We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 142 MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
End of an era
Bridget Sloan won the NCAA 
all-around title in her ﬁ  nal meet, pg. 13
Making prom fabulous, one girl at a time
Gainesville high-school student wins prom giveaway, pg. 3
Students told to keep on dreaming
A motivational speaker talked to students, pg. 5A heaven for horses
A local farm provides a forever home for rescues, pgs. 8-9
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Student Government won’t revisit the 
Student Body President’s nominees for UF’s 
Supreme Court, a committee ruled Sunday evening.
Ben Weiner (Impact), the chair of the Ju-
diciary Committee, ruled against a motion to hear nominees for the court from Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines because of his interpretation of the Rules and Procedures of the Student Senate. Because the nomina-tions weren’t emailed by noon Friday, they 
weren’t considered for the agenda.
“It’s the same process we’ve had in the 
past,” Weiner said.
Noon is not written as the deadline in SG’s 
rules and procedures.
Per the SG codes, legislation must be sent 
in two days before committee meetings. In the 
Student Body constitution, nominees aren’t categorized as legislation.Padron-Rasines emailed the Senate on 
Monday, stating she was going to reappoint 
the two nominees for the court.
Ricardo Sabater (Access), a committee 
member, argued Monday’s email notiﬁ  ed the 
committee.
Toward the end of the meeting, Ford Dwyer 
(Access), a committee member, attempted to overturn Weiner’s decision.Weiner argued the meeting needed to end 
at 6 p.m. to allow the Replacement and Agen-
da Committee to meet.
He adjourned the meeting. He said it wasn’t 
fair to keep the other committee waiting.
Nicholas Gurney, the UF SG solicitor gen-
eral, said Weiner shouldn’t have been allowed 
to adjourn the meeting before the motion was decided due to parliamentary procedure.
“Robert’s Rule (of Order) is to allow every-
one to have a voice, and that voice was taken 
away,” he said. 
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org  SG Supreme Court nominees not reconsidered
CAMPUS
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Two historic buildings on Uni-
versity Avenue will be rebuilt in the 
next two years.
The Institute of Black Culture 
and La Casita will be torn down 
and redone, said Mary Kay Caro-
dine, the assistant vice president of Student Affairs. The two buildings suffer from mold, termites, mois-ture and structural damage.
Construction on the buildings 
should start by January 2017, she said. They are planning to ﬁ  nish in Fall 2017.
It will cost $3.3 million to re-
build both buildings, with funding from Florida’s Capital Improvement Trust Fund, Carodine said. The or-ganizations will each have their own building, but the two will be connected.
While construction is underway next year, programs held in the buildings will move to the Multicul-tural and Diversity Affairs center in 
the Reitz Union, Carodine said.
Along with ﬁ  xing mold and 
moisture problems, the new build-
ings will have new furniture and a new courtyard, she said. They will also include new wheelchair ramps and elevators to make the buildings more accessible.
“It’s meant to be a home, a re-
treat,” Carodine said.
Steven Baldizon, a UF political 
science sophomore, said he hopes the two buildings won’t lose their cozy atmospheres.
“I still want it to be warm,” the 
20-year-old said. “I still want it to have that same feeling of coming in where you feel at home and you 
can relax.”  
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgLa Casita, Institute of 
Black Culture rebuilding 
THE CAR CAN REACH 80 MPH.
By Stephanie Belina
Alligator Contributing Writer
Benjamin Boulch will race a blue-and-or-
ange car as he represents UF this May.
He is one of four drivers who will race 
Gator Motorsports’ Formula-style racecar at 
the Formula Society of Automotive Engineers Competition at the Michigan International Speedway from May 11 to May 14. They’ll compete against 120 teams from around the world.
The group ripped off a black sheet covering 
their car as they revealed it to about 50 people Saturday at UF’s New Engineering Building.
More than 30 team members worked on 
the car for about one year, Boulch, a UF me-chanical engineering junior, said. They had a budget of about $90,000 to build it.
He worked on the car for ﬁ  ve hours a day, 
six days a week, the 20-year-old said. It weighs about 67 pounds and can reach about 80 mph.
This year, they added wings to the front 
and rear of the car, he said. This keeps it low-er to the ground, which prevents the car from rolling over.
Stickers of the team’s sponsors, includ-
ing Boeing and PDQ, cover the car, as well as a large black “2” sticker that represents the team’s overall place last year. It was the highest the team has ever placed, said Reagan Fuhr, the president of Gator Motorsports.
After the competition ended in May 2015, 
they started designing. In the Fall, they be-gan building and manufacturing the car, the 20-year-old said. By Spring Break, the team 
was testing and driving the car. UF group to race in Michigan for Formula competition  
SEE MOTORSPORTS,  PAGE 4It wasn’t included on the agenda
“Robert’s Rule (of Order) is to allow 
everyone to have a voice, and that voice 
was taken away.”
Nicholas Gurney
UF SG solicitor general
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
FROGGER
UF public health graduate student Aleshia Sirmons, 24, ﬂ  ings a rubber frog toward a lily pad  at GatorNights 
on Friday. “(The game) was very hard; you have to strategize before you start this, ” Sirmons said.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement in China
The UF International Center in-vites faculty to attend a work-shop on academic engagement 
in China on Wednesday from 10 
a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in the Large Conference Room at the UF International Center. The forum will consist of two different pan-els: a regulatory one and a pro-grammatic one. Panel one, led by Dr. Angel Kwolek-Folland of the Office of the Provost and Ana 
Spiguel of the General Counsel 
Office will address administrative issues. Danling Fu of the College of Education and Yuncong Li of the UF Tropical Research & Education Center will discuss faculty experiences in panel two. The discussion, moderated by Dean Leonardo Villalón, dean of 
the UF International Center, will 
be centered on the questions, “What are our goals for academic engagement with China?” and, “What support is needed for ac-complishing these goals?” Please register at Eventbrite.com (search by event title). For more informa-tion, contact Alexis Weisman or 
call 352-273-1537.
Chocolate, Beer and Ecological 
ConservationOn Thursday at 6 p.m., you can 
join the Belize Foundation for Research and Environmental Education (BFREE) at First Magnitude Brewery and support 
its mission toward ecological con-
servation. BFREE is a nonprofit headquartered in Gainesville that promotes education, con-servation and research via their biological field station in the foot-hills of the Maya Mountains in southern Belize. For more than 20 years, BFREE has worked 
to “conserve the biodiversity 
and cultural heritage of Belize.”  Please come support their mis-sion, learn more about the nature of their work and, of course, in-dulge in the handmade Belizean chocolate and local craft beer that will be served. Discounts will ap-ply when $20 donations are made 
($10 for students with ID).  There 
will also be a silent auction that is open for bidding.  More infor-mation can be found at facebook.com/bfreebelize or at bfreebz.org
Samanth Subramanian to speak
Gators for Asha and the UF Department of Journalism pres-
ent a talk Friday from 6 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. at the Mathews Suite in the Reitz Union. The title for the talk is, “What are the sort of stories that journalists and nonfiction writers can tell from India today?” Narrative journal-ist Samanth Subramanian will explain the challenges and re-wards of plying his craft in India. The event is free and is open to all. Coffee and snacks will be pro-
vided during the session.
Passover Seder
The Morriston Baptist Church 
will be hosting a Passover Seder on Saturday at 6 p.m. It is free, and a full kosher meal is pro-vided. Please call 352-528-4080 to RSVP or to ask questions.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 142
HIGH  81° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Brittany Spino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Finding the perfect prom dress 
is a milestone for some high- 
school students, but paying a 
hefty price can be unrealistic for 
their families. 
On Friday, UF alumnae Gabri-
elle Burch and Brooke Cantrell, 
both 24, awarded one student 
a new outﬁ  t as part of the third annual Being Fab for Prom give-away. 
This year’s winner, East-
side High School junior Naiesha Baker, received a dress, a clutch purse, jewelry and shoes. She also earned a makeover and $25 
for dinner.
“I really didn’t think I was go-
ing to be able to go,” said 18-year-
old Baker, who stood in a ﬂ  owing red dress and sparkling heels at 
the ﬁ  re-and-ice themed dance Fri-
day.
“I feel so fortunate to have 
these girls help me out like this,” 
she said. 
Burch and Cantrell said they 
pay for the giveaway each year, 
which also includes a makeover for two runner-ups. 
This year’s prizes cost the duo 
a total of about $400, Cantrell said. 
Burch said the giveaway was started in honor of her grand-mother, who she said was known 
for giving back to her community 
in Tallahassee. 
“I thought this would be a 
great way to start to help out young women who need guid-
ance and support,” Burch said. 
Ten students applied this year, 
she said, and the women chose 
Baker because she has maintained a GPA above 4.0 and played var-
sity basketball and track since her 
freshman year.
Despite her credentials, Baker 
said the giveaway seemed too 
good to be true.
“At ﬁ  rst I thought it was fake 
that I had won,” she said. “I had 
to ask my mom if this was for real.”   
RIGHT:
This year’s winner received a 
dress, a clutch purse, jewelry and shoes. The winner also earned a makeover and $25 for dinner.Making prom fabulous, one girl at a time  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Eastside High School junior Naiesha Baker poses for a pho-to with the outﬁ  t she won from the Being Fab for Prom give-away, which was started by UF alumnae Gabrielle Burch and Brooke Cantrell. 
Courtesy to the Alligator“I really didn’t think I was 
going to be able to go. I feel so 
fortunate to have these girls 
help me out like this.”
Naiesha Baker
Eastside High School junior4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
PLAYERS FROM UF’S FOOTBALL 
TEAM ALSO TAUGHT THE KIDS 
TO THROW AND PASS.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
When Kevin Edwards shouted “hard 
work” on Saturday, about 30 children 
chanted back “dedication” at Fred Cone 
Park in east Gainesville.
The UF second-year law student was 
one of 12 who volunteered at the UF Levin 
School of Law’s Entertainment and Sports 
Law Society’s first “It Takes A Village” 
youth football camp. 
Players from UF’s football team taught 
third- through eighth-grade students throws and stances.
Students played at the free football 
camp from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The event aimed to encourage students to realize their potential, said Jamal Hicks, the soci-
ety’s social chair and a UF third-year law 
student.
Gator Domino’s and Wal-Mart spon-
sored the event. The children were from the Boys and Girls Club and the Reichert 
House, an all-boys after-school commu-
nity center.  “We hope to use sports as a mechanism 
to connect with the kids so we can pass our ultimate message, which is to stay in school,” Hicks, 24, said.
Players taught the children wide-receiv-
er drills, how to catch the ball, ways to run more quickly and stance.
“These kids in East Gainesville admire 
UF football players,” Hicks said. “They can learn a lot from them.”
Hicks said the law students hoped to 
talk to the children about education in ad-dition to sports.
“That’s the core age when we can get 
through to them and get our message across,” he said.
Edwards, 27, said he hoped the event 
encouraged discipline.
“When the kids had camaraderie and 
they were enjoying drills, that was the most special part for me,” he said.
He said he volunteered at the camp to 
give back to the community.
“We don’t just come to Gainesville to 
come to school,” he said. “We want to give back too.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgUF law students empower youths through football
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator Staff
Twelve UF law students volunteered at the UF Levin School of Law’s Entertainment and 
Sports Law Society’s first “It T akes A Village” youth football camp, where players from UF’s football team taught third- through eighth-grade students throws and stances.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested two 
men early Saturday morning in con-
nection with a sexual battery that oc-curred hours earlier.
Police charged Garrett Robert 
Statler, 23, with the reported attack.
Authorities also charged Jonathan Richard Tait, 29, for obstructing jus-tice after they said he prevented the woman from calling police.
Both are listed in UF’s student di-
rectory.
Tait met the woman Friday night 
at The Rowdy Reptile bar. They left at about 10:30 p.m. and walked to College Park apartments, according to a police report.After briefly leaving the apart-
ment to buy condoms, Tait and the woman returned to have what is de-
scribed as consensual sex, according 
to the report.
Tait then left the room, at which 
point Statler walked inside and be-gan to have sex with the woman, who lied on her stomach, unaware the man was not Tait, according to the report. The woman then turned around and screamed that Statler had raped her, according to the report.
She then chased Statler and 
scratched his face, according to the report. Tait then knocked a phone from the woman’s hand when she threatened to call police, according to the report. Statler was arrested on a charge of sexual battery and taken to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $250,000 bond.
Tait was arrested on a charge of 
obstructing justice and taken to the jail where, as of press time, he re-mains in lieu of a $100,000 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.org
The team has placed within the top 10 the 
past three years, the UF aerospace engineering 
junior said. 
They hope to do better than last year and 
take first place, Fuhr said.
The car will be placed in a trailer and driven 
to Michigan, she said. After the 18-hour drive, the car must go through a technical inspection 
before the team can race it.
Fuhr said because students are driving cars 
built by other students, they need to take every 
precaution.
Fuhr said she prefers building to driving.
“I’ve driven the car once,” she said. “Never 
again.”
Boulch said he’s excited to be one of the 
four drivers racing in the competition.
He said every team member can try out to 
drive, but they choose the fastest, who have 
the most potential to win.
With no previous experience driving, 
Boulch said he learned through practice and 
persistence.
He said by building the car and driving, he 
gets to be involved from start to finish.
“I think you’re naturally good at what you 
like,” he said.MOTORSPORTS,  from pg 1Gator Motorsports is aiming to win first place this year
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gator Motorsports project manager David Kanner poses for a photo inside Gator Motorsports’ Formula-style racecar, which will 
compete in the Formula Society of Automotive Engineers Competition at the Michigan International Speedway in May.
GPD: Police arrest two students in connection with sexual batteryMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
A ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thAlligator Advertisers 
The Alligator will not be publishing fromA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thThursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9th
The Deadline for Tuesday, May 12th is
Friday, May 6th by 4:00 pmFriday, May 6th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed 
Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume 
publication again on 
Tuesday, May 10thAlligator Advertisers Alligator Advertisers 
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
By Isabel Bonnet
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nelson Bustamante motivated 
50 UF students to dream big on 
Friday.
UF’s Vensa, the Venezuelan 
Student Association, brought the animator, who won four Suncoast Emmy Awards, to be the group’s annual speaker. He told students his steps for making dreams come true and how he became an ani-mator.
Every day, Bustamante said he 
repeats Maickel Melamed’s quote, “Today we start again; we start dreaming big.” The quote inspires him each day.
He started his speech by tell-
ing students his ﬁ  rst step is “ﬁ  nd 
your objective.” As he showed 
a video of himself as a child, he told the audience he had known he wanted to animate since he 
was 12 years old.
He said people shouldn’t listen 
to others’ opinions. His grandfa-
ther wanted him to be a doctor, but Bustamante decided to study 
social communications in Ven-
ezuela instead. 
He said he thinks the fear of 
failure can prevent students from 
dreaming.
After he graduated, he worked as an animator for the show “Atrévete a soñar” (Dare to Dream), in which participants met their idols, including Shaki-ra. Working here inspired him to help others.
Ricardo Remis, 20, the presi-
dent of Vensa, said Bustamante motivated and inspired students during ﬁ  nals. He said the speaker needed no introduction because of his prominence.
“His message to ‘dare to 
dream’ is something all students, Venezuelans or otherwise, can apply to their lives,” the UF tele-communication and business ju-nior said.
Bustamante told students not 
to give up on their dreams.
“Fake it until you make it,”  he 
said. Students told to keep on dreaming  
LOCAL
By Sydney Denninger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Saturday marked the beginning of a weeklong art 
series.
From today until Saturday, residents can watch 
artists paint the springs and rivers around High 
Springs, Florida, during the Santa Fe Springs Plein Air Paintout, said Tina Corbett, the event organizer and a member of the Florida Humanities Council.
Paintings will be on display at Rum 138 gallery in 
May, Lanza Gallery and Art Supplies in June and the High Springs Historical Society Museum from July 16 to Aug. 27, she said.
Corbett said Blue Springs Park in High Springs 
hosted painters for seven hours Saturday, and 30 to 100 people are expected to attend each of the pro-ceeding events.
About 15 artists will be painting at various loca-
tions throughout the week, she said. Ginnie Springs Outdoors will host the ﬁ  nal public viewing day Satur-day from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
A full list of dates, locations and times is available on the event’s Facebook page. Ticket prices vary, and visitors must also pay for park entry when applicable.
Annie Pais, the executive director for Florida’s 
Eden, said the sustainability-focused nonproﬁ  t orga-nization brought the concept to Alachua County in 2002.
“Plein air is a type of landscape painting that is 
painted actually out in the fresh air,” she said.
Pais said the ﬁ  rst event was held at a single loca-
tion before it grew over the years.
“Thirty painters came to paint for six days at the 
ﬁ  rst Kanapaha Paintout held at Kanapaha Botanical Gardens,” she said. “It was amazing.”
Pais said the week is meant to showcase a tradi-
tion of plein air painting in North Florida.
The crowd, she said, is usually comprised of “cul-
tured locals and families,” especially those with chil-dren who are interested in art.
Corbett said Alachua County is considered the 
southeastern hub for plein air events.
“The warm weather and forest-like feel North 
Florida offers makes the paintings so uncommon,” she said.  A week of outdoor painting 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Nelson Bustamante, a Venezuelan animator and four-time Emmy winner, gives a motivational speech 
from his “Atrévete a soñar” (Dare to Dream) series on Friday night in the Reitz Union. About 50 Latino students attended the event.
It was a guest speakerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Rising on-campus conservatism: my new optimism 
Picture this: You’re in one of your po-
litical science, history or philosophy classes. Things are going well until the professor asks a politically charged question to the class. You know you’re 
in the extreme ideological minority, because the professor and 98 percent of the class hold the same beliefs.
What do you do? Do you state your views 
and face the imminent onslaught of criticism, judgment and condemnation? Or do you keep quiet and let your ideologically lock-stepped classmates spew earnestly held but factually inaccurate rhetoric?
For many conservatives on campus, this happens 
more often than not. We’re a very small minority at UF that constantly has to deal with professors, classmates and caped communists looking to disregard our views.   
But luckily for us, a new student group is trying to 
change that. Keira Lyn Hornyak, the Florida Field direc-tor and UF chapter leader of Turning Point USA, is lead-ing the charge for conservatism on campus.
Although she was initially hesitant to start a Turning 
Point chapter in Gainesville, Hornyak believes champi-
oning conservative beliefs and at times “enlightening” 
her fellow peers has been “completely worth it.”
She started the group’s UF chapter to “open a dia-
logue that hasn’t been there for a while. You don’t see a lot of conservatism on campus.” She tables on Turlington Plaza, where she bravely faces off against UF’s united proletarian front and conducts a few meetings.
Now, as a frequent attendee of infrequent conser-
vative gatherings on campus, I decided to go to one of 
Turning Point’s meetings last week. The meeting room in 
Matherly Hall was ﬁ  lled with ﬂ  iers, posters and booklets promoting truth, justice and the American way. I mean, Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson was on one poster, so that has to be true. The meeting even had a self-professed “social democrat” in attendance.
The event focused on conservative activism on cam-
pus with a special emphasis on promoting and defending capitalism. After each well-constructed point Hornyak made on behalf of the free-market system — and there were a lot of them — the social democrat opined with his views. Con-servatives know liberals like to hear them-
selves talk.
Impressively, Hornyak, as well as the 20 
students in attendance, continually refuted 
each one of the social democrat’s penetrat-ing questions. This happened for an hour. I haven’t seen this kind of takedown since the 
1984 presidential election.
Immediately, I knew this group was special. I haven’t 
seen a group this smart on campus in a while. And when 
you’re in the ideological minority, you have to be able 
to defend your beliefs all the time. Remember the class-room scenario?
Not only is Hornyak winning over minds with cold 
hard facts, she’s also winning over hearts, especially when she talks with foreign students. “Their faces light up when they see our table,” a table ﬁ  lled with signs like “#BigGovSucks” and “I Love Capitalism.” Some of these students come from countries like Venezuela and 
Cuba that have seen the negative effects of big govern-
ment. They’re so happy to see a group embracing their beliefs. Big government is often the reason they’re now in the U.S.
I asked Hornyak if she was optimistic about the future 
of conservatism on campus. As a leader of one of the rising center-right groups on campus, she was unsurpris-ingly optimistic. But after seeing the Turning Point crew in action, I ﬁ  nd myself more optimistic, too.
Hornyak’s leading a group of conservatives more in-
telligent, impassioned and willing to shake up campus to an extent I haven’t seen before. They love what they’re doing and are happily facing UF’s liberal majority.
All I can say is liberals better watch out. Your days in 
the majority might be numbered.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His 
column appears on Mondays.Do not go 
gentle into that 
sleepless night
Dear readers, this beautiful Monday marks our collec-tive descent into the abyss. Many of us students ﬁ  nd ourselves waking up to the academic reality we’ve been trying to ignore since Spring Break. Papers, ﬁ  -nals, deadlines: It all comes down to these next two 
weeks.
You might be shooting for that 4.0, or maybe you’re just 
trying to get by after a really rough semester. Either way, we at the Alligator have your back. We’ve done our best all semester to give you useful and accurate information. Now, as the end rushes toward us all at full-throttle, we extend to you our best wishes and reassurance.
“How did I get here?” you might think to yourself. Six 
weeks seemed like so much time between Spring Break and 
now. What happened? In times like these, it’s natural to di-
rect blame outward. Sure you can point toward this person or that organization draining all of your time. Perhaps you blame the commies or those blasted redcoat imperialists or better yet: Steve Harvey. First he gambled with the soul of our democracy by ﬂ  ubbing Miss Universe. Now he’s coming for our grades.
Kidding aside, we can all look back individually at how 
we wound up in this academic hysteria. Maybe it was that 
Netﬂ  ix session you said would last only two episodes but 
quickly turned into a weekend-long binge. Maybe it was that one, two, perhaps even ﬁ  ve parties too many. Don’t worry, we’re right there with you. Time management, self-reliance and discipline are hard skills to develop — don’t beat yourself up about it. If growing up were easy, there’d be no need to have this time in college to ﬁ  gure things out and test life’s waters.
Procrastination is the slyest of devils. It tempts us into 
thinking we can stretch time to accommodate our individ-ual circumstances. All the while, we forget the fundamen-tal truth, what physicists have failed to uncover for years, the bombshell Edward Snowden really unearthed from the NSA’s clutches. The fastest speed in the universe isn’t that of light, but rather these dreaded deadlines we have before us. So it’s no doubt this task of catching up and ﬁ  nishing the semester strong is daunting.
But in such times of uncertainty and self-doubt, we at the 
Alligator encourage you to consider Rocky Balboa’s words: “(Life) ain’t about how hard you hit. It’s about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward — how much you can take, and keep moving forward. That’s how winning is done.”
So, readers, we say to you, give ‘em hell these next two 
weeks. Whether you’re neck-deep in assignments or in the minority that actually feel prepared for the storm to come, make a statement. Show these classes and exams what 
you’ve got. You’d be surprised at the kind of counterstrike 
you can muster when you stand up to the heat and ﬁ  ght with ﬁ  re, against all odds. And if you come up short in the end, make sure your failure comes not from a lack of effort. Go down with dignity, to paraphrase Jack Black in “School of Rock,” with a guitar in your hands and rock in your heart.
Do not go gentle into that sleepless night. Caffeine should 
brew and brave at close of day. Cram, cram against the dy-
ing of the light.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“Because sex with-
out it isn’t sex.
It’s rape.”
These lines 
come from a vid-
eo from the “It’s On Us” cam-
paign, launched by the Obama 
administration to promote con-
sent. The video, which featured many celebrities, emphasizes the need for freely given consent. Like most issues, this has fallen prey to par-
tisanship.
When asked to describe a hypothetical 
sexual assault, someone might describe a 
dark alley. A stranger. Maybe some type 
of weapon. This isn’t always an accurate 
and representative idea of how sexual as-sault actually happens. According to the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network, four out of ﬁ  ve assaults are committed by 
someone the victim knows.
Social problems can only be solved 
if there’s widespread recognition of said 
problems. Sexual assault is no different. 
In any other crime, the problem is the 
perpetrator — that murderer shouldn’t have murdered that person, that robber shouldn’t have robbed that person, etc. But when it’s a sexual assault that gets 
committed, somehow that message is lost. 
The burden falls on the victims to pro-tect themselves from unwanted attention. That person shouldn’t have worn that, 
said that, been there, been alone, etc. This 
creates an additional burden for survivors to overcome: the idea they “attracted” the rapist to them. On college campuses, sex-ual assault can pose a particular problem, 
given that college administrations must 
ﬁ  gure out how to deal with the issue.
If you think UF is the exception, you’re 
wrong. While Florida State University was 
in the headlines for their treatment of 
Jameis Winston, sexual assault happens here in Gainesville, too — to people of all genders. According to the results of the UF Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault 
and Sexual Misconduct, “One in ﬁ  ve UF 
female undergraduate students indicated they have experienced some type of sex-ual assault — ranging from sexual touch-
ing such as groping to unwanted penetra-tion — since entering UF. Five 
percent of male undergraduates reported the same.”
After a sexual assault or rape 
happens, the survivor may not feel comfortable coming for-ward. According to Investi-
gateWest, self-blame and confu-
sion can cause women to delay or not report an assault at all, 
and 62 percent of sexual assaults are drug facilitated.
Ultimately, this should not be a political 
issue. There needs to be more widespread education about consent, including what counts and does not count as consent. 
Problems that mostly affect women might 
seem petty to men: “Well, if they just did this or that, they would be ﬁ  ne!” It’s well known the current Republican presiden-tial candidates have less than friendly 
policies toward women, whether it’s their 
bodily autonomy in ending a pregnancy or just plainly objectifying them.
Can women really do much to prevent 
sexual assault? This past week, John Ka-sich showed he buys into victim blaming. A student from St. Lawrence University asked: “What are you going to do in of-ﬁ  ce as president to help me feel safer and 
more secure regarding sexual violence, 
harassment and rape?”
While his response began with sensi-
ble suggestions for policy on campus, he 
added one last bit of advice: “Don’t go to 
parties where there is a lot of alcohol.”
Kasich is often painted as the safe and 
best alternative to Donald Trump or Ted Cruz. Perhaps he is, but these remarks are 
troubling nonetheless. And that they came 
from a “moderate” presidential candidate reﬂ  ects just how widespread the notion that sexual assault is easily solvable, if 
women would just follow a few rules, re-
ally is in our society.
Coming up with such simple solutions 
to sexual assault is condescending and wrong. There’s no safe version of misog-
yny. Women across the political spectrum 
deserve better.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-
days.It really is on us — consent and assaultColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgAlthough Wednesday is 
the last day of classes, it doesn’t seem long ago 
we were beginning the 
Fall semester and kick-
ing off the school year. It may be time for students to say goodbye 
to a lot, but at least there is one 
thing we can all look forward to leaving behind: on-campus din-ing.
A big problem with on-campus dining is 
something called “Fall-Spring commitment,” in which students must have a meal plan in Spring if they had one the previous Fall. So even if students realize on-campus dining 
isn’t for them for various reasons — like if 
they actually enjoy food — they are forced to pay thousands of dollars more for no logical reason. It seems like Aramark is just trying to take money from students, especially con-
sidering all ﬂ  ex bucks not used by students 
at the end of each semester disappear.
As more than hundreds of unused ﬂ  ex 
bucks will potentially vanish, UF’s Mitch-
ell Kaye and Flex Philanthropy are holding 
their second-annual food drive to put un-used ﬂ  ex bucks to a good cause. On Tues-day and Wednesday, students will be able to use their ﬂ  ex bucks to donate non-perishable 
goods to the Flex Philanthropy Food Drive at 
the Rawlings Hall P.O.D. Market.
According to its Facebook page, Flex Phi-
lanthropy’s 2015 Food Drive raised more 
than $400 worth of food, but there’s no rea-
son the UF community should stop there. If more events made it accessible for students to help feed the hungry, UF could go beyond what’s currently possible to curb Gaines-
ville’s plaguing problem that too large of 
a proportion of the population suffer from hunger.
There are two ways UF can become a 
leading university in preventing food from going to waste. One way is for students to have the ability to donate at P.O.D. Markets year-round. Yes, students could theoretically ﬁ  nd local, off-campus food pantries to direct-
ly donate if they wanted, but keep in mind 
most students are on the meal plan in the ﬁ  rst place because they live on-campus and do not have easy access to transportation. All 
students need is a bin at each P.O.D. Market to donate the food they buy.
There’s another way students 
could easily diminish hunger in Gainesville, and it pertains to 
the dining halls themselves. As students could theoretically use money at P.O.D. Markets to do-
nate goods without assistance, 
the same could be done using dining halls as an intermediary. 
Students could grab a to-go box, ﬁ  ll it with mounds of food and head a couple of blocks 
from the dining hall to easily ﬁ  nd someone 
hungry. And to mitigate any potential logis-tical issues, UF could take a page out of the playbook of organizations like the Food Re-
covery Network.
With more than 100 chapters across the 
country, the Food Recovery Network orga-nizes students to keep uneaten campus food 
from dumpsters and instead facilitate getting the food to local food pantries. Since 2011, the Food Recovery Network has recovered 
about 1.2 million pounds of food. Efforts like 
these are essential when considering how college campuses collectively throw out a total of 22 million pounds of uneaten food each year, according to an article by NPR. It’s no coincidence one in seven Americans 
go hungry; it ties back in part to the start 
rates of food waste in our country. We need to act nationally and locally.
Flex Philanthropy gets the ball rolling 
toward solving hunger in Gainesville. Sure, 
some of these suggestions may be a bit difﬁ  -
cult to pull off. However, I feel it is important that Aramark just give students a chance to 
put these policies in place, because people 
go hungry every day.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical 
engineering freshman. His column usually 
appears on Wednesdays.Flex Philanthropy food driveColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
“Flex Philanthropy 
gets the ball rolling 
toward solving hunger 
in Gainesville.”By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Not far from the relentless traf-
fic on Interstate 75, animals find 
peace at Mill Creek Farm’s Retire-
ment Home for Horses.
When they hear the hum of 
Mary Gregory’s golf cart, even 
the blind horses press their noses 
through a nearby fence and wait 
for the inevitable carrot.
Mary Gregory first envisioned 
Mill Creek Farm with her late hus-band, Peter Gregory, when they 
lived in England during the 1950s.
Just outside of London, she 
said, a haven allowed horses to 
rest in between hauling carts of 
milk and bread.
“They would have a horrible 
life,” she said. “They never saw 
grass. We had always said, ‘Oh, if we had the money we would like 
to do something like that.’”
She met Peter Gregory at the 
University of London before they 
later entered the hotel business, 
living everywhere from Portugal to Jamaica.
In 1983, the couple decided to 
spend all their money on a farm in 
Alachua, where 135 horses, along with a donkey and a mule, now live.    
“We’ve always loved animals,” 
she said, “but we went a step fur-ther. We wanted to save them and keep them.”
The farm — a 335-acre plot 
of land about 30 minutes from Gainesville — has never turned a rescue horse away, Mary Gregory said.
The oldest living horse, Dakota, 
is 43 years old and came to the farm in 1995.
After forming a nonprofit orga-
nization and deeding their prop-
erty to the horses, the Gregorys 
ensured their dream would outlive themselves.
“It took quite a bit of work with 
lawyers to get everything the way 
Peter and I wanted it,” she said. 
“We live in it until we die, and then the house goes to the horses, too.”•   •   •
When Peter Gregory passed 
away two years ago, the Gregorys’ youngest son, Paul Gregory, aban-
doned his real estate job in South 
Florida and joined his mother.
Paul Gregory remains at the 
farm, where he continues his fa-
ther’s work.
“I never dreamt that he would 
handle the horses like he did,” she 
said. “He’s done an absolute won-derful job.”
Paul Gregory said the farm is a 
sanctuary.
“Once you start doing some-
thing like this, you kind of lose 
track of the outside world, to be 
honest with you,” he said.
He said there are many admi-
rable rescue organizations, but his family’s farm is one of the few 
places where horses can find a per-
manent home.
Visitors and sponsors allow the 
farm to stay open with donations.
Every penny, Paul Gregory said, 
goes toward paying for grain, vet-erinarian bills and maintenance. He said each horse costs about 
$250 per month.
His mother, Mary Gregory, said 
she knows the name and story of 
each horse on the farm.
Every day, she drives a golf cart 
around the paddocks and mead-ows with a bag of carrots and her 10-year-old basset hound, Lady Guinevere.
“I’ve always been terrible and 
forget people’s names, but not my dogs or horses,” she said.
•   •   •
Mill Creek only has one stipula-
tion: No horses from private own-ers.
The farm will take retired police 
horses and racing horses, or horses that were previously abandoned and left to starve.
Sgt. Possum, a horse who re-
tired from the U.S. Army, arrived with a certificate of appreciation from President Barack Obama.
“It’s hanging up in the chicken 
coop where the washrooms are,” she said.
The farm, located at 20307 NW 
County Road 235A, Alachua, Flor-ida, opens its gates to the public from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Satur-days.
The entrance fee is two carrots, 
and up to 500 visitors come on any given weekend, Mary Gregory said.
Throughout the week, volun-
teers help Mary and Paul Gregory with upkeep and grooming. Volun-teers come and go, Paul Gregory said, and the farm always needs more help.
Lynne Brennan started volun-
teering at the farm in July 2012. She cleans the farm and grooms the animals three days a week, and 
she works the welcome kiosk each 
Saturday.
Brennan learned about Mill 
Creek from an article about a res-cued teacup horse.
“I called that morning, came out 
the next day and I’ve been coming back ever since,” she said. “This truly is a horse paradise. I have so 
many people say to me, ’Can I re-
tire here too?’ It’s just a heaven on earth for horses.”
•   •   •
For every oak tree at Mill Creek, 
a horse once stood nearby.
Trees that reach more than 10 
feet tall share soil with scrawny trees planted less than a month ago, each signifying a life lost.
Mary Gregory plants the trees to 
remember.
Horses and dogs are buried in 
the Field of Dreams, and almost 
all the animals die of old age, she 
said.
After several decades, Mary 
Gregory said she still gets sad ev-ery time an animal passes on.
“A part of you seems to die ev-
ery time,” she said.
Mary Gregory said even fleeting 
guests form a connection with the 
farm and its residents.
Each year, she said, a group of 
equine dentists visits the property 
with a group of students for two weeks.
“When they were here the last 
time, they said, ‘I don’t think you realize it, but we go to just about every state in the U.S., and there 
is not another place like this,’” she 
said.
Mary Gregory, who only leaves 
the property to visit Publix, said friends often ask if she gets bored 
doing the same thing every year.
She responds with a smile.
“Oh, I could never get bored if I 
tried,” Mary Gregory said. 
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
Molly Donovan / Alligator Staff
The sign memorializes the late Mill Creek Farm founder Peter Gregory, who started the horse retirement home with his wife, Mary, in 1983.
A heaven for horses
A local farm provides a forever home for rescues“I’ve always been 
terrible and forget 
people’s names, 
but not my dogs 
or horses.”
Mary Gregory
Mill Creek Farm co-founder
LEFT: 
Lynne Brennan, a volunteer 
at Mill Creek since July 2012, greets a visitor at the farm. Brennan typically works the welcome kiosk on Saturdays.
BELOW: 
Cheyenne, a 30-year-old mixed-breed horse, was res-cued by Okeechobee Animal Control when she was found thin and frail walking down a county road.
Photos by Molly Donovan / Alligator StaffMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer 
$300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1203 & 1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        5-10-16-6-2
Great Family Home For Rent 4BR/3BA 2,344 sq ft Sterling Place at Blues Creek 5007 NW 69th PL. Wood & ceramic flrs, all appliances, close to Talbot Elem. $1,995/mo call or text 352-494-3277       5-10-16-6-2
Beautiful Condo for Rent in Casablanca 2635 SW 35th Pl unit 1101 new wood flrs in BR new ceramic tile in LR 2BR 1-1/2 BA water incl. Location close to UF, shops & downtown $750/mo call/text 352-494-3277    5-10-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE 5 Bed/ 2 Bath, Great Downtown location, 2 balconies, wood floors, great character. 320 NW 1st St. $2,500/mo. Call 352-377-3110 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu        4-20-16-5-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsFOR SALE Well Loved, Well maintained, 
& Well Raced Tri Gear
1 55 cm LITESPEED SABER TRI BIKE, 9 
sp DA, New Seat, Excellent wheels, Oval Trailing Front Brake, Ouzo Aero Pro fork, Integrated Profile Design aero bar/bull horns, 
XLab bottle holders - $950 
700C ZIP TUBULAR WHEELS 303 Front, 
404 Rear, SS blade spokes- $650700C PROTOTYPE ROLF 12 bladed spoke front wheel - $75
700C clincher tires/tubes FREE w wheel or 
bike purchase
This stuff led to 65 podium placings, I've moved on to adventure cyclingcoachallen@rehabtoracing.com or Text to 571-213-0254                    4-19-16-5-9  
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 9 BicyclesMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Cloud 9 is a busy day spa searching for happy, qualified people for our Support Staff team. Must be flexible, reliable & available at least 20 hrs per wk incl Saturdays.Great pay & discounts! Visit cloud9spa.com to ap-ply.   4-19-16-5-14Work at One of the Top
25 Small Companies in
An opportunity to help others
unleash their fullest potential
with a GHF membership.
Full job description at ghfc.com/application
Now Hiring
Full-time, Part-time Employment & Internships
4-18-16-2-14
HIRING FOR SALES POSITIONFinancial Services & Mortgage Protection.Wong Financial Services, LLCCall 352-777-6478 for interviewSend Resume mannie.wfs@gmail.com5-10-16-5-14
General ofc assistant. Pleasant home office and atmosphere. 10-15 hrs/week. Schedule flexible. $15 per hour. Required: proficiency in Excel and Word. Also required: serious at-titude and reliability.Resumes to wooten.leslie@gmail.com. 4-19-16-3-14.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
CLEANING SERVICE
Blow off debris & leaves. Clean up Inside & Out- Residence-Commercial 352-221-5708 4-20-5-15 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
1 Person to cook and clean for elderly wom-an in small apt.  Tower Oaks Glen. Must be dependable. Call 9am - 5pm 352-318-0711  5-10-16-5-4
PT experienced cleaner needed for homes/apartments/offices. Must have a reliable transportaion. Must pass drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868 4-20-5-14
Financial Asst. 15-18 hrs wkly. Detail ori-ented professional w/bookkeeping, computer and general office skills needed. Pls. email sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.  4-18-16-3-14
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#
UF women's golfer Maria 
T orres won the SEC individual title on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 16.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Check out our Florida gymnastics photo story
The Florida gymnastics team ﬁ  nished in fourth place at the NCAA 
Championships on Saturday in Fort Worth, T exas. Check out our photo story 
online at alligator.org/sports.UF'S FOURTH-PLACE FINISH 
MARKED THE LAST TIME 
BRIDGET SLOAN WILL COMPETE 
AS A GYMNAST.
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Bridget Sloan dismounted from the 
higher uneven parallel bar.
After ﬂ  ipping through the air twice and 
sticking the landing — holding her pose 
for an extra second for emphasis — she let out a yell of excitement before celebrating with her teammates and coaches.And then, it hit her.Her gymnastics career had come to an 
end.
While the Florida gymnastics team 
ﬁ  nished fourth at the NCAA Super Six on Saturday and saw its four-peat hopes 
crumble at the hands of the Oklahoma 
Sooners, Sloan capped her career the only way she knew how: on top.
“I’ve known this time was going to 
come,” Sloan said, “and I just wanted to 
have the time of my life.”
In her ﬁ  nal competitive gymnastics 
meet, Sloan posted at least a 9.9 in three 
of four events — including a meet-high 
9.9375 on her ﬁ  nal bars routine — en route to a ﬁ  rst-place 39.65 all-around 
score.
From start to ﬁ  nish, from lifting herself 
onto the balance beam to hugging ﬁ  rst-year UF head coach Jenny Rowland after ﬁ  nishing her bars routine, Saturday’s per-
formance epitomized the energy Sloan put 
on display her entire career.
“I just came in and I knew what I 
wanted,” Sloan said. “I’ve always been an athlete that once I know what I want, I’m 
going to go get it.”
Her whole career, the accolades rolled 
in.
A silver medal at the 2008 Olympics in END OF AN ERA
SEE GYM,  PAGE 14SOFTBALL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Kelly Barnhill stood in the pitcher’s circle, 
having given up a leadoff hit and a walk in the 
top of the second inning.
With no outs and runners on ﬁ  rst and sec-
ond, the freshman riﬂ  ed a strike.
A low line drive ﬂ  ew off Kassidy Zeri-
ngue’s bat and straight into Barnhill’s glove.
The freshman turned and ﬁ  red to second 
baseman Nicole DeWitt to double up the run-
ner. DeWitt then threw it to ﬁ  rst to complete a 
triple play — the third in school history.
“Biggest play of the series,” coach Tim 
Walton said. “Completely changed the mo-mentum.
“If you’d have told me that we’re gonna 
turn a triple play on one of the fastest players they have with our riseball pitcher, I would’ve said, ‘Yeah, right.’”
Timely pitching was a huge part of No. 1 
Florida’s 3-0 win over No. 5 Louisiana-Lafay-
ette Sunday. The Gators (41-3) swept the Ra-
gin’ Cajuns (32-6) in the three-game weekend set and improved to 29-0 against non-confer-ence opponents.
Barnhill was under pressure early. Despite 
three walks and a hit in the ﬁ  rst two innings,  
though, the freshman kept ULL off the score-
board.
Meanwhile, Florida's offense got going in 
a hurry. 
With one out, DeWitt hit a pop-up into foul 
territory. ULL third baseman Kara Gremillion looked into the sun but couldn’t shield her eyes as the ball fell harmlessly to the ground.
She’d regret giving DeWitt another chance.
With a full count, the sophomore slapped 
a single through to right-center ﬁ  eld. After a 
Janell Wheaton inﬁ  eld hit and a ground out put the runners on second and third, senior Aubree Munro stepped up. No. 1 Gators 
sweep No. 5 Ragin' Cajuns
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Southeastern Conference 
features nine teams in the top-
25, including the reigning NCAA 
champion in Vanderbilt.
Only one team has beaten 
them all.No. 4 Florida (18-2, 13-0 SEC) 
defeated Tennessee (8-16, 1-12 
SEC) 4-0 in Knoxville at Barks-dale Stadium on Sunday to fin-
ish the season with a perfect 
conference slate.
“It is just a satisfying time 
for our team right now. I am 
really proud of the way they have competed,” coach Roland 
Thornqvist said in a release. 
“They have been tough, done 
it with class and represented 
Florida perfectly throughout this 
campaign.”
Florida secured the doubles 
point like they have all but two 
times this season.After No. 46 Peggy Porter and 
Spencer Liang retired in their match against MC Meredith and 
Ashlee Boles, Florida’s other two doubles teams picked up the win.
No. 5 Brooke Austin and 
Kourtney Keegan defeated Tif-fany Tavares and Margo Taylor 6-3 and No. 64 Anna Danilina and Brianna Morgan defeated 
Brittany Lind and Ashley Bon-gart 6-2.
In singles, the Gators were 
dominant.
Liang defeated Taylor in 
straight sets without giving up 
a game to put the Gators ahead 
by two. 
With the win, Liang improved 
to 8-1 in dual-match singles.
No. 43 Keegan was nearly as 
impressive, only letting up one Florida women's tennis team ﬁ  nishes undefeated in SEC
Gators compete in the SEC tourney nextSEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 15
Bridget Sloan celebrates after 
completing the ﬁ  nal vault of her gymnastics career on Saturday at the NCAA Gymnastics Championships in Fort Worth, T exas. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
Beijing.
An all-around title at the 2009 
World Championships.
Nine NCAA titles — three team 
trophies and six individual hon-
ors — and eight perfect 10s over her four years at UF.
Yet while the awards and hon-
ors point to Sloan, the senior points to her supporting cast as a large reason for her success.
“I personally couldn’t ask for a better team to surround myself with,” Sloan said. 
“It’s an honor being a part of 
their team.”
And now, the Gators face the 
task of replacing her and the rest of the senior class in Bridgette Ca-
quatto, Bianca Dancose-Giambat-
tisto and Morgan Frazier, a quar-tet of gymnasts who each brought something different to the table.
Caquatto anchored Florida’s 
ﬂ  oor lineup for three seasons and clinched the Gators’ second consecutive national title in 2014 with a then-career-high-tying 9.95.
Dancose-Giambattisto served 
as a rock on the bars rotation, competing in the event in all but the ﬁ  rst two meets of her Florida career.
Frazier worked as a leader 
from the sideline, undeterred by a foot injury that kept her off the mat during her four years.
And then there’s Sloan, the 31-
time All-American (16 NCAAs; 15 regular season) whose name sits atop just about every UF gymnas-tics record.
“I think the senior class in gen-
eral brought a leadership to this team that really helped form and make this team what it was this year,” Rowland said. 
Florida has the talent to 
make another run without them, though.
The duo of Kennedy Baker and 
Alex McMurtry head into their ju-
nior years, poised to make a an-
other push.
Alicia Boren competed as an 
all-arounder in 13 meets as a freshman. 
And Peyton Ernst was a steady 
contributor on beam in her ﬁ  rst year. 
Junior Claire Boyce, who sat 
out this season with a hip injury, returns to the lineup for her ﬁ  -
nal season and another freshman 
class looking to make an immedi-ate impact is coming in.
“Losing (the seniors), we will 
take a hit,” Rowland said. 
“However, they have taught 
all of their other team members how to be leaders themselves.”
It’s the end of the road for 
Sloan, but she knows this isn’t the end for the Gators.
“I told them to go out there and 
kick butt next year,” Sloan said. 
“Pretend I’m yelling at them, in 
their face, telling them to get out there and just have fun. I think this is going to change a lot for Florida.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org GYM,  from pg 13Underclassmen will have to replace Sloan, four-person senior class
LEFT:
Peyton Ernst celebrates 
during day one of the NCAA Gymnastics Championships in Fort Worth, T exas. 
FAR LEFT:
Alex McMurtry does a Gator chomp during her ﬂ  oor routine on day one of the NCAA Gym-nastics Championships in Fort Worth, T exas.
Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Munro launched a line drive into left 
ﬁ  eld. DeWitt crossed home easily and di-
rected Janell Wheaton where to slide to get around the tag, giving Munro her 18th and 19th RBIs on the year.
“Hitting is usually contagious,” Munro 
said. “When you’re feeling good, you hit bet-ter.”
The catcher is riding a season-high six-
game hitting streak.
“I feel really good," she said. "I’m seeing 
the ball well, conﬁ  dence is coming back."
After an 11-pitch duel between UF’s Tay-
lore Fuller and ULL pitcher Alex Stewart 
resulted in a pop out, UF ended the second 
with a 2-0 lead.
Barnhill got the third inning’s ﬁ  rst two 
outs in a breeze. But a two-out double, a base hit and a walk followed.
With the bases loaded and two outs, Wal-
ton made a pitching change, bringing junior Delanie Gourley in for Barnhill.
Gourley sat down ULL’s DJ Sanders after 
three whiffs to preserve the Florida lead.
“I really like coming in in those situ-
ations, and I don’t know why, but I like them,” Gourley said. “If you wanted me to do it every day, I would.”
Florida extended its edge in the bottom 
of the third.
With one out, senior Kirsti Merritt bunted 
for a hit and an errant throw from the pitcher 
put her on second.A strikeout and a walk later, DeWitt hit 
a hard grounder that bounced off the glove 
of the outstretched ULL second baseman, ca-reening into shallow right. Merritt rounded 
third, crossed the plate and gave Florida a 
three-run lead.
Gourley (13-2) ﬁ  nished the game giving 
up no walks, two hits and striking out eight.
“As much as we try to not pay attention to rankings, when you have a team come in No. 5 to your ground, you want to win even more,” Gourley said.
Florida will take the ﬁ  eld again Wednes-
day at 6 p.m. when it faces USF at Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Delanie Gourley pitches during Florida's 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
SOFTBALL,  from pg13Gourley struck out eight batters in 4.1 innings
game as she defeated Bongart 6-1, 6-0 to 
put Florida up 3-0.
No. 61 Anna Danilina finished the job 
for the Gators, getting the 6-0, 6-1 win over Boles to clinch the match. 
Danilina has gone 16-1 in dual-match 
singles this season.
With the win, Florida emerged as the 
regular-season SEC champions for the 
ninth time dating back to 2006. 
Florida can now shift its focus to the 
SEC tournament in Baton Rouge starting 
on Wednesday. 
As a No. 1 seed, the Gators will have a 
bye until the quarterfinals, in which they will only have to beat three teams to be-come SEC tournament champions.
“Right now as we are traveling home 
to Gainesville,” Thornqvist said, “we are looking upon this regular season with great satisfaction and pride.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
With the Southeastern Confer-
ence tournament set to begin on 
Wednesday, the Florida men’s ten-nis team had one ﬁ  nal test to pre-pare itself for the postseason.
The No. 13 Gators (15-6, 10-2 
SEC) passed that test, overpower-ing Tennessee 6-1 on Sunday after-noon at the Ring Tennis Complex.
“I thought that we just bounced 
back every time we needed to in 
the match,” coach Bryan Shelton 
said. “Whether it was doubles or singles, when we got down a little bit our guys responded and really competed well.”
It was an all-around team ef-
fort for UF in its regular-season ﬁ  -nale, as Florida won the ﬁ  rst two doubles sets and grabbed 11 of 13 singles sets in the victory.
Seniors Gordon Watson and 
Diego Hidalgo both took their sin-gles matches in straight sets, play-ing in front of the home fans in Gainesville for potentially the last time in their careers.
“It was a special day,” Watson 
said. “A bunch of family came up and friends from Naples and made 
it a great atmosphere, along with all the crowd. It’s the end of a regu-
lar season for me, but we’re look-ing forward to the SEC tournament to see what we can do.”
Florida took a 1-0 lead early on 
over the Volunteers (11-16, 0-12 SEC) after Hidalgo and Watson 
defeated Jack Schipanski and Luis 
Valero 6-3 to clinch the doubles point.
Junior Maxx Lipman began 
singles play by knocking off Jack Heslin 7-6, 6-2 for his second win in SEC play this season.
Following a 6-4, 6-4 victory by 
Watson over Schipanski, junior El-
liott Orkin sealed the contest for the Gators, taking down Timo Stodder 
7-6, 6-4 for his ﬁ  fth match-clincher of the spring.
“Clinching is always exciting,” 
Orkin said. “It doesn’t really matter who clinches as long as we get the win, but to be able to ﬁ  nish it off 
today for our team today was really 
special.”
Hidalgo, freshman Alfredo Per-
ez and sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco rounded out singles compe-tition for the Gators, with Hidalgo defeating Valero 7-6, 6-3. Perez took his ﬁ  rst set over Igor Smely-anski 7-6 before the latter retired 
at the 5-3 mark in the second set. Perez-Blanco followed Perez's win 
by falling to Srdjan Jakovljevic 5-7, 6-4, 1-0.
UF will now head to Columbia, 
South Carolina for the SEC tour-nament. Florida will be the No. 2 seed, and will face either Vander-
bilt or Ole Miss in its ﬁ  rst match.
“For us, going into the SEC tour-
nament is really about just taking 
each moment one at a time, and enjoying it, and savoring it and making the most of it,” Shelton said.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
Gators secure No. 2 seed in SEC Tournament with win over UT
Florida clinched the 
SEC regular-season 
title on Friday
WOMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg1316   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016
Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team made a val-
iant effort early during the ﬁ  nal round of the 
Southeastern Conference Championship on Sunday.
But it wasn’t enough.
Riding the play of freshmen duo Gordon 
Neale and Sam Horsﬁ  eld, the No. 8 Gators ﬁ  n-
ished in a tie for third with No. 23 Arkansas at 21 over, eight shots behind No. 3 Georgia’s 
winning total of 13 over.
Florida went into the tournament looking 
to capture its ﬁ  rst SEC title since 2011. Sun-
day’s ﬁ  nish at the Sea Island Golf Club in St. Simons, Georgia, marked the Gators’ best ﬁ  n-ish in the event since a third-place ﬁ  nish in 2012. 
After the second round, UF coach J.C. Dea-
con said he wanted to see his players limit the mistakes that cost them during Rounds 1 and 2.
From Neale and Horsﬁ  eld, Deacon got 
that.
Neale, making just his third appearance in 
the lineup, ﬁ  red a ﬁ  nal-round, 3-under 67 — the best round of his career. The Dove Can-yon, California, native opened with a bogey-free 32 on the front nine. He would make two more birdies on the ﬁ  nal nine, but bogeys on the 12th and 17th holes tempered his momen-
tum.
Neale ﬁ  nished the tournament in fourth 
alone at plus 1, four shots behind Georgia’s 
Lee McCoy who shot a 1-under 69 in the ﬁ  nal round to capture the individual title. “He showed how big-time of a player he 
can be and how bright his future is,” Deacon said of Neale in a release. 
A bogey on the ﬁ  rst hole, a short par-4, 
did little to derail Horsﬁ  eld’s round. Horsﬁ  eld went on to make three-straight birdies from holes 4 to 6. He carded three more birdies on 
the back nine to ﬁ  nish the day with a 1-under 
69, leaving him in a tie for ﬁ  fth at plus 2. 
Hazards and relentless wind eventually 
took their toll, though.
Alejandro Tosti couldn’t 
get anything going in Round 3. After making four birdies in Round 2, the sophomore failed to make 
a birdie during the ﬁ  nal 
round. Tosti made three bogeys en route to a 3-over 
73 to ﬁ  nish in a tie for 13th. 
Jorge Garcia couldn’t build any momen-
tum, struggling to stay relevant all week. 
Garcia shot a 3-over 38 on the opening 
nine. He would limp into the clubhouse with three more bogeys and a double to cap off his 
ﬁ  rst SEC Championship with a ﬁ  nal-round 77. 
He ﬁ  nished the tournament in a tie for 38th. 
Junior Ryan Orr didn’t fare any better. Orr 
shot 5 over through his last ﬁ  ve holes, includ-ing a quadruple bogey on the par-4 16th, and ﬁ  nished in a tie for 52nd. 
The Gators will have a month to ﬁ  gure 
things out. Florida returns to action on May 16 when it tees off in the NCAA Regional Cham-
pionship. 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgBy Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Although the Florida women’s golf 
team ﬁ  nished in second place at the 
Southeastern Conference Championship 
on Sunday, coming up ﬁ  ve strokes short 
of ﬁ  rst-place Alabama, Maria Torres made history.
The junior carded a collegiate-best 9 
under par (207), the second-lowest tour-nament score in UF history, claiming the SEC individual crown.
“It’s hard to put into words how proud 
I am of Maria, and how far she’s come,” 
coach Emily Glaser said in a release. “That 
is the action of a champion, and someone who wants it.”
UF ﬁ  nished at even par, ﬁ  ve strokes be-
hind SEC Champion Alabama.
Torres and junior Kelly Grassel, who 
ﬁ  nished in a tie for 11th place at 3 over par, were the only Gators to place in the top 15.
Rounding out the Gators’ lineup were 
Samantha Wagner in a tie for 16th (5 over par), Karolina Vlckova in a tie for 20th (6 over par) and Taylor Tomlinson in a tie 
for 31st (10 over par).
“I’m immensely proud of this group,” 
Glaser said. 
“They played so hard today, they 
fought, and we hung with Alabama most of the day.”Florida had won four-straight tourna-
ments before the conference tournament 
began on Friday and was tied with Ala-bama at 2 over par after Saturday. 
But an 11-stroke improvement on Day 
3 catapulted the Crimson Tide ahead of UF.
Torres was impressive in each round, 
ﬁ  nishing with scores of 69, 68 and 70. 
The junior became the seventh UF golfer 
to win a conference title 
and the ﬁ  rst in 13 years.
“It feels spectacular,” 
Torres said in a release. “I have no words to de-scribe it yet.”
Florida has almost a 
month off before it be-
gins play in the NCAA 
Regional Championship on May 16. 
There, the Gators will try to win their ﬁ  rst national title since winning back-to-back 
championships in 1985 and 1986.
“This is a tremendous group of ath-
letes, but more importantly an outstand-
ing group of young women that repre-sented the Gators in a ﬁ  rst class manner,” 
Glaser said. 
“I’m really excited for what’s to come 
for us.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgNeale came in fourth place Torres claimed individual title
Neale
Women’s golf places second, men ﬁ  nish in third at SECs
Torres
