We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 60 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
Five things to know for LSU week
Appleby will remain the starter, pg. 13
UF research shows the impact of climate change
Sea level and weather biggest concerns for Florida, pg. 5
UF alumnus competes on ABC’s ‘Shark Tank’
He received a $100,000 investment,  pg. 5GNV locals gather to watch the 
supermoon
See the photos, pg. 8
UNIVERSITY POLICE HAS 
INCREASED PATROLS.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
UF ofﬁ  cials and University Police are 
taking steps after multiple complaints were 
made about pro-white and anti-racism ﬂ  i-
ers placed across UF’s campus.
Three ﬂ  iers reading “Tired of anti-white 
propaganda in college? You aren’t alone” 
were reported on campus between Satur-
day and Monday, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. 
They were found at the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center, the Murphree Hall park-
ing lot and Ustler Hall.
At the bottom of the ﬂ  iers was a link to 
The Right Stuff, an anti-Semitic blog with an afﬁ  liated podcast that created the “pa-renthesis meme,” in which Jewish names 
are surrounded by parentheses, often in 
order to target them for online abuse on social media. 
Sikes said the university does not know 
who put them up, or how many had been 
placed around campus. The ﬂ  iers were a breach of UF regula-
tions, though no criminal laws were vio-
lated, she said. Fliers can only be put up on UF bulletin boards. 
At least six complaints were made, 
some to University Police and some to UF President Kent Fuchs. 
Following the incident, UPD has in-
creased patrols and is encouraging people to report any incidents they see. 
Fuchs released a statement at about 4 
p.m. Monday stating the university is com-mitted to inclusion and that he ﬁ  nds the 
message offensive. “With politics and differing points of 
view leading to heightened frustrations 
and concerns across the nation and in Gainesville, I reafﬁ  rm that our university 
is a caring and diverse community that cel-
ebrates and embraces students, faculty and staff of all backgrounds, experiences and perspectives, and we are ﬁ  rmly committed 
to supporting all members of our commu-
nity,” Fuchs said.  “I denounce any state-ments and symbols that hurt or disparage others.”
Turlington Plaza and the Plaza of the  Pro-white fliers found on campus prompt UF response
PROTESTS AND REPORTS 
OF THREATS FOLLOWED 
TRUMP’S ELECTION.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
During a press conference held 
Monday, Gainesville Mayor Lauren 
Poe addressed the feeling of anxi-ety some in the city have felt since Donald Trump was elected presi-dent. He also called on residents to report cases of intimidation and threats following incidents in Gainesville and across the country.
Speaking outside City Hall, Poe 
said residents and organizations representing marginalized com-munities in the city informed him about threats they have received since the election. He cited reports of pro-white ﬂ  iers appearing at UF, but he said no other incidents had been reported at Santa Fe College or in any of Alachua County’s pub-
lic schools.
“It is with some degree of sad-
ness that I feel like this is neces-
sary, but it has become very clear over the last week that many of our residents in the city of Gainesville 
feel a certain degree of anxiety and 
apprehension,” Poe said.
Since the election, Gainesville 
Police have received two reports of 
people being threatened, said GPD 
spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
“Neither, at this point, have 
been classiﬁ  ed as hate crimes,” 
Tobias said, adding that he could not comment speciﬁ  cally on either 
case.
In light of protests in Gainesville 
denouncing Trump’s proposal to Gainesville mayor talks 
post-election anxiety
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
PRESIDENTIAL PASSION
Chris Salazar, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance freshman, argues in a tight group on Turlington Plaza during 
a protest against President-elect Donald Trump on Monday. “He’s my president, ” Salazar said after arguing. “Democracy decided. I’m going to support him. ” Read the story on page 3.
THERE ARE 120 BUILDINGS AT UF 
THAT CONTAIN ASBESTOS. 
By Jessica Finkel 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Signs in buildings across campus warn of 
the presence of asbestos, but UF ofﬁ  cials say it’s not a health concern. 
Asbestos, a building material used as a ﬁ  re 
retardant, is still present in older buildings on UF’s campus, but all visible asbestos on cam-pus was removed from buildings that are more than 25 years old. It originally cost $25 million to get rid of it, said William Properzio, the di-rector of environmental health and safety at 
UF. 
When inhaled, asbestos ﬁ  bers can get 
trapped in a person’s lungs and cause scarring 
and inﬂ  ammation. It can also increase the risk of lung cancer. Students are not at risk at the moment, because the asbestos is contained within the walls and carpets of the buildings, he said. UF has a strict policy on renovations to buildings that have been built using asbestos, he added. 
“It is required that we go in on a regular ba-
sis and inspect the known asbestos,” he said. 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said the uni-
versity would take immediate action if the as-bestos became a concern. 
“If there’s any indication that asbestos is 
visibly present, then UF would send a team to remove it from the area,” she said. 
The signs warn readers to refrain from hit-ting walls, pulling up carpets or beginning renovations on any sections of the buildings unless a specialist is contacted, Properzio said, adding that 120 buildings on campus contain asbestos.
The Music Building, which was built in 
1971 and is undergoing construction, has al-ways been an area of concern for Properzio because of its previously open roof.
“If we were to start cutting out walls and 
changing things, we would have to go in and 
 Presence of asbestos on campus no cause for concern SEE FLIERS,  PAGE 4
SEE MAYOR,  PAGE 4
SEE ASBESTOS,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Global Engagement Gator Style: 
My Fabulous Fulbright and 
Strategies for Successful Intercultural Communication’Today from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
in the Music Building, Room 
101, come to the last Fulbright event of this year in celebra-tion of International Education Week. For his six-month Fulbright Core Faculty Award, Ed Kellerman, a master lecturer in the Dial Center for Written and Oral Communication, 
taught intercultural commu-
nication and collected data at the Universiti Tenaga Nasional in Malaysia. This multimedia presentation will feature short, humorous videos and stunning photography that will illustrate strategies to overcome intercul-tural barriers that involve ap-
preciating cultural symbols and 
being involved with local fami-lies, as well as using the Malay language effectively. To register, please visit goo.gl/h9gtyl. For more information, email mcar-dec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Florida Underground: 
Musicians Showcase/RUB EntertainmentJoin Reitz Union Board Entertainment on Thursday to experience an array of perfor-mances by some of Gainesville’s best up-and-coming artists. With musical acts ranging from electronic to pop rock, the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
will transform into a one-stop venue for promising local art-ists of all genres. Acts include a DJ set by Gainesville’s Low Poly, Brooke & Brian from UF’s Singer Songwriter Society, Andy King from UF’s Singer Songwriter Society and UF’s 
The Sedoctaves. Doors open at 
7 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom.
Big Heart Gators and Katie 
Caples Foundation work to save livesThe Katie Caples Foundation is partnering with UF’s Big Heart Gators for an organ, tis-
sue and eye donor registration 
drive now through Friday on campus. Big Heart Gators and KCF are working closely with Donate Life Florida represen-tatives, who will be providing practical training and educa-tion to Big Heart Gators. In ad-dition to registering new organ 
donors, student volunteers will 
answer questions about organ donation to inform, educate and dispel the myths associated with donation and transplantation. One organ donor can save eight lives with solid organ transplant and enhance the lives of up to 
50 more with soft tissue dona-
tion. With a campus population of more than 90,000, Big Heart Gators are hoping to register 500 new organ donors. For more in-formation, find Big Heart Gators on Facebook at facebook.com/BigHeartGators or the Katie Caples Foundation website at 
katiecaples.org. To learn more 
about organ donation and to register online, please visit do-natelifeflorida.org.
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood Drive hosted by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will 
be held until Friday. All blood 
donors will earn points for their chapter and spirit points toward Dance Marathon 2017. Donors will also receive free T-shirts and help save lives. Bloodmobiles will be located at the Gainesville Donor Center, Newberry Road Donor Center, 
the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little 
Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lgbialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
Vigil
The 4th Annual Survivors of 
Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Saturday at the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 p.m. with a cer-emony beginning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to 
the community. Refreshments 
will be provided. The vigil will be sponsored by the Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, please contact Donna Eckel at raggedyds@aol.com.
See how students turn waste into 
art during Trashformations at the Florida MuseumEver wonder how milk jugs morph into beautiful wading birds or how gears and gad-gets become gigantic bugs? See how Alachua County middle-school, high-school and col-
lege students transform waste 
into works of art Friday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. The museum will display win-ning entries from the 18th an-nual Trashformations contest through Nov. 28. This event is made possible in part by the 
Alachua County Office of Waste Alternatives and the Alachua 
County Board of County Commissioners.
Entries for science photo contest 
due Dec. 20The Elegance of Science art competition is now accepting entries and is open to UF stu-dents, faculty and staff. Submit your two-dimensional research images or photos that incorpo-
rate scientific tools or concepts 
for a chance to win cash priz-es. The contest is organized by the Florida Museum of Natural History and the Marston Science Library. Submissions are due Sunday. For contest rules or to view past winners, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/eos or call 352-273-
2013.
APIACare (Mental Health): Final 
Exam Care Package
Mental health is an issue that affects everyone. This finals season, Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs would like to encourage everyone to priori-
tize mental health by providing 
students with care packages that include items such as cof-fee, medicine, hygiene products and more in order to promote successful and healthy study-ing during finals. If you’re a pet owner, APIA has created a Paws and Claws care package 
filled with toys, treats and re-
sources you can share with your pets. APIA has a care package made for children, because it acknowledges that some UF stu-dents and faculty have young children at home, so balancing a family, work and school may be tough. Be sure to take care 
of yourselves and the ones you 
love — your peers, pets and children.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
HIGH  72° LOW  49°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 60
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tickets went on sale Monday 
for the second-annual Changeville 
music and entertainment festival.
The two-day downtown festival, 
to be held in March, will feature a 
street fair, musical and comedic 
performances, ﬁ  lm screenings and virtual-reality exhibits.Headlining the musical side the 
festival will be artists Talib Kweli, Big Freedia, Amy Ray of Indigo 
Girls, David Bazan, Moon Hooch 
and Big Sam’s Funky Nation. The lineup was announced in parts on Thursday and Friday.
Multi-venue tickets cost $29. 
The price for single-venue tickets, 
which are not yet for sale, has not 
been determined.The festival’s mission is to form 
a connection among the artists and the attendees, with an emphasis 
on encouraging social change, said 
Joel Ramos, the festival’s creative director.
“Changeville is combining those 
personalities and those activists and those workers with the artists 
who believe in the same ideals and 
who wanna cause change through their art,” Ramos said.
The festival will take place on 
Bo Diddley Community Plaza and 
at High Dive, with other venues to 
be announced later.
The ﬁ  rst Changeville festival, 
which took place in February, saw more than 3,200 attendees. Nearly half of them were from out of the 
state, Ramos said. People came 
from 128 cities and 22 states na-tionwide.
Omar Howard, an 18-year-
old UF business freshman, said he found out about Changeville through Swamp Records.
“I think what I’m most excited 
about is the fact that some pretty well-known names are coming to Gainesville, and that’s great expo-sure for future big artists to come 
and perform for us,” Howard said. L ineup announced for annual downtown festival, tickets on saleBy Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Almost a week after Donald 
Trump was chosen as the 45th U.S. 
president, UF students continued to protest his win on campus. 
On Turlington Plaza on Monday 
morning, members of UF’s Radical Student Alliance began shouting an-ti-Trump chants, denouncing Trump as the next president and telling stu-dents to stand together to protect minority groups. By mid-afternoon, students who supported Trump debated them, drawing a crowd of about 200 who watched members 
from each side argue. 
Before the counter-protesters be-
gan, Marco Fonseca, a 21-year-old 
member of the Radical Student Al-liance, led chants through a mega-phone and told passing students to combat racism and fascism. 
“(Trump) wants to make Ameri-
ca great,” the UF philosophy junior 
said. “Well, I’m here to tell you 
America was never great.”Soon enough, another student 
showed up with a megaphone, coun-ter-arguing claims made by the Radi-
cal Student Alliance. As the crowd 
formed around them, claims about Hillary Clinton, Trump and their supporters were thrown around. 
Chris Salazar, 19, got involved 
when he heard claims made about Trump supporters. 
“I’m personally not racist or a 
bigot,” the UF ﬁ  nance freshman 
said. “I thought it was unfair to gen-
eralize that all Trump supporters are racist.”
He said it’s time for others to sup-
port the president-elect, but the op-posing side ignored everything he said. 
“He’s my president,” he told 
them. “Democracy decided. I’m go-
ing to support him.”
Jorge Zaldivar, 21, said he was 
passing by Turlington Plaza when 
he noticed the commotion. The UF 
ﬁ  nance senior joined in because he’d 
seen debates and protests across the country.“I just didn’t know it was hap-
pening here,” he said, adding that he wanted to discuss Trump’s policies 
and economic plans. “I was hoping 
it would.”
The size of the crowd ﬂ  uctuated 
as students argued against each oth-er. Some watched from the second ﬂ  oor of Turlington Hall. 
Phillip Steffens, 20, broke off 
from watching the main argument to talk with another student. 
Steffens, who supported Trump 
in the election, said the shouting match didn’t allow rational discus-sion, but being able to talk to anoth-er student allowed him to ﬁ  nd com-mon ground with someone who had different ideas. 
“It went well,” the UF marketing 
junior said. “I don’t think I changed 
his mind at all, but I think we both 
learned a lot.”
Conor MacDonnell, 24, watched 
members of each side argue. He said 
it was exciting to see students engag-
ing with each other. 
“America is a country of ideas, and today we’re seeing this really amazing turnout by people who are so passionate,” the UF doctoral stu-
dent said. “It’s exciting for all those 
ideas to clash together, because it promotes compromise. It promotes freedom of speech.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org .
 On Turlington Plaza, tensions ﬂ  are as students debate Trump’s win  
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
David Hensley, a UF agronomy graduate student, protests President-
elect Donald Trump with the Radical Student Alliance on Turlington Plaza on Monday morning. The group later drew a crowd of about 100.
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
THE EVENT WAS PART OF ISLAM 
APPRECIATION MONTH.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
During Islam Appreciation Month, stu-
dents gathered in the Reitz Union to hear 
a Muslim activist speak about empowering 
Muslim women. 
Tope Fajingbesi, a financial accountant 
from Maryland who recently worked on 
Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, 
told about 50 UF students Monday about Muslim women’s role in politics. During 
the event, hosted by Islam on Campus, Fa-jingbesi said she wanted to help Muslim women find their purpose in life and grow 
closer to Allah. 
Muslim women shouldn’t define their 
lives based on other’s perceptions, she 
said.
“They have to define it by the promise 
Allah has made to them,” she said. “We have to understand there’s more to our lives then just sitting in the background.” 
Fajingbesi spoke about famous Mus-
lim women including major figures from the Quran and the female founder of the world’s first university in Morocco. 
“This is who we are,” she said. “This is 
our history. This is something that we need 
to be proud of.” 
While campaigning for Clinton in Michi-
gan, she said other Muslims told her that 
getting involved with politics was “ha-
ram,” or forbidden. But Fajingbesi said 
Muslim women should be political instead of passive, especially after the results of the presidential election. 
“Our faith does not tell us to be passive 
and just to roll over when something needs to be done. We need to get up and do it,” she said. “We’re going to have to engage this new America.”
Samon Imtiaz, a UF biology junior, said 
she liked hearing Fajinbesi describe finding the purpose in life by listening to Allah and spending time thinking without distrac-tions and noise. 
“She really emphasized thinking on 
your own,” the 20-year-old said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Activist discusses Muslim women’s engagement in politics
Americas are free speech zones at UF for those who wish to ex-press their thoughts and opin-
ions, Sikes said. 
“We absolutely encour-
age when you’re upset about 
free speech, we encourage free 
speech,” Sikes said.
Anti-racism fliers were also 
posted around campus reading “Many colors one working class. 
Smash racism. No safe zone for Nazis, Racists, Gay Bashers and 
Anti-Immigrant Xenophobes.” Going forward, the university 
is looking for ways to increase diversity and inclusion, Sikes 
said. A
 UF task force is considering 
creating a campuswide inclu-
sion and diversity task force as 
well as having individual diver-sity officers.
“There are a number of con-
versations and discussions go-
ing on on how we actually meet 
those goals,” Sikes said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgFLIERS,  from pg. 1UF is looking for ways 
to increase inclusion
deport millions of undocumented 
immigrants, Poe stressed the im-portance of the city’s inclusivity and diversity. 
He said GPD does not have a 
policy that aims to locate and re-port illegal immigrants to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-ment, which performs the func-tions of the former Immigration 
and Naturalization Service.
Anyone who has experienced or 
witnessed harassment should call 
GPD at 352-955-1818 or call 911 if he or she is in immediate danger, 
Poe said. Some have not been re-
porting due to fear of retaliation, 
he said.
“We want to encourage them 
that they need to come forward,” Poe said.
Melissa Wokasch, a 40-year-
old Gainesville resident, asked Poe how he planned to stop threats and intimidation before they happened, to which Poe responded that GPD was ready to handle reports.
Wokasch said she wanted to 
hear what local government would do to combat intimidation after she was called a slur Monday. Some-one had seen a Hillary Clinton sticker on her phone while she was at a Kangaroo Gas Station.
As a gay woman, she said she 
worries for herself and her 12-year-old daughter.
“This is the first time in 
Gainesville that I’ve felt unsafe,” Wokasch said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgMAYOR,  from pg. 1Two incidents have been reported to GPD
investigate the walls for asbestos,” Properzio said. “But unless that material is broken, it’s not causing any ex-posure.”
Renovations on the building could be costly, because 
it would require a team of specialists to remove build-ing materials with asbestos, said Kevin Orr, the interim director of music at UF. 
He said he made sure students in the buildings would 
be safe before allowing any renovations to proceed. Re-cently, the open atrium of the Music Building was cov-ered as part of the ongoing construction at the school.   
“Old roofing materials were tested for asbestos by UF 
and passed prior to the start of work, or the roofing proj-ect would have never moved forward,” Orr said.  
Jason Jones, a UF music education senior, said he 
first noticed the signs when he began taking classes in the Music Building as a freshman. Initially, he said he was concerned, and the ongoing construction has made him worry about the amount of time he spends there.
“While I do understand that asbestos is not the 
worst thing in the world, it still can be very harmful, especially to musicians,” the 21-year-old said.ASBESTOS,  from pg. 1Removing asbestos can be expensiveCaitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe asks residents to report threats, harassment and intimidation on Monday following the general election. Since the election of Donald Trump on Nov. 8, Gainesville Police has received two reported incidents of people being threatened.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Three fliers reading “Tired of anti-white propaganda in college? You aren’t alone” were reported on campus between Saturday and Monday. They were found at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center, the Murphree Hall parking lot and Ustler Hall.
UPCOMING POST-ELECTION GATHERINGS:
• “Resistance” meeting: T oday at 6:30 p.m. at The Wooly
• Post Election Healing with IOC: Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. at the Reitz Union
• Protests: Thursday at 4 p.m. on Turlington Plaza; the intersection of Southwest 34th Street and Southwest Archer Road; the intersection of Southwest 13th Street and West University Avenue
• March: Saturday at 4 p.m. beginning at the Stephen C. O’Connell CenterTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
DOES GOD EXIST?
Preacher T om Short from Gator Christian Life looks out at a group of students shouting their 
views about God. More than 50 students gathered around the preacher and his display of posters to debate the existence of God.
By Sarah Coleman
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new study led by a UF professor is 
encouraging people to take action against climate change. 
The study, published Thursday, aimed 
to prove climate change is impacting ecosystems around the world, said Brett Scheffers, a UF ecology assistant professor. Since August 2015, he worked with a team of 17 researchers from 10 countries to look at how other studies have tracked climate change over the years.  
“Everyone talks about climate change 
as a problem for the future,” Scheffers said. “People are planning so that we can prevent climate change, and the point of this paper is not about preventing it. Cli-mate change is already here.”
The study found how the consequences 
of climate change on ecosystems and peo-ple are going to become more severe over time. 
The team wanted to show how different 
ecosystems, including marine and freshwa-ter systems, have evolved due to climate change, he said. Florida’s ecosystem has 
also been affected.
“Precipitation is changing in Gainesville 
and the surrounding area,” he said. “This 
should be a major concern for everyone.” 
Peter Frederick, a research professor in 
UF’s Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, said Florida’s east and west coasts are sinking in slightly. “The big impact of climate change in 
Florida that everyone thinks about is sea level rise because a lot of Florida coastal areas are low lying, and it wouldn’t take much for them to become inundated,” he said.
But rising sea levels aren’t the only 
concern for Floridians, he added. Climate change has created inconsistent weather, leaving the state vulnerable to droughts, floods or even uncontrollable wildfires.
“It’s no wonder that Florida burns,” he 
said. “If it gets dry, it’s going to burn.”
UF research shows continued negative impact of climate changeSTUDENTS WILL BE  
ABLE TO TAG AND  
POST QUESTIONS.
By Kendal Barer
Alligator Contributing Writer
New software coming to Can-
vas will let students in online classes participate in discussions as early as Spring.
The software lets students tag 
and post questions on a timeline adjacent to class lecture videos. 
Former UF staff members at the 
Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service and a current staff mem-
ber at the Warrington College of 
Business Administration have 
worked on creating the new in-
teractive software for the past 
few years, Tawnya Means, the 
director of Warrington’s Teaching 
and Learning Center, wrote in an 
email. 
Though the software is only 
a prototype, Means said she is 
hoping to pilot the program in 
UF classes by the end of Spring. She and the former Graham Cen-
ter staff wanted to give students taking online classes a way to in-
teract with their professors and 
fellow students.
The Graham Center funded the 
software, she said. Because it was developed at UF, it will be free for 
UF students and faculty to license 
through Canvas. The technology 
can also be used for lectures in 
face-to-face courses.
“We still have some way to go 
before it is usable and fully scal-
able,” she said.
But Emily Porterfield, a 
21-year-old UF accounting senior, 
said she worries about students 
asking irrelevant questions and 
taking advantage of the software. 
She’s also concerned with the clarity of questions. 
“If I have a question, I would 
prefer not to articulate it in text 
because sometimes it’s hard to 
get my point across when I don’t fully grasp the subject yet,” she said. “It’s nice to have a dialogue 
with my professor.”Software to let students 
discuss in online lectures
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF alumnus Mikey Lickstein, 25, poses for a photo with his dog, Bentley. 
Lickstein appeared on “Shark T ank” and received an investment for his business, SiliDog. The business specializes in creating silent, durable pet tags in a variety of colors and styles.
HIS COMPANY SELLS  
SILENT, DURABLE  
DOG TAGS.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The evening after his appear-
ance on ABC’s “Shark Tank,” UF alumnus Mikey Lickstein’s phone broke after receiving numerous notifications that sales for a pet tag he created had gone up.
On the show, which aired last 
month, Lickstein, 25, aimed to convince five businesspeople, called “sharks,” to invest in his company, SiliDog, which makes silent, durable pet tags out of sili-cone. Shark Lori Greiner invested about $100,000 for a 30-percent stake in the company and a 50-cent royalty on each tag sold. 
Before his “Shark Tank” ap-
pearance, Lickstein prepared by having his family members — many of whom work with him — act as mock sharks, drilling him on questions the investors would likely ask, he said.
“I haven’t slept,” Lickstein 
said. “I studied for this as if it was the largest test of my life.”
Lickstein began SiliDog near 
the end of 2013, investing $5,000 of his bar mitzvah money to start the company, which he ran out of his Weston, Florida, home.
His mutt, Bentley, a roadside 
rescue, inspired the company, he said. Bentley would often destroy his dog tags, and after replacing four tags in one month, Lickstein began brainstorming what prod-ucts could last longer. 
After playing with an “inde-
structible” dog toy made of sili-cone, he decided to make Bentley a tag out of the material. 
UF professor Jamie Kraft said 
he had faith that Lickstein’s idea would get an investment. Lick-stein has had a positive attitude since being a UF graduate student in entrepreneurship.
“He wanted to make a differ-
ence, and that inspiration defi-nitely was infectious,” Kraft said. “You could see he was very posi-tive, and it was going to be hard to deter him from moving forward with the idea.”
UF graduate gets $100,000 
investment on ABC’s ‘Shark Tank’W eather, sea level concerns for FloridaThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Guest Column
An open letter to President Fuchs: Take action 
to condemn hate and support UF students
Dear President Fuchs,
This election season has proven 
hostile, tiresome and more polariz-
ing than any political campaign in 
recent history. Many of us worry 
what this divisiveness will bring post-elec-
tion.
Since the election results were announced, 
we have seen a wave of hate crimes spread 
across the country. Reports of hate crimes 
and hate speech have flooded news outlets and social 
media. Thursday, the Southern Poverty Law Center pub-lished a page on its website through which people could report incidents of hate crimes. Within 24 hours, the SPLC had received more than 200 claims. The recent 
surge in hate-fueled crime and speech has been linked to 
the ascent of President-elect Donald Trump.
Racist rhetoric has been explicitly attached to Mr. 
Trump. For instance, a Philadelphia department-store window was vandalized with the spray painted words “Sieg Heil 2016” and “Trump” with the T replaced by a swastika. A baseball dugout in Wellsville, New York, was graffitied with a swastika and the phrase “Make America White Again.” A gay couple from North Caro-
lina found a note on their car which read, “Can’t wait 
until your ‘marriage’ is overturned by a real president. Gay families = burn in hell. Trump 2016.”
What is most frightening, President Fuchs, is that 
many of these acts of hate are occurring on college campuses. A Muslim prayer room at New York Uni-versity was vandalized with pro-Trump slogans. Two incidents of Muslim women having their hijabs pulled violently from their heads have been reported at uni-
versities in San Jose, California, and Albuquerque, New Mexico. Police at the University of Louisi-
ana at Lafayette are investigating incidents of pro-Trump, anti-immigrant graffiti found 
throughout campus. Police at the University 
of Michigan are investigating a case in which a Muslim student was threatened to be set 
on fire if she would not remove her hijab. 
Even this weekend, reports surfaced on so-cial media showing evidence of hate speech on UF’s own campus.
In light of these recent events, universities across 
the country — such as the University of Pennsylvania, which is investigating a case of racial harassment on its campus — are releasing statements condemning hate crime and hateful rhetoric and taking action to protect 
their students.
I appreciate your brief comments Monday denounc-
ing the racially charged fliers found on UF’s campus. But I ask you today, President Fuchs: What will you do to 
prevent hate crime and hateful rhetoric? What will you do to defend the rights of UF’s Muslim, Jewish, Latinx, LGBTQ+ and immigrant students? What will you do to prevent assaults against women?
I do not ask you to contemplate the election or to 
support or denounce our president-elect. I do not ask you to denounce free speech. I ask that you condemn hate crimes and hate speech and work to keep UF free from them. You once said, “Together we can accomplish 
academic excellence within our community, reflective of 
the rich culture and diversity of our state and nation.” I commend you for these words, but it is time to take ac-tion. Will you stand up for UF students and their rights?
We are waiting to hear from you.
Rafael Hernandez is a UF English doctoral student.Ye godless children 
of Florida
As an educational institution, UF pursues justified, 
true beliefs. We strive to get as close to the truth as possible. To do this, we employ a healthy dose of rational skepticism; we critically analyze all claims, and every theory must contain an element of falsifi-
ability.
So every semester, when that preacher man comes out of 
his cave and builds that fraternity-knock-off signpost thing on the Plaza of the Americas in an attempt to indoctrinate you, it’s really in your best interest to question him inces-santly as a young academic who seeks truth.
We posit that a total and complete belief in God — that 
which this man argues for — is inconsistent with academic pursuits. On one hand, there’s the desire to apply rational 
skepticism to our studies: Peer review, constructive debate 
and competing theories are prevalent. But on the other hand, accepting the belief in the Abrahamic God seems like a face-value commitment. “The Bible is the word of God,” some mutter, “because the Bible tells us so and is infal-lible.” But why? “We know this because the Bible is the word of God,” they repeat, begging the question.  We’re met with a contradiction here; we are encouraged to question the knowledge that we take for granted but also take certain 
knowledge for granted.
We note the Abrahamic God not only because he’s the 
one this preacher man claims to exist, but also because this 
God requires total and certain belief from his believers. Ac-cording to scripture, he does not accept half-fledged com-mitments. As a newspaper made by students, we cannot be bold enough to say, in good conscience, that God cer-tainly does not exist. But many reading this will step back and employ the “God exists, and he does not intervene” 
deistic watchmaker defense, which is absurd. How can one 
ever prove or disprove this? This claim is simply unfalsi-fiable. Moreover, even if we grant this defense credence, why should we have any investment in God? If God truly has no impact on our lives, we’d rather live our lives of our own accord than according to a metaphysically inconceiv-able creature. 
The infamous Pascal’s Wager — the same Pascal that the 
coffeehouse just north of campus is named after — probably 
has frightened a lot of you into faith. If no god exists, then 
belief or lack of belief does not matter. If a god does exist, and you acknowledge that belief, then you’ll be saved. On the other hand, if a god exists and you don’t believe, then you’re damned. The only logical conclusion then, is to be-lieve in God: If he doesn’t exist, whatever, and if he does exist, you win.
Don’t you think God sees through your half-committed 
bulls---? Moreover, if you’re going to play that absurd game, 
think of this: God gives us little to no evidence of his exis-
tence, but he grants us the ability to think critically. There’s an implicit contradiction here. We use this rational thought to feed the starving, heal the sick and employ distributive justice. Despite this, when we employ critical reasoning to-ward God, he condemns us to a miserable fate. If this is the case, damn us all to hell. As students, we are commanded to practice the critical thinking skills exhibited in the last three examples of argument and counterargument when we 
encounter men on stools in front of libraries.
With this established, we find it necessary to question 
any and all claims made by this stool-sitter damning us all 
as sinners. That’s what college is for — challenging beliefs and encouraging healthy debate.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Rafael Hernandez
Speaking OutTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Like many others, I had to take a break 
from social media in the days following the election. While I understood some prefer to sort through their emotions on a public platform, I also realized I was 
soaking up these feelings like an overly em-pathetic sponge. In the past year, social me-dia became synonymous with the election, as each day brought new stories, poll numbers and voices to my various feeds.
Thus, in the wake of my ﬁ  rst presidential 
election, I found myself wondering what sort of inﬂ  uence social media had on it, and ap-parently I wasn’t the only one. 
The New York Times reported Facebook’s 
vice presidents and executives began discuss-ing the social network’s role in the election once it became apparent that Donald Trump would win last week. Facebook has been ac-cused of helping spread political misinforma-tion in the form of fake news articles, videos and memes, which some believed exerted a tangible effect on the country’s decision. Yet Mark Zuckerberg denied the accu-sations at a conference last Thurs-day.
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Face-
book’s model for disseminating news has come under ﬁ  re. Earlier this year, the social media site was accused of censoring conservative news and media in the Trending Topics section, leading Facebook to grapple with the effects it has on users’ political perspectives. 
More than anything else, Facebook is ex-
periencing an identity crisis as it becomes a primary news source for many of its users de-spite its original intention to serve as a neutral social platform.
In the days surrounding last Tuesday, my 
Facebook newsfeed became inundated with political posts from friends, acquaintances and strangers alike, many of them several paragraphs long and underscored by feel-ings of utter disbelief. They were also largely left-leaning, an unsurprising trend considering my age and liberal arts education.
Yet after speaking to my mother, 
I realized how different our Face-book newsfeeds must look, consid-ering our different demographics and how they reinforce our own beliefs. Facebook’s employees also realized this and were concerned with creating and maintaining 
these ideological bubbles, according to inter-views conducted by The New York Times.
It’s increasingly easy to double down on 
these beliefs, especially when surrounded by people who share them. Yet the internet and social media also connect us to a vari-ety of perspectives we would have never ex-perienced otherwise, so this problem seems almost contradictory. In the end, it all boils down to the human tendency to avoid cogni-tive dissonance. We actively seek out infor-mation that conﬁ  rms our beliefs, whether that information takes the form of a news channel, publication or Facebook page. The tricky part is we often don’t realize we’re doing it.
Despite Facebook’s concerns, I ﬁ  nd it dif-
ﬁ  cult to believe the social media platform was a major inﬂ  uencer in this election. If those us-ers looking to conﬁ  rm their beliefs didn’t ﬁ  nd the desired information on their newsfeed, they simply would have found it somewhere else. 
Perhaps anyone who takes every article 
and meme at face value is merely reap-ing what they sow. It’s easier to be a well-informed citizen now more than ever before, and while Facebook can quickly become a bubble, we can just as quickly seek out dif-fering opinions. Only time will tell how so-cial media continues to inﬂ  uence elections and the country’s political perspectives, yet I believe that it’ll remain a tool, not a hin-drance.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
Social media and the election: how Facebook affected voters' decisionsColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
I really like the comedy band Ninja Sex 
Party. It’s a good band. Members Dan Avidan and Brian Wecht portray the char-
acters Danny Sexbang and Ninja Brian, re-
spectively, and the band’s songs chronicle 
their adventures. These chronicles, per the name, are usually about ninjas, sex or par-
ties, but every chronicle serves to ﬂ  esh out the 
two characters. I’m going to rapid-ﬁ  re some opinions about Ninja Sex Party and character-driven comedy, so strap in. Are you strapped in? You are? Are you in a car? You shouldn’t 
be reading the paper while driving. You’re in 
the passenger’s seat? You shouldn’t be read-ing the paper while denying your driving friend the very same pleasure. Feel free to read this 
column aloud to the driver so they may too 
revel in my coolness.
Sex is funny. Society’s been pretty adamant 
about normalizing sex and making it a more approachable topic, which is a good thing. 
But I suspect sex will never fully lose its status 
as taboo, simply because of its nature. It will never not make people feel uncom-fortable. That being said, sex jokes will probably never not be deemed 
immature. These double negatives 
are really taking a toll on me, let me tell you. I’ll never not hate having to write a double negative. Sex is 
funny, but overt or crude sex talk is 
usually not welcomed in conversa-tion. I touched on this in last week’s column, but the dynamics between a character delivering a joke and a person delivering a joke 
are radically different.
We can laugh when characters are imma-
ture, but we do not laugh when people speak-
ing to us are immature. Whether we’re embar-
rassed by them or we simply don’t want to 
encourage them by laughing, we don’t respond well to crudeness in conversation; it’s a matter of saving face. But characters like Danny Sex-bang, the hypersexual Jewish ex-ninja, grant 
us the comfort to laugh at their expense. Artists 
like Avidan and theoretical physicist Wecht, along with other comedy bands like Tenacious D and Steel Panther, grant us the window we need to 
peer into the ironies of sexuality.
Danny Sexbang is romantic, but 
he’s incredibly shallow. He strives 
for greatness, but he tries to one-up 
Ninja Brian whenever he gets the 
chance. He’s an imperfect and gen-erally unlikable character, and that 
makes him an excellent outlet for sexual come-dy. We can laugh at his immaturity, arrogance 
and rudeness without feeling uncomfortable.
I’m not a huge fan of The Lonely Island. 
Despite its rocking tunes and dope jams, I can’t 
say I’m as attached to it as I am to Ninja Sex 
Party. Part of this, I feel, is precisely because 
of the consistency of character in Ninja Sex Party. Each song contributes to Danny Sex-bang’s depth of character: Songs like “Cool Pa-trol” and “Attitude City” showcase Sexbang’s 
warped perception of himself; songs like “Road 
Trip” and “Dragon Slayer” convey just how sleazy Sexbang can be; and songs like “Party of Three” and “Best Friends Forever” ﬂ  esh out the murderous relationship between Sexbang 
and Ninja Brian. The presence of a through-
line between each song and album makes the jokes feel less gimmicky and more organic be-cause they’re spoken by a well-developed and 
familiar character. And it’s hard to make sex 
jokes feel organic. That sentence sounds nasty to me for some reason. Something about the word organic. Yuck.
Ninja Sex Party is a band that rewards its 
listeners for coming back. Despite the minutes-long nature of its songs, the band crafts a char-acter who feels timeless. The songs play like episodes, and their lyrics detail their adven-
tures. It’s a method of storytelling that’s hard 
to come by: a short-form, musical, comedic character study.
Also, the band members wrote an almost 
9-minute rock opera called “6969,” so you 
know they’re talented.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineer-
ing junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Ninja Sex Party: an analysis of character-driven comedy and sexual humorColumn
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgBy Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Five stories above Gainesville, 
on top of the city-owned parking ga-
rage downtown, about 150 people gathered to gaze at a large yellow supermoon Monday night.
As the sun set at about 6 p.m., 
the moon revealed itself while mu-sic played and people roller-bladed, biked and walked around the top of the concrete garage. 
For Tyler Francischine, a UF 
Health employee, it was a time to forget about the election for an eve-ning, at least.
She said beyond roller-blading, 
she comes to the top of the garage regularly to think, write and watch the sunset.
“I think that in a time like right 
now, with the election, it’s impor-tant to be together as a communi-
ty,” she said. “The sky is doing its 
thing, and we can all be together as one — it’s good timing for some-
thing like this. It reminds us we’re 
more alike than we think.”
Francischine was joined by May-
nard Shaye, her colleague at UF 
Health and a fellow member of the 
roller-blading group Thndr Bldrz.
Shaye, 26, said the group meets 
atop the garage every week to skate.
“We have a lot of fun up here,” 
Shaye said.
This week, the group’s members decided to meet to celebrate the su-
permoon — when the full moon is 
closest to Earth and appears larg-
est. Monday’s moon was the largest since 1948, and the next supermoon 
won’t come around until 2034, ac-
cording to NASA.
Francischine said she made a 
public Facebook event to watch the 
moon but, by the next day, more than 500 people had shown inter-est.
“It just went viral,” she said. “I 
don’t think any of us were expect-ing that.”
Couples sat cocooned in blan-
kets and kids played tag under-
neath the street lamps, but when 
the moon came out from behind clouds, the majority pressed against 
the garage’s walls to get a good 
look. Some howled.
Joe Cucchiaro Jr. stood with his 
dog, Wiley, watching clouds move 
across the moon. He said he and his 
German shepherd-golden retriever mix have been backpacking on and 
off for 10 years and just rolled into 
town from Michigan.
“I got here like 20 minutes ago, 
and I saw a bunch of little heads 
over the rail from the street,” he 
said. “I figured I would see what 
was going on.”
He said he’s not sure how long 
he will stay in Gainesville, but he 
was glad to be here to see the com-
munity gathered to celebrate the moon. From here, he’s headed to 
St. Petersburg, Florida.
“It’s pretty,” he said. “It’s very 
yellow.”
Edwin Smith and Brian Kleeger 
walked 30 minutes from their home at Graham Hall to join the party.
They both saw the event on 
Facebook, and Kleeger said he wasn’t expecting to see so many 
kids.
“Living on campus, you always 
forget Gainesville is a place with dogs and kids,” Kleeger said. “I’m 
pretty wowed. I’ve never seen a 
moon this bright before.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A Crystal River, Florida, man 
attempting to drive around traffic 
Monday caused a fatal accident, 
killing himself and a Williston, 
Florida, woman, Florida Highway Patrol said.
At about 11 a.m., Calvin Lee 
Adams III, 29, headed north in a no-passing zone before attempt-ing to drive around a line of cars by crossing into southbound traf-
fic on Southwest Williston Road, 
according to an FHP press release.Adams, driving a 1998 Nissan 
Pathfinder, then struck the front 
of 36-year-old Michelle M. Ander-
son’s 2001 Honda Accord, killing both of them at the scene, accord-ing to the release.
In photos of the wreckage, 
the front ends of both cars ap-pear mangled, with Anderson’s car completely missing its wind-
shield.
The accident occurred in Mi-
canopy near the intersection of 
Southwest Williston Road and 
Southwest Wacahoota Road, ac-
cording to the report.Both Adams and Anderson 
were pronounced dead on scene 
by Alachua County Fire Rescue 
Services, according to the report. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgTwo killed in Micanopy crash after driver tries to avoid traffic
THE STUDY WILL TAKE 
ABOUT SIX MONTHS. 
By Carolyn Batt
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers and local insti-
tutions have teamed up to launch 
a study on racial inequity in Ala-chua County.
Researchers from seven in-
stitutions will study economic well-being, family structure, educational achievement, health status, involvement in the juve-nile justice system, child welfare involvement, involvement in the adult justice system, housing and transportation in the county, said Susan Crowley, UF’s assistant vice president for community re-lations. 
The study, “Understanding Ra-
cial Inequity in Alachua County,” will take about six months, she said. Members from the City of Gainesville and UF Health are among those participating.
“This will give us a pretty clear 
picture of what’s impacting the lives of people in Alachua Coun-ty,” Crowley said.
Crowley said the idea for this 
study started when she heard about similar research at a confer-ence in March sponsored by Unit-ed Church of Gainesville.
“To have a preeminent com-
munity, all areas of our communi-ty need to be brought along as we seek to make Gainesville a vibrant place,” she said. 
Jim Wagner, a member of the 
United Church of Gainesville, helped organize the March confer-ence that started the initiative.
Wagner, 74, said the issues that 
Alachua County residents face span from housing to the criminal justice system, all of which im-pact equal opportunity. With the study, he said he hopes research-ers can find the disparities. 
“We’re always going to have 
poverty,” Wagner said. “We’re always going to have people who have more means than they need or can use, but the huge dispari-ties that exist, we hope those will be softened.”
Local institutions look to study racial inequity in Alachua CountyPost-election, supermoon brings Gainesville together
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Gainesville residents and UF students watch the supermoon on the roof of a parking garage above Volta Coffee, T ea and Chocolate on Monday night. About 150 people showed up with dogs, roller blades and cameras to see the moon at its brightest and closest location to the Earth until the next supermoon in 2034.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
From left: Oceane Frelin, a 35-year-old researcher; Kevin Ratkus, a 46-year-old environmental land manager; and Gabriel Tyner, a 39-year-old filmmaker, stand on the roof of a parking garage in downtown Gainesville on Monday night to watch the supermoon rise in the sky, the brightest and closest the moon has been to the Earth in nearly 70 years. “Moons bring people together, ” Ratkus said on the roof with a crowd of about 150 others.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18
Gabriella Castro, a 21-year-old UF pre-veterinary psychology senior, cuts T ofurky for about 20 
students attending the Vegan Thanksgiving on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday afternoon. Vegan Thanksgiving was hosted by the Student Animal Alliance and featured informational ﬂ  iers and vegan alternatives to traditional Thanksgiving foods including potatoes and vegan chocolate chip cookies.
THANKS-VEGAN
Photos by Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff
About 20 students ate vegan food on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday from noon to 2 p.m. for the annual Vegan Thanksgiving organized by the Student Animal Alliance. Different kinds of food were served, inclu-ding potatoes and T ofurky, a vegetarian turkey substitute for vegans. Visitors also received ﬂ  iers about veganism.
Members of the Student Animal Alliance portion vegan food to give to students attending the Vegan Thanksgiving event on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday afternoon.
T eagan Murphy, a 19-year-old UF sociology sophomore, slices pieces of T ofurky to hand to students attending Vegan Thanksgiving, which was hosted by the Student Animal Alliance on Monday afternoon.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$525/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
1/1 with W/D IN unit. 5-10 minutes to cam-
pus, on bus route. Corner unit with no one above you. Complex is gated at night and has a pool, gym, sauna, tanning bed, courts, and free printing. PETS ALLOWED! Cable and HBO included. $879/month. Contact Amanda 727-418-4337     11-18-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
Medical Assistant or Pre-Med student want-
ed for temporary (Nov/Dec) , full time posi-tion with busy pediatric office. Please send resume to worthingtonpeds@yahoo.com or via fax 352-371-4865      11-16-16-5-14
Administrative Assistant needed at Millhopper Montessori School. Must be a self-starter & have the ability to work independently on proj-ects to completion, be comfortable working in an array of areas and environments and must be comfortable accepting new tasks at a moment’s notice. 9:00AM–5:00PM / one hour lunch. Requirements: CPR and First Aid Certification / Training or experience in related field, 4-Year Degree preferred, but not required. Contact Amilda Clark 352-375-6773, or mmschool@millhopper.com    11-16-16-5-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, Background 
Investigation Conducted Affirmative Action/ 
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call Misty @ the EDEP office 955-7766
11-18-16-5-14
STRIVE at GatorWell Grad student Lead Peer EducatorCampus violence prevention workAll identities welcomejobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 499420       11-18-16-
5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Wobbly dessert
6 Pal
9 Vintner’s tub
12 Birdlike
13 Drachma replacer14 B&Bs16 Source of post-
toilet training
anxiety
18 Use too much of,
briefly
19 Many SAT takers
20 Dashboard
feature
21 Reach through
the air
22 Surfer’s
destination
25 Treat, as table
salt
28 Major blood
vessel
29 Male in the hive
30 Sharp-tasting32 Trailer park
parkers
35 Actor Cariou of
“Blue Bloods”
36 Great Depression
recovery program
39 Question of
method
40 Letters on a law
office door
41 Purges (of)42 “The Hot Zone”
virus
44 Quick-as-lightning
Bolt
47 Apt to
malfunction, as
wiring
48 Youngest son of
Queen Elizabeth II
52 Illumination units53 Have __: know
someone
54 “The Night Of”
channel
57 Slender
woodwind
58 Desert plant
suggested by thispuzzle’s circles
61 Dingbat62 Flat-package
furniture chain
63 River through
western
Germany
64 Florida island65 Video game
initials
66 Separates for the
washDOWN
1 Quick punches
2 “Did you __?!”
3 The eyes have
them
4 Murphy’s __5 Standard eggs
purchase
6 Play with Lincoln
Logs, say
7 Coffee hour
vessel
8 Peat source9 Purple shade
10 Artist nicknamed
the “Pope of Pop”
11 Govt. bill
13 And others, in
bibliographies
15 Stuck-up sort
17 Goodyear product21 Pres. who
developed the 36-Across
22 Finish in front23 Stuff to sell24 Itty bit25 Not employed26 Rock groups?27 Man of La
Mancha
30 Packing rope31 Say further33 Chevy’s plug-in
hybrid
34 Rock to music37 Great Lake
bordering four
states
38 Knowledge
seekers
43 Flower source45 Companion of
Bashful
46 Bldg. coolers47 Get no credit for,
in school
48 Walk heavily49 Big name in
puzzle cubes50 British
noblewomen
51 Where to see the
Sun, the Sky andthe Stars: Abbr.
54 Will beneficiary55 Like an arm in a
sling
56 Lyrical lines58 Altoids 
container
59 Island strings60 Question of
identity
By Alex Eaton-Salners©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/15/1611/15/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 15, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
15 Services 18 Personals 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Becky Burleigh and the 
Florida soccer team are using their unusually large roster to their advantage. Find out how, pg. 16Offensive lineman receives weekly honor
Florida football player Martez Ivey was named the Southeastern Conference 
Co-Offensive Lineman of the Week, the league announced Monday. It was his second time earning the recognition this season.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
A week after losing by 21 points 
to Arkansas, Florida defeated South 
Carolina 20-7 at home, lost a hand-ful of starters to injuries, and is now faced with a must-win game at LSU if the Gators want to guarantee a clinch of the SEC East. 
Here’s what we learned from 
coach Jim McElwain’s and quarter-back Austin Appleby’s press confer-ences on Monday:
1. Florida is still reeling from 
injuries
UF will be without at least 
seven starters when it faces LSU on Saturday: center Cam Dillard, linebackers Jarrad Davis and Alex Anzalone, defensive lineman Bry-an Cox, left tackle David Sharpe, quarterback Luke Del Rio and safe-
ty Marcus Maye. 
Maye, a redshirt senior, will not 
return this season after breaking 
his arm against South Carolina last Saturday.
McElwain said defensive line-
man CeCe Jefferson and offensive lineman Tyler Jordan may play against LSU, but they will likely be game-time decisions.
“You’re talking (about) some 
real significant pieces,” McElwain said. “At the same time, we’ve got a bunch of guys jumping in and playing their tails off and that’s fun to see.”
2. Road atmosphere isn’t an 
excuse
After Florida’s 38-28 road loss 
to Tennessee on Sept. 24, Appleby placed some of the blame for the offense’s struggles on the crowd noise.
On Monday, McElwain had a 
message for Appleby and his of-
fense.
“Don’t let it happen again,” 
McElwain said. “They shouldn’t 
have been issues. To me, they were excuses.”
Appleby agreed.
“It’s an excuse,” the quarter-
back said. “When it’s loud and 
you can’t hear yourself think, it’s 
our job to communicate the calls 
from the center all the way out. 
And we’re gonna have a test at our hands with the crowd noise, ob-viously, and it’s nothing we can’t 
overcome.”
3. Appleby’s former team-
mate at Purdue is now LSU’s 
starting QB, and it is “bizarre”
When Appleby and Danny 
Etling were battling to be Purdue’s starting quarterback two years ago, neither thought they would ever end up here.
On Saturday, Appleby and 
Etling will go head to head as start-ing quarterbacks when Florida faces LSU. 
Appleby said he and Etling talk 
all the time and have even formed a group text along with current Purdue quarterback David Blough.
“We’re not mortal enemies,” 
Appleby said. “I’ll probably send him a text here tonight early in the week just to wish him luck, wish him the best. He’s done the same for me all season.”
McElwain, on the other hand, 
is highly intrigued by the matchup.
“That is kind of bizarre, isn’t 
it?” McElwain said.Five things to know
FLORIDA 72, TENNESSEE CHATTANOOGA 61
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Eleanna Christinaki is used to 
leading the Florida women's bas-
ketball team. 
As a freshman last season, she 
was the team’s second-best scor-er. 
That trend continued in career-
defining fashion Monday night.
Playing 36 minutes, Christinaki 
registered a career-high 29 points and nine rebounds in No. 19 Flori-da’s 72-61 victory over Tennessee Chattanooga. “This is an NCAA Tournament 
game,” head coach Amanda But-ler said, “and to beat an NCAA Tournament team on their home 
floor this early in the season … is 
a great indication that our team is growing in every single practice.”
Florida (2-0) wrestled control from the Mocs (1-1) early, largely thanks to the play of Christinaki. Starting her night with a jumper 65 seconds into the game, the 
guard notched 14 points in the 
first quarter alone, shooting 60 percent from the field. 
The sophomore also made her presence felt off the ball, con-tributing three rebounds and two steals in the first 10 minutes of play as the Gators rushed out to 
a 23-13 lead. 
“She created a lot of her of-
fense too with her rebounding,” 
Butler said. “That’s something 
we’ve really been on her about 
the past few weeks.” Christinaki carries Florida to win over ChattanoogaMelissa Smiith / Alligator Staff 
Austin Appleby throws a pass during Saturday's win against South Carolina. Appleby will make his 
fourth start this season against LSU on Saturday. 
 SEE 5 THINGS,  PAGE 14
SEE WOMEN'S HOOPS  PAGE 15FOOTBALL
She scored a career-high 29 points in the win14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
4. McElwain isn’t sure how 
the SEC should’ve handled the 
UF-LSU postponement, and he wants you to ask someone else
After the Southeastern Confer-
ence was forced to postpone Flor-ida’s game with LSU in October due to severe weather, the SEC vowed to never create a situation 
like that again, one where both 
schools were left scrambling to ar-
range a game at a later date.
So, Jim McElwain, what do you 
think should be done to avoid the 
last-minute postponing of games 
that have drastic implications on 
the league’s title outcomes?“I’m a P.E. major,” he said. “I 
don’t know.”
McElwain went on to say that 
most of the logistics of the post-poned game were “totally out of (our) control”, but that he has faith in the SEC to ﬁ  gure out a so-lution.
“I think smarter people will put 
something together,” McElwain said. “They’ll do it right. I’ve got total trust in the SEC. It’s a qual-ity organization led by a guy that knows what the heck he’s doing. It’ll get done right.”
5. Appleby once worked out 
with an NFL Pro Bowl quarter-backA couple years ago, Appleby 
met and worked out with former Purdue quarterback Drew Brees in 
Los Angeles, who happened to be 
training with Tim Tebow.
Appleby and Brees exchanged 
phone numbers, and they have talked a few times. Brees has even called Appleby to offer advice and support him through his college career.
“He’s (Purdue's) Tim (Tebow) 
I guess,” Appleby said. “He’s ob-viously a Hall of Famer.  What he’s done, what he means to that university is huge.” 
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org 
5 THINGS,  from pg.13Appleby worked out with Drew Brees
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain looks on during his team's win over South Carolina on Saturday. The second-year Florida coach lost 35-28 to LSU last season in Death Valley. 
 LSU FOOTBALL COACH
ED ORGERON
Speaking to the media on 
Monday
• “Obviously, Florida is a very well-coached 
football team. We know about their record. 
We know what they have on their line. It's 
not about them. It's going to be about us. ”
• “(Florida’s) defense is one of the best in 
the country. Geoff Collins, a guy I know 
personally, I think he's a very young, dynamic defensive coordinator, does a lot 
of good things with his defense. He's 3-4, 
4-3, okay blitz you. Their speed, their on the 
edge, their attack. Very well versed on the 
defensive line, a lot of stunts that come after 
you. They pressure the quarterback, and 
they have a lot of speed. ”
• “Their running backs are really good players, hard running. They stay inside track, play 
inside, outside zone. Jordan Scarlett, No. 25, 
617 yards (this season) and they have speed 
in (Antonio) Callaway, their receiver. ” TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
However, UF’s energy was 
quickly snuffed out and stymied 
by a Chattanooga team playing 
in front of its home crowd for the 
first time in series history. 
Outscoring the Gators 15-12 
in the second quarter, the Mocs 
cut the deficit to seven, stripping 
momentum from the Gators with 
a buzzer-beating three-pointer 
from Shelbie Davenport. Chelsey 
Shumpert led the Chattanooga 
offense, scoring eight points on 
3-of-4 shooting.
Florida needed an answer — 
with a crowd of nearly 2,500 at the McKenzie Arena making its 
presence felt, the Gators needed 
to replicate their first-quarter ef-
fort. 
They didn’t.
Senior forward Jasmine Joyner 
opened the second half with a la-yup for the Mocs. Freshman guard 
Lakelyn Bouldin flushed a three-
pointer 32 seconds later, forcing 
Butler to take an early timeout. 
But the Mocs continued to at-
tack in waves powered by their 
long-range shooting. Going 3-for-
7 from three-point range in the 
quarter, Chattanooga trimmed Florida’s lead to one by the end 
of the frame.
The Gators needed an answer. 
As the stadium buzzed with noise, Florida sought to find its compo-
sure.
“We’ve spent a lot of time real-
ly trying to develop and reinforce 
our mental toughness,” Butler 
said. “(Just to) have faith in our preparation and not let the fear of losing become a factor.”
That faith paid off. Despite a rocky start, UF kept 
its cool. After allowing Keiana Gilbert to tie the game at 56, the Gators ripped a 16-5 run to close out, shooting 80 percent from the field throughout the quarter. 
Christinaki rediscovered her 
scoring touch. After posting eight points through the second and third quarters, she registered sev-en in the game’s final 10 minutes, sparking her team’s run with her second three of the game. 
“We beat a great team today,” 
Butler said. 
“I’m very, very proud of our ef-
fort. This is a tough place to play.” 
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgWOMEN'S HOOPS,   
from pg.13UF closed with a 16-5 run
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eleanna Christinaki dribbles during her team's 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center. Christinaki was named to the All-SEC Freshman T eam last season.
TOP 25 
BASKETBALL 
RANKINGS
Women
1. Notre Dame
2. Baylor3. Connecticut4. South Carolina5. Louisville6. Maryland7. Ohio State8. T exas9. UCLA10. Mississippi State11. Stanford12. Florida State13. T ennessee14. Syracuse15. Kentucky16. Oklahoma17. Washington18. Arizona State19. Florida20. DePaul21. West Virginia22. Miami (FL)23. Indiana24. Oregon State25. Missouri
Men
1. Duke2. Kentucky3. Villanova4. Oregon5. North Carolina6. Indiana7. Kansas8. Virginia9. Wisconsin10. Arizona11. Xavier12. Louisville13. Michigan State14. Gonzaga15. Purdue16. UCLA17. St. Mary’s18. Syracuse19. West Virginia20. Iowa State21. Rhode Island22. Creighton23. T exas24. Cincinnati25. CaliforniaAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams attempts a layup during Florida's win over 
Kentucky last season.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2016
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
The Florida soccer team gained 
attention back in May when it un-
veiled its roster for the 2016 regu-lar season.
The squad featured 39 players, 
making it the largest group ever in the sport’s 22-year history at UF.
That tremendous depth ended 
up serving as a rallying cry for 
the Gators all fall, providing ex-tra bodies both at practice and in 
games while also creating a sup-
port system that coach Becky Bur-
leigh coined “39 Strong.”
And with No. 9 Florida (16-4-
1) now in the heat of playoff ac-
tion, that mantra is proving to be more influential than ever before.
Due to NCAA regulations, 
a team can only dress 22 active players per postseason match, 
meaning UF had to sit out 17 in its 
contest against Florida Gulf Coast 
on Friday night in the first round of the NCAA Tournament.
The inactive members of the 
team sat in the first row of the 
stands, and while they weren’t 
able to participate, they still made 
a big impact, yelling, shouting and cheering their teammates on 
to a 3-0 shutout over FGCU at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
“It was like they were on the 
bench because they were so loud 
and right there,” Burleigh said. 
“When we have 39 people all pulling for one another, no one 
else has that. No one else in this 
tournament has that. I think for 
us it’s a huge factor in our suc-
cess.”
Burleigh has been preaching a 
team-first attitude since the sea-
son began nearly three months 
ago, and she said Monday that her players have bought into the motto since winning the SEC 
Championship on Nov. 6 against 
Arkansas.
“That’s sort of really come 
to life I think particularly in this postseason,” she said. 
“It started at the SEC Tourna-
ment in full effect when we had everybody there, and we saw 
what an impact it had to have so many people pulling for each oth-er, and we carried that on into Fri-
day against Florida Gulf Coast.”
Now, the Gators’ reserves will 
look to help boost their team to a win over unranked Wisconsin on 
Friday in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. The match 
begins at 7 p.m. at Donald R. 
Dizney Stadium.The Badgers (9-4-8) advanced 
to this stage of the bracket after 
defeating Marquette 1-0 in the competition’s first round.
Burleigh said she doesn’t know 
much about Wisconsin, but she 
was quick to give credit to coach Paula Wilkins and the rest of her 
staff.
“She has coached on the big-gest stage at the highest levels and been very successful, so we 
know we’ll have our hands full for sure,” she said.
A story posted to FloridaGators.
com contributed to this report.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
Roster depth paying dividends for Florida soccer team
Eric Glemser / Courtesy of the UAA
Savannah Jordan (top) heads a ball during Florida’s 1-0 win against South Carolina during the 2016 SEC T ournament Semifinals. Jordan is 
one of 39 players on Florida’s roster, the largest group for a UF soccer team in the 22-year history of the program.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The UF  soccer team watches fireworks after defeating Alabama 6-0 on Oct. 20. The Gators continue play on Friday against Wisconsin in the second round of the NCAA T ournament.
 THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Thursday:
• Men’s basketball vs. St. Bonaventure in Lakeland, 7 p.m., 
SEC Network+
• Men’s and women’s swimming and diving @ Georgia T ech Invitational, all day
Friday:
• Men’s and women’s swimming and diving @ Georgia 
T ech Invitational, all day
• Soccer vs. Wisconsin, 7 p.m., SEC Network+
Saturday:
• Football @ LSU, 1 p.m., SEC Network
• Men’s and women’s swimming and diving @ Georgia 
T ech Invitational, all day
• Women’s basketball vs. T emple in Ocala, 1 p.m., SEC Network+
Sunday:
• Soccer (If UF wins on Friday) vs. the winner of Friday’s 
matchup between Auburn/Connecticut 
• Volleyball @ Missouri, 4 p.m., SEC Network