We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 55 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
Florida soccer wins SEC Tournament 
championship
The Gators defeated Arkansas in 
overtime, pg. 13
Hundreds rock with The All-American Rejects
The alternative-rock band performed at UF on Friday, pg. 8
GNV woman helps children through art
She taught crafts to pediatric cancer patients Sunday, pg. 9Follow our election coverage
Read more online, alligator.org/election2016
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After his team was decimated 
by injuries, and after his starting 
quarterback threw two intercep-tions, Jim McElwain stated the obvious.“There’s a lot of positions we 
need to evaluate,” he said.
There’s the linebacker posi-
tion, where No. 22 Florida lost two of its most important starters  — Jarrad Davis and Alex Anza-lone   — to injuries.
There’s the offensive line, where center Cameron Dillard fell to the ground in the ﬁ  rst half screaming in agony after a team-mate rolled on his leg.
And then there’s the quarter-
back, Luke Del Rio, who had his third-straight inconsistent start in UF’s 31-10 loss to Arkansas on Saturday, who McElwain said he considered benching mid-game, who threw a pick-six on his ﬁ  rst play and was sacked for 7-yards on his second to last one. It was the ﬁ  nal thud from a bitter af-ternoon, and Florida is looking to scrub out the taste as soon as possible.
Where do the Gators go from 
here?“The season’s not over,” Del 
Rio said. 
Technically, no. But all of UF’s  
hopes of making it to a potential College Football Playoff — those can be put to bed. 
Even a spot in the Southeast-
ern Conference Championship Game — a prospect that seemed 
PICKING UP THE PIECES FLORIDA 10
 ARKANSAS  31HE MADE TWO 
SURPRISE STOPS.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Stepping out of a black RV with 
the words “Stronger Together” on 
the side, former President Bill Clin-
ton waved to surprised Gainesville residents Saturday afternoon.
They cheered as he began shak-
ing their hands outside of the Ala-chua County Supervisor of Elec-tions Ofﬁ  ce, an early voting polling location. Clinton made two stops 
in Gainesville as part of a bus tour 
to rally voters in Florida for Demo-
cratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, three days before Election Day and on the last day of early 
voting in Alachua County.
More than 100 people crowded 
around the former president, who 
took pictures and selﬁ  es with peo-ple.
Colin Swenson, 45, had just cast 
his vote at the ofﬁ  ce when he heard a commotion.
When he saw it was Bill Clin-
ton, the Gainesville resident made his way through the crowd and shook his hand.
“‘Thank you so much for every-
thing that you did for the country, and I hope it continues under Hill-ary,’” Swenson said he remem-bered telling him.
Swenson, who cast his ﬁ  rst vote 
for Bill Clinton back in the 1992 
presidential election, stressed the 
importance of the current elec-
tion, with the possibility of either Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton 
gaining the power to nominate U.S. 
Supreme Court justices.
“I’m just really hoping for the 
best outcome on Tuesday, and 
for me, the best outcome is no 
Trump,” he said.
Fans of the former president 
walked away exclaiming their ex-
citement from meeting him. 
Chants of “Hillary, Hillary”  On last day of early voting, Bill Clinton visits Gainesville
SEE CLINTON,  PAGE 4
Injuries, loss destroy UF’s playof hopesIsabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Former President Bill Clinton shakes supporters’ hands during his bus tour around Florida on Saturday afternoon. “I am still shaking, ” said Monica Tucker, 45, after taking a selﬁ  e with him. “I am so excited. ”
UF QUEST IS A FOUR-PART 
PROGRAM THAT WILL 
INCLUDE WHAT IS THE 
GOOD LIFE.
By Paige Fry                            
and Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
Starting in Fall 2018, UF students 
will have to take a course that in-cludes What is the Good Life and 
may add additional general educa-tion requirements. 
UF Quest is a four-part program 
that will require students to take not 
only an already-mandatory updated 
version of What is the Good Life, but a social-science or natural-science course, an internship, study-abroad 
course or other work outside the 
classroom and maintain an “e-port-folio” of experiences in the program. The social-sciences or natural-sci-
ences program requirement may add more science gen-ed credits depend-ing on students’ majors.  The third requirement, which pushes students 
outside the classroom for “experien-
tial learning,” could count for zero to three credit hours. The program parts are described as “experiences” 
in the proposed plan.
Angela Lindner, the UF associ-
ate provost for Undergraduate Af-fairs, hosted a conference about the 
development of the program Friday. About 50 people attended the con-ference, which included administra-tors, faculty, community members 
and at least three UF students. 
“The intention of this program is 
to reconnect students to their general 
education,” Lindner said. 
The program’s proposed courses 
may count as part of a student’s general education track or it may be additional separate courses, depend-
ing on the student’s major, Lindner 
said. The program will not limit the number of general education courses available, she said. 
The UF Quest program shouldn’t 
require any additional cost besides the current cost of implementing any new courses at UF, Lindner said. 
Lindner said she has been de-
 UF to implement new undergraduate requirements in Fall 2018
SEE CONFERENCE,  PAGE 4
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  79° LOW  58°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Jacaré Choro concert Monday
Brazilian music ensemble 
Jacaré Choro presents a con-
cert in collaboration with the UF Brazilian Music Ensemble, Digital Worlds Institute and 
Brazilian Music Foundation 
today at the Digital Worlds 
Institute as part of the Brazilian Music Foundation 
International Night of Choro 
Music. The concert will fea-ture UF School of Music facul-ty, graduate students and spe-cial guest artists. The concert is free and open to the public. To learn about how to RSVP, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Authors@UF: Ibram X. Kendi
Ibram Kendi is a profes-sor of African-American history who will talk about his book “Stamped from the Beginning: the Definitive History of Racist Ideas in America” today at 6 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. In this deeply researched and fast-moving narrative, Kendi chronicles the entire story of anti-black racist ideas and their staggering power over the course of American history. “Stamped from the Beginning” uses the life sto-ries of five major American intellectuals to offer a window into the contentious debates between assimilationists and segregationists, and racists and anti-racists. The book has been selected as a National Book Award finalist for non-fiction.
iSTEAM Speaker Series pres-
ents USGS marine ecologistDr. Amanda Demopoulos, a USGS marine ecologist, will speak at the Marston Science Library on Wednesday at 2 p.m., Room L136, on Marston's first floor. Demopoulos has just returned from her latest ocean cruise and will speak on her experiences as a marine ecologist who has explored the deep oceans of the world. The iSTEAM Speaker Series presents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technology, engineering, arts and/or math.
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood Drive hosted by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held from today un-til Nov. 18. All blood donors 
will earn points for their chap-
ters and spirit points toward 
Dance Marathon 2017. Donors 
will receive a free T-shirt and will help save a life. 
Bloodmobiles will be located 
at the Newberry Road Donor 
Center, the Hub, Turlington 
Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining 
Center. For more information, 
email lgbialeck@lifesouth.org 
or call 352-359-0988.
Grace Marketplace Open 
House: 'A Day of GRACE'
Come hungry and enjoy a ca-
tered lunch, listen to live mu-sic by The Jazz Bandits and Uptown Swing, take a tour 
of the local homeless shelter, 
come prepared to do some 
Yoga and/or Zumba, get a chair massage or participate in a pickup basketball game. Find out about Grace Marketplace's plan for a new social-services center for low-income com-munity residents, complete with a contemplative garden. Find out about volunteer op-portunities at their state-of-the-art shelter. The event is on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Grace Marketplace, just one block east of the in-tersection of Waldo Road and Northeast 39th Avenue. Contact Randi Cameon at rcameon@cox.net or 352-359-2603 for more information.
The Magic of Eugene Mullins: 
Crazy EscapesOn Nov. 14 and Nov. 15 at 7 p.m. at the Hippodrome State Theatre, Eugene Mullins will follow in the footsteps of his childhood hero Harry Houdini. Mullins is one of the top es-cape artists in the country. He has captivated audiences with his mind-blowing escapes and breathtaking magic. No lock can hold, no handcuffs can keep, no audience can resist Eugene Mullins as he leaves you breathless with his death-defying escapes and mind-blowing magic.
‘Global Engagement Gator 
Style: My Fabulous Fulbright and Strategies for Successful Intercultural Communication’On Nov. 15 from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Music Building, Room 101, come to the last Fulbright event of this year in celebration of International 
Education Week. For his six-
month Fulbright Core Faculty 
Award, Ed Kellerman, a 
master lecturer in the Dial Center for Written and Oral 
Communications, taught inter-
cultural communication and 
collected data at the Universiti 
Tenaga Nasional in Malaysia. This multimedia presentation 
will feature short, humorous 
videos and stunning photog-
raphy, which illustrate strate-gies to overcome intercultural barriers that involve appreci-
ating cultural symbols, being 
involved with local families as 
well as using the Malay lan-guage effectively. To register, please visit goo.gl/h9gtyl. For 
more information, email mcar-
dec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Survivors of Suicide 
Candlelight Vigil
The 4th Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Nov. 19 at the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 p.m., with a ceremony begin-ning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the com-munity, and refreshments will be provided. The vigil will be sponsored by the Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, please contact Donna Eckel at raggedyds@aol.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 55
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
THE UF QUEST PROGRAM WILL BE DIVIDED 
INTO FOUR “EXPERIENCES” FOR STUDENTS. 
The program is set to launch in Fall 2018 for incoming freshmen. 
Although UF Quest is still developing, here’s what we know now: 4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
broke out as Bill Clinton encour-aged people to vote for his wife.
When Brad James, a UF politi-
cal science senior, saw Bill Clinton was in town on Twitter, he headed to North Main Street for a chance to meet him.
“I love Bill Clinton,” the 
21-year-old said. “He’s a very charismatic guy — very cool lead-er.”
After meeting Bill Clinton for 
the first time in St. Augustine, where the former president gave a speech, James said he was hoping to get a picture with him.
After visiting the office, Bill 
Clinton stopped by a gathering of canvassers and Hillary Clinton supporters outside of Caribbean Queen, located on the intersection of Northwest Fifth Avenue and Northwest Sixth street.
When Ed and Sarjit Kellerman 
heard the former president was 
stopping by, they changed their 
Saturday plans.
“We dropped everything we 
were going to do, and we ran out 
here,” Sarjit Kellerman, 64, said 
as she carried a lifesize cardboard 
cutout of Bill Clinton playing the 
saxophone.
Ed Kellerman handed Bill Clin-
ton a frame filled with about eight 
buttons, one of which had a photo 
Ed Kellerman took of Bill Clinton 
when he visited UF in 1992.
“He thought he wanted me to 
get him to sign it,” he said, “but I 
told him ‘No, that’s for you.’”
The 64-year-old UF master lec-
turer also got Bill Clinton to sign 
his shirt.
Sarjit Kellerman said her hus-
band has collected political mem-orabilia over the years, mostly from presidential elections. In 
their house, a cutout of President 
Barack Obama and hundreds of 
buttons, stickers and banners from 
different campaign rallies abound.
She added that being able to 
vote is what makes the U.S. demo-cratic system work.
“This political process is very 
sincere,” she said. “We have a 
voice; we have a right.”
For her, Hillary Clinton is the 
best and most qualified presiden-tial nominee. She said she believes 
it is time the U.S. elected a wom-
an as president and caught up to other countries that have women 
leaders.
“We think Hillary has what it 
takes,” she said. “She can do it.”
@Melissagomez004
mgomez@alligator.org CLINTON,  from pg. 1He took selfies and spoke with supporters
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Former President Bill Clinton takes a selfie with a supporter during 
his bus tour in Florida on Saturday afternoon on Main Street.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Citizens can get a free cup of 
coffee and a doughnut by showing their “I Voted” sticker this week.
Mi Apa Latin Cafe started giving 
out free medium cafes con leche Thursday for those who showed an early-voting sticker or a photo of 
themselves wearing it. The Krispy 
Kreme on Northwest 13th Street 
will give out a free doughnut to voters on Election Day.
Mi Apa is giving away coffee 
at its Gainesville and Alachua lo-
cations and will continue to do 
so through Tuesday, said Pamela Sanchez, a manager at Mi Apa’s Gainesville location. 
On Tuesday only, customers at 
Krispy Kreme’s Gainesville location can get any one doughnut of their choice with their voting sticker, said Shonda Lewis, a Gainesville 
Krispy Kreme employee. Stickers 
from both Election Day and early 
voting will be accepted. 
At least 100 customers have tak-
en advantage of Mi Apa’s free cof-
fee so far, Sanchez said. Between 
Sunday and Tuesday night, San-
chez said she expects more than 20 voters per day to show their stick-ers.
Mi Apa owner Peter Ynigo 
started the promotion in order to give back to loyal customers and encourage citizens to participate in this year’s election, Sanchez said.
The Cuban-style restaurant first 
posted the offer to its Facebook 
and Instagram accounts to alert 
customers Thursday, she said. It’s the first time Ynigo has provided the incentive.
“He wanted to make it really clear we don’t care who you vote for — but it’s really important that you go out and vote,” Sanchez said.
Kaitlyn Hosticka, an area co-
ordinator for the UF Department of Graduate and Family Housing, said although free coffee is not the 
reason she’s planning to vote Tues-
day, she likes the idea.
“It’s extremely important that 
people go out and vote because there’s a lot at stake,” she said. Mi Apa and Krispy Kreme 
to reward voters with 
free coffee, doughnuts
ALACHUA COUNTY 
EARLY VOTING 
Mail-In Ballots
Republican: 8,129
Democrat: 13,966Other: 4,591T otal: 26,686
Early Votes
Republican: 13,212Democrat: 28,079Other: 9,809T otal: 51,100
Provisional Ballots
Republican: 6Democrat: 12Other: 8T otal: 26
Election Day (Tuesday)
Bring a valid ID: Driver’s license, student ID, debit or credit cardWhen to vote: Tuesday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.T o find your precinct, visitvotealachua.com/Voter-Information/Precinct-Finderveloping the program since Sep-tember 2015. She meets with an advisory council of about 25 UF students once a month to get a stu-
dent perspective. 
While a lot has to be deter-
mined about UF Quest, four task 
forces are in place to outline the curriculum for each “experience.” 
Each part is one semester long, 
with the exception of the online 
portfolio, which ideally is complet-ed throughout the previous three parts. 
The first core experience will re-
quire students to take a newer ver-sion of What is the Good Life, the start of students’ “purpose explora-tion” to connect first-year students with each other. Andrew Wolpert, the director of What is the Good Life, said he’s aware that there are negative opinions about the course and that he is trying to figure  out how to advertise UF Quest and his course to students. 
“This class does force people 
to come together who may not otherwise,” he said, adding that he doesn’t understand why the requirement keeps students from enjoying the course.
The second core experience 
will require students to select one of eight three-credit courses in ei-ther the social sciences or natural sciences. David Miller, the chair of the second core-experience task force, said those courses have yet 
to be selected. 
The third core experience, 
or “experiential learning,” will 
require students to participate in activities outside of the classroom, such as internships, research or a study-abroad program, for a semester. 
For the online portfolio, the 
fourth core-experience task force is still deciding how best to imple-ment the portfolio and what plat-form to use, said Elayne Colón, the chair of the fourth core-experience task force. Lindner said she imag-ines it to be a supplement to a stu-
dent’s transcript. 
TJ Pyche, one of three stu-
dent members of UF’s University 
Curriculum Committee, said he wished more students had attend-ed the conference. 
“I think this is a big issue,” the 
21-year-old UF journalism senior said, adding that it will take a lot of input from students and faculty to develop the program. 
@paigexfry
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
pfry@alligator.org 
CONFERENCE,  from pg. 1Most of the program is still in development• First experience: Students will take an updated version of What is the Good Life (IUF 1000). They will discuss their purpose and direction in life.  
• Second experience: Students will choose one three-credit course from up to eight different course options. The course, either a social-sciences or natural-sciences course, will either fulfill a general-education requirement already in place or be an additional gen-ed credit, depending on major. • Third experience: Students will take part in a semester’s worth of “experiential learning, ” such as research, internships, study abroad, community service and public service. 
• Fourth experience: Students will keep an e-portfolio of their work from the previous three experiences. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
THE DOG WAS IN THE CAR 
WHEN IT WAS STOLEN. 
By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer
After shooting and injuring a man, 
stealing his car and leading police on a 
high-speed pursuit — with a puppy in the 
back seat — a Gainesville man was arrest-
ed Friday, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said in a news release.
At about 3 p.m., 27-year-old Johnny 
Lee Coleman III shot Roland Loog, the former director of Visit Gainesville, in the arm and stole his white Subaru Legacy in the 1600 block of SE Williston Road, ac-cording to an ACSO arrest report. Shortly 
after, a Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer noticed 
Coleman driving the stolen car and began chasing him after he refused to pull over.
In released dashboard camera footage, 
ACSO and GPD personnel are seen speed-ing after Coleman, reaching over 100 mph, for several minutes on U.S. 441 south-bound. An ACSO deputy ended the chase by bumping the back of the stolen car in 
Micanopy.
A silver AMT .45 semi-automatic hand-
gun and four Xanax pills were found in the 
car, according to the report. Loog suffered 
a non-life-threatening gunshot wound and 
is recovering at a local hospital, according to the release.
When checking the car, deputies found 
a small brown dachshund puppy in the 
back seat, according to the release. The 
dog belonged to a female passenger who had been in the car before Coleman stole it. The puppy is currently being cared for 
by Alachua County Animal Services.
Coleman was arrested and taken to the Alachua County Jail on charges of ﬂ  eeing law enforcement, carjacking with a weap-
on and not premeditated murder. He re-mains in custody, as of press time, in lieu of a $931,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org Puppy in the back seat for GNV 
man’s theft, high-speed pursuit
Courtesy to the Alligator
A Gainesville Police officer stands with a dachshund puppy found in the backseat of a white Subaru Legacy following a high-speed chase on Friday. The puppy was given to Alachua County Animal Services until its owner, a female passenger who had been in the car, could get it.
Janine Wolf / Alligator
ShandsCair 2, an EC13-model helicopter, sits in the sun during the 35th anniversary celebration of UF Health’s ShandsCair on Saturday. It is just one of three helicopters used to transport patients from the scene to the UF Health Shands Hospital, a level-one trauma center.
By Janine Wolf 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Barry Gebhard, a lead pilot with UF 
Health’s critical-care transport system, has 
saved a lot of lives during his 24 years of ﬂ  y-ing helicopters, but one patient stands out.
“Blond hair and the biggest blue eyes,” 
he said of an about 6-year-old girl, who he ﬂ  ew from out-of-state a day after she was re-leased from the hospital for previous injuries in a car accident that killed both her parents. Despite the situation, Gebhard said it was her smile and chipper attitude that made the girl memorable.
“We see some really horrible things — 
this wasn’t it,” he said.
Gebhard was one of the 130 ﬁ  rst-re-
sponders who attended the celebration Sat-urday morning for the 35th anniversary of UF Health’s ShandsCair. Since its launch in 1981, the program has saved about 72,000 
lives nationally and internationally.
Three large helicopters and several am-
bulances were scattered across the Shand-
sCair hangar, located at 2101 SW 16th Ave., for families to explore Saturday.
“We have a 3-year-old who loves heli-
copters and ambulances,” said Kyle Pennell, who attended with his wife and son. “He’s having a blast.”
“I just like to dance in them,” 3-year-old 
Killian said as he joyously emerged from the 
ambulance.
Staccie Allen, the program director for 
ShandsCair and a certiﬁ  ed ﬂ  ight-registered 
nurse, said she has ﬂ  own hundreds of trips to bring others to UF Health Shands Hospi-tal.
“We function in controlled chaos,” she 
said. “To be able to make a difference in someone’s life is powerful.” Shands celebrates 35 years of 
helicopter patient transport  CRIMEThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Get out and 
vote tomorrow 
Tuesday marks a monumental day in our history. 
Our nation will decide who they want to lead the good march into the future. We here at the Alliga-tor encourage each and every one of you, Democrat, Republican, Independent and Libertarian alike, to 
please go out to the polls tomorrow and cast your votes.
As Floridians especially, we have a solemn obligation to 
vote. In states like Texas, California and New York, the vot-ers are already decided on what color their state will vote tomorrow. We here in Florida have an unusual responsibil-ity. Like Ohio, our state has no consistent political leaning. Moreover, given how many electoral votes we carry, we have a large inﬂ  uence over who will become the next presi-dent of the U.S. Given this, every single one of you read-ing this ought to get out and vote tomorrow if you haven’t already. Each and every vote counts in this election, and if you stay home tomorrow, you’ll take a vital vote away from the candidate you otherwise support. When entire groups of people have this mindset, it literally changes the course of elections.
We know it can be disheartening to vote. Sometimes, 
people feel like by voting they are contributing to a system of corrupt politics. If you are frustrated with insider control — the inﬂ  uence of money and the political and business elite — by not voting, you’re accepting that the status quo is acceptable. Ironically, choosing not to vote cedes more power to those you oppose than voting. We have the privi-lege of living in a democratic nation with free elections, and when you choose to not vote, you choose to not take responsibility for that democracy.
In 2008, four out of every 10 eligible Americans chose to 
stay home on Election Day. Literally 40 percent of our coun-try either forgot about the election or actively decided to not partake in it. Given the coverage our media has on election years, it’s doubtful people simply forgot. Democracy works best when more people engage in the process, not fewer.
Even if the presidential race frustrates you as much as 
it does us, there are other things on the ballot. Nationally, we are deciding on who will speak on our behalf in the Senate and House of Representatives. In Florida, we are de-ciding who will occupy state senator seats, state representa-tive seats and four amendment referenda that could change Florida’s approach to solar electricity, medical marijuana and tax exemptions for disabled ﬁ  rst-responders and low-income senior citizens. Locally, we in Gainesville will have to elect a new sheriff. It’s been argued that local political forces have more inﬂ  uence on your daily life than national political forces. So if the national election really turns you off from the voting process, at least think about how your life could change as a resident of Gainesville.
As George Jean Nathan once said, “Bad ofﬁ  cials are 
elected by good citizens who don’t vote.” This quote could not be more true for this election. This is perhaps the most polarizing election in our collective memory as a nation. Never before have we seen such radical positions, such pas-sionate defenses and such bold claims made by our politi-cians. The best way to promote those who can do good for authority is to vote for them, and the only way you can stop those who can do bad is to vote against them.
Clinton’s emails, Trump’s words aside — just vote
The Clinton name comes with strong con-
notations of scandal, and this past week just added to it with the latest email sna-
fu about Huma Abedin’s emails being 
on Anthony Weiner’s computer. Even if 
there was no criminal activity, the announce-ment of an investigation so close to Election 
Day creates doubt. Although Election Day is 
tomorrow, these scandals will linger long af-ter, perhaps throughout a Hillary Clinton presi-dency.
The people who don’t read past a headline may have 
already made up their minds that Clinton is inseparable from scandal and crime, even if they don’t fully un-derstand the situation. According to an article by Mat-thew Yglesias for Vox.com, “network newscasts have, 
remarkably, dedicated more airtime to coverage of Clin-
ton’s emails than to all policy issues combined.” 
Because of the murkiness surrounding Clinton, un-
decided voters might not think their vote makes much of a difference. Voters who might have voted for Clinton just because she’s not Trump may ﬁ  nd less of an incen-
tive to make it to the polls.
It seems Clinton will be president even though many 
of her votes are not enthusiastic votes but rather “not 
Trump” votes. Unlike President Barack Obama, who had the enthusiastic support of college students, Clin-
ton has not been as successful at courting a pro-Hillary 
vote. David Smith, in an article for The Guardian, wrote that Clinton is trailing Obama’s 2012 per-formance, as indicated by requests for early ballots. In recent weeks, Clinton has increas-
ingly used celebrities and other surrogates 
to campaign for her to ramp up enthusiasm among young people, with “How to Get Away With Murder’s” Aja Naomi King tour-
ing several Florida universities last week. 
Clinton certainly isn’t the ﬁ  rst presidential candidate to use celebrities to campaign on her behalf, but with lagging enthusiasm 
among young voters, it seems increasingly desperate.
Clinton may be elected president tomorrow, but that 
does not mean she has the full enthusiastic votes of people who believed she was the best candidate. Al-though there are always the voters who say they are 
picking between the lesser of two evils, this election 
seems to have increased this type of voter. This elec-tion does have enthusiastic voters, but they are more enthused by the democratic process than by a candidate — the fact that they are taking a stand at all in an elec-
tion so polarizing is enough. People who ordinarily do 
not make political posts on Facebook will not hesitate to post a picture of themselves with an “I Voted” sticker and a caption about not voting for Trump. Generally, 
Trump voters seem enthusiastic that he will make a 
change, while Clinton voters are more spread out about their enthusiasm — with voters ranging from those who volunteer for the campaign to those who would vote third party if they didn’t live in a swing state — which 
is why the scandals so close to Election Day should not 
lull voters into complacency.
Whether it’s with enthusiasm or not, go out and 
vote. This election has too high-stakes for anyone to 
sit at home on Election Day or not cast an early ballot.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and journalism 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“This election has too high-
stakes for anyone to sit at 
home on Election Day.”MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As we all know, ‘tis the season. I’m 
not talking about Christmas season, but that is fast-approaching. Are you ready? I know I’m not. Anyway, I di-gress. It is certainly election season, 
and fewer than 48 hours after this is published, we will know who will be our president for the next four years. That is equally cool as it is ter-rifying. Good luck, America. Again, I kid. I am talking about ﬂ  u season.
Just what we all need, right? Fortunately, 
we have a very helpful way to make ﬂ  u season a lot less scary. Unfortunately, a great many people do not utilize it. Some people are afraid 
because they don’t know what it actually does. 
Some people are just lazy. Some people don’t believe in this method of disease control.
Vaccinations. I don’t really remember when 
this became such a polarizing topic, but it ab-solutely is. I’ve noticed people tend to not take a middle ground on this issue. You are either extremely pro-vaccination and do things like write columns to try to convince people to 
agree with you, or you think vaccinations are a terrible idea, are dangerous and  are 
something only irresponsible par-ents engage in. Well, dear reader, I’d like to use my allotted space in this ﬁ  ne publication to show you 
why I am one of the former.
First, vaccinations, as a general 
rule, do not give a person the dis-
ease they are trying to prevent. The vaccine contains the antigens for that disease, meaning it’s basically giving you the tools to ﬁ  ght it as op-posed to you having to start from scratch upon exposure. I have overheard sev-
eral people discussing their reasoning for not 
wanting a ﬂ  u shot, and the No. 1 reason was that they didn’t want to get the ﬂ  u. The injec-tion is not a live virus. You will not get the ﬂ  u from a ﬂ  u shot.
Second, vaccines do work. Not every vac-
cination is mind-blowingly effective, especially ﬂ  u vaccines — as each year the strain is not the same as the previous. The vast majority of vac-
cines are between 85- to 95-percent effective. I promise your immune system by 
itself is not this effective, no matter how healthy you are.
Third, vaccines do not cause au-
tism. Some contain an ingredient 
called thimerosal, which is a preser-
vative used to prevent contamina-tion of multi-dose vials of vaccines. This was studied extensively, and all studies concluded there is not a link between autism spectrum disorders and vaccinations. Other ingredients have raised concerns as well, but to 
date, there have been no links found between 
vaccines or their ingredients and autism spec-
trum disorders.
Fourth, vaccines do not overwhelm a young 
immune system. Take a moment and think of all the diseases a child could get instead. Polio, mumps, measles, diphtheria, tetanus, whoop-ing cough and hepatitis make up just a fraction of the list. Each and every one of these diseases has killed people, and they could kill a child 
who is left unprotected, too. They may seem obsolete at this point, but outbreaks still hap-
pen. Also, it is safe to give children many vac-cines at once or close together. The immune system has an immense capacity to respond safely to vaccinations. 
We have spent decades upon decades re-
searching. Scientists have made incredible breakthroughs, and diseases that once could very easily kill people hardly affect the popula-tion anymore. Refusing to vaccinate not only means you or your family could be at risk. Not everyone is able to receive vaccinations due to illness or medical treatment. Electing to not be vaccinated puts these people at risk, who are 
not as lucky as we are. We have this amaz-
ing technology that can quite literally save our lives, but some of us choose not to, and much of the reasoning behind this decision is ﬂ  awed. Please, I beg of you, educate yourself. Test your objections against the facts. Protect yourself, and help protect the rest of us.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
Why vaccinations are a necessity and a health beneﬁ  t, not a terrible ideaColumn
Taylor
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
THE ALL-AMERICAN REJECTS 
WERE PAID $65,000 
TO PERFORM. 
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two American rock bands told 
Gainesville residents and students to 
go out and vote during a Friday-night 
concert.About 7,500 people attended UF’s 
“Rock the Vote” concert on Flavet 
Field. 
The All-American Rejects, who 
headlined the event, were paid $65,000, and the opening act, Magic Man, was paid $25,000, wrote Dillon Knox, the chairman of Student Govern-ment Productions, in an email.
“We believed these bands would 
excite the campus and put on a great show that would be very well attend-ed, and that was the case,” Knox said.
Phillip Duong, 21, waited for more 
than an hour for a chance to see one of 
his favorite bands, The All-American 
Rejects. 
“They remind me that punk isn’t 
dead,” the UF nuclear engineering se-nior said. “Every time I listen to them, 
it gives me energy.”
The band’s hour-and-a-half per-
formance was peppered with politi-
cal jokes and expletives from the lead 
singer, Tyson Ritter.
“(We) are standing on the precipice 
of watching human wrestling,” he said, 
referring to the presidential election. 
After playing some of their hit 
songs, Ritter said the band wrote a song speciﬁ  cally for the election, called “DGAF,” about doing what you want without a care. 
After the ﬁ  nal song, he threw four 
drumsticks and a guitar pick into the audience.
AJ Hochsztein, 21, was hit on the 
chest with the pick. She said she con-
sidered selling it but decided against it. 
“I think it’s cooler just to keep it,” 
the UF psychology junior said. “I might 
put it on my wall.”  Rock concert encourages students to vote 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Tyson Ritter, the lead singer of The All-American Re-
jects, performs during the free “Rock the Vote” con-cert on Friday evening on Flavet Field. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
The crowd sings and takes pictures of The All-American Rejects during their “Rock the Vote” performance on Friday evening on Flavet Field.
HE CUT INTO ONCOMING 
TRAFFIC, POLICE SAID.
By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a Georgia 
man after he led an ofﬁ  cer in a high-speed chase Thursday.
At about 10 p.m., Jevon Maurice 
Graham, 39, sped westbound on West University Avenue at more than 70 mph in a 35 mph zone, according to a police report. Graham passed slower-moving 
cars over the double yellow line into on-
coming trafﬁ  c, causing cars near him to 
swerve to avoid being hit.
In the 6800 block of W. Newberry 
Road, Graham tried to turn into The 
Oaks Mall and struck a curb, nearly hit-ting a telephone pole and bushes, ac-cording to the report. He then kept driv-ing through the mall parking lot, making his way back onto West Newberry Road going eastbound.
The GPD ofﬁ  cer then bumped the 
back of the car in an attempt to stop the 
chase, according to the report. Graham’s 
car swung back and forth, but Graham 
regained control, turning around before 
hitting a car at 4800 W. Newberry Road.
After hitting the car, Graham kept try-
ing to drive away, according to the re-
port. The ofﬁ  cer then used the pushbar, the grille on the front of his car, to pin the car into the center median. Graham ﬂ  ed on foot before he tripped and fell in a parking lot near Gainesville Health 
and Fitness, allowing the ofﬁ  cer to arrest 
him. 
He was arrested on charges of ﬂ  eeing 
a police ofﬁ  cer and reckless driving. He 
was released from the Alachua County 
Jail on Sunday on a $10,000 bond and could not be reached for comment. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org Georgia man leads GPD in high-speed chase before hitting car
Graham
“They remind me that punk isn’t 
dead.”
Phillip Duong
UF student SHE TAUGHT CRAFTS 
TO PEDIATRIC CANCER 
PATIENTS ON SUNDAY. 
By Robyn Wilbur
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two pediatric cancer patients 
twisted green pipe cleaners around 
clothespins as they made alligators 
and turtles at a crafts event Sunday.
Elyse Hancock, 9, worked along-
side her friend Veronica Dillow, 8, 
at Depot Park’s Children’s Arts & 
Crafts event as a woman moved between them, helping them make their critters. The two met in third grade at their school in Lake City, Florida, after learning they both had the same kind of leukemia.
After they made their animals 
in the pavilion, Joy Graham Miller, who has been teaching arts and crafts in Gainesville for almost 50 years, hot-glued googly eyes on them. Throughout the four-hour event, she helped about 25 kids with their crafts, which were made of recycled materials she collects. 
Miller, 62, said she has reused 
materials for kids’ crafts since she 
was 13. In addition to pipe clean-
ers, she also used Kool-Aid boxes and water bottle caps. She said Sunday was the ﬁ  rst time she has taught at the event at Depot Park.
She said she started teaching 
crafts because it shows kids that they can build things if they put time into it.
“I love teaching kids that they 
can do something with stuff all around them, so I recycle,” Miller said. 
Kristy Hancock, Elyse’s mom, 
said events like Miller’s craft sta-tion allow the girls to keep in touch 
despite doctors’ appointments. 
“I love working with kids — 
they’re amazed at stuff adults take 
for granted,” Miller said. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
WALKING DOWNTOWN
Gainesville citizens walk through downtown during the 35th Annual Downtown Festival & Art Show on Sunday afternoon. The event had 240 local and national artists and shut down several streets downtown, including part of University Avenue.
Robyn Wilbar / Alligator
Surrounded by her family, Joy Graham Miller shows David, 7, how to make a toy turtle out of pipe cleaners and bottle caps on his birthday on Sunday.
 GNV woman helps children through artMONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new 
BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/
ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus 
rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-
9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-14-
16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Live Next to Campus
Big, clean, furnished room in 3/1.
$567/mo. UF Law housemates.
Call Connor: 904-718-5943      11-8-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? 
Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Ashley mission style recliner in very good condition. Brown faux leather, walnut 
arms and sides for sale $250.00  352-377-1851    11-7-16-3-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosMONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Encircled by
5 Note from the
boss
9 Strolls through
the shallows
14 Calf-length skirt15 Words while
anteing
16 Make a speech17 High school
infatuation
19 Wash lightly
20 Slowpoke in a
shell
21 Worker’s
allowance for
illness
23 Tide table term26 U.K. flying squad27 Detriment to air
quality
30 A few hours for
doing whatever
36 Prune, as a
branch
37 Colombian
metropolis
38 Capital of
Morocco
39 Not a close
game, a headlinefor which mayinclude the endof 17-, 30-, 46- or63-Across
43 Runway gait
44 Taunting remark
45 Bobby of hockey46 Rich coffee
lightener
49 “The __ the limit!”50 One hovering
around theflowers
51 Future atty.’s
exam
53 Ground beef dish58 Coffeehouse
flavor
62 Quarterback’s
“Snap the ball atthe second ‘hut’”
63 One of two
Senate“enforcers”
66 Tall story?67 Ohio border lake68 Roof overhang69 Place for road trip
luggage
70 Amount owed71 Scott who sued
for his freedom
DOWN
1 Lbs. and oz., e.g.2 Personal bearing
3 Bit of brainwork
4 “Fine” eating
experience
5 Former Russian
space station
6 Grounded Aussie
bird
7 “Swing and a __,
strike one”
8 Available for the
job
9 Company
employees, as a
group
10 Like the Mojave
11 “The X-Files”
agent Scully
12 Crafts website
13 Experiences with
one’s eyes
18 MLB’s Indians,
on scoreboards
22 Litter box user24 Slightly25 Paperwork
accumulation
27 Walk through
puddles
28 __ Carlo29 Met performance31 Gnatlike insect32 Kit__: candy bar33 Former Apple
laptop34 Comedy’s Cable
Guy
35 Galactic
distances: Abbr.
37 Urban distance
unit
40 Toyota RAV4,
e.g.
41 Lab vessel
42 PCs, originally47 Top corp. officer48 Gathered from
the field
49 Stuck in a hold52 Acker of “Person
of Interest”
53 Castle protector54 __’acte55 Westernmost
Aleutian island
56 Jacob or Esau57 Taxi meter figure59 Scorch60 50-Across home61 Made fun of64 Make fun of65 Vietnamese New
Year
By Brock Wilson
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/07/1611/07/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 7, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. In 2015, Alex Rodriguez became 
the second player to belt 30 or more 
homers in 15 major-league seasons. 
Who was the first?
2. How many combined years did 
Chuck Tanner and Jim Leyland man-
age the Pittsburgh Pirates?
3. When was the last time before 
2015 that Duke’s football team won 
a game without scoring a touchdown?
4. How many times have the Atlanta 
Hawks reached the conference finals following the franchise’s move from 
St. Louis?
5. Who was the last Chicago Black-
hawk before Patrick Kane in 2016 to win the Hart Trophy as the NHL’s 
Most Valuable Player?
6. Name the first driver to win a race 
in all three major NASCAR series: 
Cup, Xfinity and trucks.
7. Who are the only two male tennis 
players to win all four Grand Slam tournaments in the same calendar 
year?
Answers
1. Hank Aaron.
2. Twenty — Tanner managed nine 
seasons (1977-85), and Leyland fol-lowed with 11 (1986-96).
3. It was 1978 (3-0 against Wake 
Forest).
4. Three times — the 1968-69 sea-
son, 1969-70 and 2014-15.
5. Stan Mikita, in 1968.6. Ken Schrader, who completed the 
“triple threat” in 1995.
7. Don Budge (1938) and Rod Laver 
(1962, ‘69).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 31, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
Looking for a student with strong excel/num -
ber skills, accurate and details oriented to support our digital marketing team. Flexible 
schedules (4/5 hours a week). Join our team! Email resume and cover letter to morandot -
ti@dibari-id.com or call  305 570 9385    11-
7-16-5-14Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible Lawyer
Douglas A. Willis
Reasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-
21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWant to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/7- 11/10 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.    11-7-5-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Office Assistant: One of these passions- FX Show Justified/health & fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, love to read, math interest. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsroth -
stein@gmail.com     11-7-16-5-14
PT cleaners needed for home/apt/office cleanings ..day and night positions available. $ 8.50/hr weekly pay &must own a reliable car and be able to pass a drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868    11-8-5-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
The dominant hitting of Alex Holston led UF volleyball to its 10th-consecutive win on Sunday. Read the story, pg 16UF women's tennis player picks up titles
Junior Anna Danilina won both the singles and doubles titles on Sunday at 
the Dick Vitale Intercollegiate Clay Court Classic in Lakewood Ranch. In the 32-player event, she dropped one set against her singles competition and teamed up with senior Spencer Liang for the doubles title.  By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The golden goal came in the last 
minute.
Senior Meggie Dougherty How-
ard sent a shot toward senior Brooke Sharp, who headed the ball over the 
hands of Arkansas’ goalkeeper and into the back of the net.
With that goal, the No. 15 Florida  
soccer team repeated as Southeast-ern Conference Tournament Cham-pions, defeating No. 19 Arkansas 2-1 in overtime on Sunday in Orange Beach, Alabama. 
Florida hadn't won back-to-back 
conference titles since it won six-consecutive conference tournaments from 1996 to 2001.
“We knew we had it in us to get this win,” Dougherty Howard said in a release. “We stuck with our game-plan and really fought for each other out there.”
The win marked the Gators' 12th 
SEC Tournament title — a league high — and their fourth title in the last seven tournaments.
But the road to the tournament 
trophy didn’t come easy.
In the quarterﬁ  nals, the Gators needed penalty kicks to advance past Missouri.
In the semiﬁ  nals, Florida shut out 
undefeated No. 2 South Carolina, even after a late run by SEC Offen-sive Player of the Year Savannah McCaskill, handing the Gamecocks their ﬁ  rst loss of the season.
So it wasn’t surprising UF needed 
another dramatic ﬁ  nish in the ﬁ  nals BACK TO BACK
Eric Glemser / Courtesy of the UAA
The Florida soccer team poses after winning the SEC T ournament Championship against Arkansas on Sunday. The win gave UF its second title in the last two years.
NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
Luke Del Rio dropped back and tried to squeeze a slant pass in too tight a window to his ﬁ  rst-year re-ceiver, Tyrie Cleveland. 
The ball popped up into 
the hands of Arkansas safety Santos Ramirez, who returned it for a pick-six on Florida’s ﬁ  rst offensive snap in the 31-10 loss on Saturday. 
“It (was) on me,” Del Rio said.The unsettling pass was only the ﬁ  rst 
of many, however, leading UF coach Jim McElwain to ponder benching his starting quarterback. 
“We just didn’t do it,” he said. “But 
it crossed our minds.”
And with the College Football Play-
off now out of the question, McElwain needs to consider a positional change under center if the Gators hope to win the SEC East. 
Del Rio, after all, has thrown six in-
terceptions and just two touchdowns over his last three games.
That just won’t cut it, especially in 
two weeks against an LSU defense that feasts in Death Valley.
But there’s one problem: Florida re-
ally doesn’t have a clear-cut solution to its quarterback woes.McElwain could stick with the strug-
gling Del Rio, who may still be affected by a lingering knee injury. Or he could call upon the services of backup Austin Appleby, who looked paltry in six quar-ters after an eye-popping ﬁ  rst half at Tennessee.
The ﬁ  nal option would be one of 
the raw freshmen quarterbacks, Feleipe 
UF has a quarterback problem, and it may lead to Del Rio's benching 
Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15UF wins SEC Tournament in overtime14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
SALES REP
OF THE MON TH
OCTOBER 2016
KYLIE JOHNSON
major: adv ertising
CONGRA TULATIONS!
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
RUN DATE DEADLINEIN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463
SCENARIOS FOR  
FLORIDA TO WIN THE SEC EAST
• UF wins its remaining two conference games against South Carolina and LSU OR
• UF wins one of its remaining conference games AND T ennessee loses one of its 
remaining three conference games (Kentucky, Missouri, Vanderbilt) OR
• UF loses both of its remaining conference games AND T ennessee defeats Kentucky 
AND T ennessee loses to Missouri and Vanderbilt AND Georgia defeats Auburnall but inevitable just a week ago — isn’t assured, 
as Florida still has to play No. 19 LSU on the road. There’s also Saturday’s game against a Will Mus-champ-led South Carolina team, a matchup that 
would have signiﬁ  ed a sure win a couple weeks ago 
but seems anything but guaranteed now.
“It’s not like we’re 2-7 here. We’re a good team,” 
Del Rio said. “We didn’t play well (Saturday), but 
we’re a good team.”
But if Florida’s injuries, ones which McElwain 
said will be updated on Monday, turn out to have 
season-ending implications, UF will be forced to 
turn to a handful of inexperienced players to ﬁ  ll the void.
This week, Florida will try to pick up the pieces 
of a road game that swept through it like a torna-
do and left nothing but destruction in its wake. At 
least ﬁ  ve regular contributors were injured, includ-ing emerging freshman receiver Tyrie Cleveland and kickoff returner Chris Thompson. If they all miss 
substantial time, it will be devastating for Florida, a 
team that relies heavily on its veteran players. 
So many of them were hurt on Saturday that it 
took a sophomore — defensive lineman CeCe Jeffer-son — to stand up in the locker room after the game 
and address the team.
“Just to see the injuries we had today was bru-
tal,” left tackle David Sharpe said. “CeCe just told the guys to keep their heads up. We’ve still got a lot to play for.”
Yes, there’s Senior Day next week. Yes, there’s a 
rivalry game against the Seminoles on Nov. 26. And there’s even the hurricane-postponed battle in Baton Rouge against LSU, which held No. 1 Alabama to just 10 points in the Tigers’ home loss on Saturday.
Still, it’s clear, while there is still some postsea-
son recognition to play for, the ultimate reward is gone, having slipped through UF’s ﬁ  ngers the same way Arkansas running back Rawleigh Williams slipped through the Gators’ defense on Saturday for 170 total yards and two touchdowns.
There’s a little bit less to play for. And after Saturday’s loss, each Florida player 
knew it.
“You can’t afford to have your head down and go 
in the tank right now,” redshirt senior safety Marcus Maye said. “We can’t afford it as a team.
“We gotta stay together.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg. 1McElwain will update injuries Monday
The Associated Press
Luke Del Rio is tackled by an Arkansas defender during UF’s 31-10 loss on Saturday. Florida coach Jim McElwain said he considered benching Del Rio, who threw two interceptions in the loss.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Franks or Kyle Trask, though that’s a move McElwain 
likely doesn’t feel comfortable with due to their inex-
perience.  
Regardless, McElwain might have to consider shak-
ing things up.
Del Rio’s poor play was excusable up to this point 
mainly because the Gators were winning, which McEl-wain even hinted at after the team’s 24-10 win over 
Georgia.
“Did we win?” he asked after reflecting on his quar-
terback’s performance. 
“Ok. Good. All right. Just wanna make sure.”
But four quarters later in Fayetteville, McElwain 
wasn’t making excuses.
Neither was Del Rio.
The redshirt sophomore assumed the blame for his 
bad throws, most of which were due to poor accuracy 
and execution.
Two glaring examples came in the second quarter, 
when Del Rio underthrew Antonio Callaway on a deep 
post route that fell into a Razorbacks safety’s hands for 
a second interception. Just a possession prior, he over-
shot a streaking Callaway down the sideline that likely 
would’ve resulted in six points.
“I need to be more consistent in my decision making 
and my accuracy,” Del Rio said. 
“Guys have done their job. I need to do mine.”
While Del Rio will probably start against South Car-
olina, McElwain will be faced with an ultimatum if he 
flops out of the gate.
Then what, McElwain?
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg. 13to become back-to-back SEC Tournament Champions.
“It was physical, tight, emotional,” 
coach Becky Burleigh said in a release. “Everything about it was not easy and 
that’s exactly what we need.”
The Gators held the lead for more than 
50 minutes after a goal from senior forward 
Savannah Jordan, but in the 79th minute, 
Arkansas forward Alexandria Fischer tied 
the game at 1 after Florida goalkeeper Kay-
lan Marckese stepped off her line.
With time expiring in regulation, the 
Gators had one more chance to avoid over-time when Mayra Pelayo took a shot. 
She missed the net by inches.So, for the second time in three games, 
Florida’s opponent forced the Gators into overtime.
In the first nine minutes of extra time, 
both teams had chances to end the game, with Florida giving up a corner kick five 
minutes in and Pelayo getting another 
good look that went just wide of the net.
But just as a second overtime period 
looked inevitable, Dougherty Howard 
made a late run down the left side of the 
field and found Sharp open in front of the 
net.
“When I saw her go out wide, I just 
sprinted into the box and she played an 
awesome ball,” said Sharp, who scored 
just her second goal of the season, in a re-lease.
The title wouldn’t have been possible if 
not for Jordan’s first-half offense.
In the 29th minute, Jordan put in her 
80th career goal and 15th of the season off assists from Melanie Monteagudo and Julia Lester.
Jordan also had a team-high three 
shots, with two on goal.  
With the win, the Gators also avenged 
a 2-1 loss to the Razorbacks on Sept. 16. 
“I’m really happy with our whole team 
performance. It was definitely an effort on all ends,” Dougherty Howard said. “We 
fought hard until the end.”
Next, Florida turns its attention to the 
NCAA Tournament and its seeding, which 
will be released Monday.
In 2015, the Gators advanced to the 
Sweet 16 before being eliminated by Duke.
“It was a tough tournament. There’s no 
question,” Burleigh said. 
“We don’t want it to be easy because 
this is the preparation we need going into NCAAs.”
@Lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 13Savannah Jordan had a team-high three shots
The Associated Press
Luke Del Rio looks on during Florida's 31-10 loss to Arkansas on Saturday. Del Rio threw a pair of picks in the game. 
Eric Glemser / Courtesy of the UAA
Savannah Jordan (center) tries to kick the ball during Florida's 1-0 win over South Carolina on Friday in the semifinals of the SEC T ournament. Florida handed the Gamecocks their first loss of the season before advancing to the finals.
Eric Glemser / Courtesy of the UAA
Florida goalie Kaylan Marckese (31) punches away a ball during UF's 1-0 win over South Carolina on Friday night in the SEC T ournament Semifinals. Florida won the SEC T ournament Championship against Arkansas on Sunday in overtime.
LUKE DEL RIO
• 56.7 completion percentage
• 1,358 passing yards
• 8 touchdowns
• 8 interceptions
• 6 games playedAUSTIN APPLEBY
• 61.1 completion percentage
• 470 passing  yards
• 3 touchdowns
• 1 interception
• 4 games playedQB COMPARISON16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2016
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
She hadn’t attempted a swing the 
entire match.
But with Florida volleyball lead-
ing Mississippi State 24-14 in the third 
set on Sunday, UF middle blocker 
Darrielle King took a hard swipe at a 
pass from setter Allie Monserez. The 6-foot-3 freshman connected, slam-
ming the ball down on the Bulldogs’ 
side of the court, recording her ﬁ  rst kill of the match to give the Gators the win.
Behind a fast-paced attack that 
saw Florida hit .554, the No. 6 Gators (22-2, 12-1 Southeastern Conference) 
swept Mississippi State (12-15, 4-9 
SEC) for their 10th-straight victory in conference play. 
Senior hitter Alex Holston and ju-
nior middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan led UF with efﬁ  cient hitting. Holston 
notched 13 kills on 21 attempts, and 
Alhassan, who chipped in two digs and ﬁ  ve total blocks, registered 13 
kills on only 15 attempts.
“Some of her swings out of the 
back row are what we call ‘nasty,’” UF coach Mary Wise said of Holston. 
“Her swings are just angles that are crazy.” 
The Gators had a difﬁ  cult time 
shaking off MSU early in the match despite Holston’s six kills in the open-
ing set. But ﬁ  nally, after a block by 
Alhassan gave Florida a set-point op-portunity, the Gators took the ﬁ  rst set 
25-23 after an error by MSU hitter Evie 
Grace Singleton. 
The Bulldogs cut Florida’s lead to 12-10 in the second set after a service 
error by hitter Carli Snyder. However, 
behind a .617 hitting percentage in the ﬁ  rst two sets, UF powered its way to a 
25-18 victory in the frame. 
The Gators routed the Bulldogs in 
the third set due to the hard serving of freshman Chanelle Hargreaves. With 
Florida leading 14-10, the defensive specialist led a 6-0 run to put the game 
out of reach. The Gators won the set 
25-14 for their sixth-straight sweep.
“Our serving was not the strength 
today, except for Chanelle Harg-reaves,” Wise said. “She got on a run.”On the whole, Florida was consis-
tent. The Gators held MSU to a .226 hitting percentage, recorded 50 digs to the Bulldogs’ 26 and stuffed nine 
shots.
With the win, the Gators tied Mis-
souri (21-4, 12-1 SEC) for the lead in the conference standings. 
“It’s one of our best performances 
here in Starkville on a Sunday after-noon in some time,” Wise said. “Re-
ally proud of this group.”
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgFlorida  volleyball sweeps Miss. State, forces tie for ﬁ  rst in SEC 
It was UF’s 10th-straight win