We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 91 FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
Gators edge past Razorbacks 
in overtime
Florida now prepares to face three 
ranked opponents, pg. 13
Stitching history, one quilt at a time
The quilt art depicts the historical Thomas Center, pg. 3
UF accounting program ranks fourth
It was a nationwide ranking of the best 50 U.S. accounting schools, pg. 5Check us out online
Follow us on Facebook, Instagram @thealligator_ and Twitter @thealligator
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Board of Trustees voted not to give UF 
faculty a larger salary increase Thursday.
At Emerson Alumni Hall, the board settled 
an impasse between itself and the UF United 
Faculty of Florida union about across-the-board salary raises for UF faculty. UFF requested a 2.75-percent increase in salary for all UF fac-ulty in addition to a 2.5-percent merit increase, which went into effect Jan. 1. The Board unani-mously denied the raise due to its inability to af-ford a 2.75-percent increase, said Steven Scott, 
the chairman for the Board of Trustees.
Candi Churchill, a UFF representative, said the 2.75-percent raise was necessary because 
UF faculty should be paid more if the university 
wants to be a top-10 school.
 “This contributes to a feeling of morale as 
to whether faculty feel truly valued by the uni-
versity or if only the top earners are going to continue to be rewarded,” Churchill said.
She said the raises could be funded through 
reserve accounts owned by the university, UF’s Health Science Center and UF Health Shands Hospital.
“We have gone up over $683 million in funds that are not being dedicated to the class-room, to research, to improving the state of 
Florida,” she said.
Scott said the money available in the reserve 
accounts is not enough to pay for the raises UFF 
wants. He said most of the money is for speciﬁ  c purposes and the rest should be saved for emer-gency costs, he said. Churchill said although she didn’t agree with the board’s decision, UFF will continue to ﬁ  ght for salary raises next year. U F Board of Trustees rejects faculty salary increase
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
A bomb-snifﬁ  ng dog searched Stephany Ashton’s class 
Wednesday morning, and she was asked to hand over her cell phone.
These safety measures were taken because Supreme Court 
Associate Justice Clarence Thomas gave a guest lecture.
“I thought we weren’t going to see him at all,” the 23-year-
old ﬁ  rst-year UF law student said.
Thomas spoke to students taking classes in property law and 
the U.S. Constitution at UF’s Levin College of Law this week, said Danaya Wright, a UF law professor. Having Thomas speak was years in the making.
The blizzard this week delayed Thomas’ arrival, but he got to 
UF on Tuesday, she said. While students didn’t know Thomas was coming, faculty did.
“That was really fun, to have students be surprised by a jus-
tice of the Supreme Court,” she said.
Before his arrival, Wright had her students review a Supreme 
Court case where Thomas opposed the majority decision.
“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to interact with any Su-
preme Court justice,” she said.
For Ashton, listening to Thomas joke about his everyday life 
reminded her of some of her own family members.
“He kind of reminds you of someone’s grandfather,” she said.During Thomas’ lecture, Kara Solebello, 25, counter-argued 
another student’s argument before Thomas stepped in.
“The justice challenged me on it,” the ﬁ  rst-year UF law stu-
dent said, but she couldn’t come up with a response. After a few seconds, she said Thomas laughed it off.
“It’s probably the best moment of my life,” Solebello said. 
“I’ll probably put it on my resume.”
@MelissaGomez0004
mgomez@alligator.orgSCOTUS associate 
justice speaks to UF law students  
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
At the age of 20, Hugo Sanchez was homeless.  
Sanchez goes by many names. Friends call him George. 
Family call him Jorge. Fans call him Young Smoothness.
At the age of 28,  he reached a milestone after struggling to 
ﬁ  nd his true home and purpose.
On Thursday, Sanchez not only performed his ﬁ  rst rap 
show, but he did it by opening for Curren$y — one of the orig-
inal members of Lil Wayne’s Young Money Entertainment.
Sanchez has a long way to go, but he’s not afraid to strug-
gle.      
Before ﬁ  nding himself stranded on the same streets where 
he grew up, Sanchez listened to music drifting under his sib-
lings’ doors.
Sanchez is the youngest of ﬁ  ve children, and he is the ﬁ  rst 
of his family to be born in the U.S., not Mexico.
He wrote lyrics and strummed a guitar to stay out of trou-
ble in his Ft. Lauderdale neighborhood.
“I spent a good chunk of my life around criminals,” he 
said. “Gang violence, drugs... It would have been easy for me to fall into it. Music kept me out.”When music means everythingSEE SALARY,  PAGE 4
SEE RAP,  PAGE 8
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Hugo Sanchez, a 28-year-old Gainesville-based rapper, performs for a crowd of about 150 at High Dive as 
the opening act for New Orleans rapper Curren$y on Thursday night. Check pages 8 -9 for more photos.2.75-percent increase was requested
CAMPUS
“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to interact with 
any Supreme Court justice.”
Danaya Wright
UF law professorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Faculty recital: Duo Anno 1647 
featuring Kristen Stoner, flute
The School of Music presents a performance by Duo Anno 1647, including UF faculty member Dr. 
Kristen Stoner (flute) and guest 
artist Manabu Takasawa (piano) from the University of Rhode Island, on Feb. 15 at 7:30 p.m. The performance is in Music Building Room 101 (MUB 101), and it is free and open to the pub-lic. They will perform: “Poem” by Charles Griffes, “Ballade” 
by Frank Martin, “Deep Blue” 
by Ian Clarke, “Sonatina” by Camargo Guarnieri, “First Sonata” by Bohuslav Martinu and “Soliloquy” by Jake Heggie.
Graduate recital: Scott Ziegler, 
organThe School of Music presents an 
organ recital by graduate student 
Scott Ziegler in the University Memorial Auditorium on Feb. 20 at 2 p.m. The program includes chorale preludes, a rumba, a tan-go and a multi-movement tribute to Florida.
The Crossroads Project
“The Crossroads Project: Rising Tide,” coming to First United Methodist Church on Feb. 23 at 6 p.m., is a partnership be-tween science and art that aims to blend performance art with one of the great conversations of our time — human civilization’s growing unsustainability and 
the quest for a truly meaningful 
response. “Rising Tide” unfolds in a series of vignettes explor-ing both natural and human systems, juxtaposing two very different paradigms. The event is free and open to the public, but tickets are required. Reserve your tickets at eventbrite.com.
iSTEAM Speaker Series Presents 
Gators Team PhysicianDr. Kevin Farmer, team phy-sician to the UF Athletic Association and Assistant Professor of Orthopaedics and Sports Surgery at the UF College of Medicine, will speak at the 
Marston Science Library on 
Feb. 8 at 1 p.m. in Room L136 (Marston 1st Floor). Farmer will speak on his experiences as team physician to the Gators and on current advances in sports medi-cine that keep Gator athletes competing at world-class levels. Farmer’s talk is co-sponsored 
by the Marston Science Library 
and the UF Premedical Chapter of the American Medical Student Association (AMSA). The iSTEAM Speakers Series pres-ents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technology, engineering, arts and/or math.
RUB Entertainment Presents Tie-
Dye on the FlyStop by the Reitz Union North Lawn on Feb. 3 starting at 1 p.m. for some free hot chocolate and tie-dying fun. All tie-dye supplies will be provided so make sure to come on by!
The Ark School of Fitness
The Ark School of Fitness will be hosting a community fitness class every Thursday at 5 p.m. starting Feb. 4. The last class will be held April 21. The course is called The Ark Elements.This course will be free and open to all skill levels. The Ark Elements will incorporate el-
ementary gymnastics and core 
stabilization exercises. You can expect to gain better control of your body and acquire new bodyweight skills. All exercises will be modified to meet indi-vidual skill levels and abilities. The application can be found at thearkfitness.com/the-ark-
elements.
'Meaningful Object'
University Galleries at UF is 
pleased to present “Meaningful Object” by Jiha Moon in Grinter Gallery, situated in Grinter Hall on UF’s campus, now through Feb. 5. A multimedia artist born 
in Korea who now works out of 
Atlanta, Moon will show a num-ber of works including paper, ceramics and prints. Blending influences from Korea, Japan, China and the Western world, Moon uses these cues to create multifaceted works. This show features a collection of works 
influenced by everyday objects, 
artifacts and cultural signifiers. To learn more, visit arts.ufl.edu/galleries.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum on Feb. 13Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History playing trivia games. 
The program fee includes admis-sion to the “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” exhibit and participation in trivia night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. un-til 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The program fee is $10 per person or $15 per 
couple, and it’s free for both UF 
students with a valid Gator 1 Card and museum members. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more information, call 352-273-2061.GatorNights
GatorNights will host an Escape-to-Monte-Carlo-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at 
the Reitz Union. The event will 
feature an escape room, obstacle course and acrobat show. The event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “Bridge of Spies” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This 
event is free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students can bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night
The Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida will show 
“Coldwater” today at 7:30 p.m. “Coldwater” follows the story of Brad, a teenager abducted from his home in the middle of the night with his mother’s consent. He is taken to a harsh wilderness reform facility. The teen has no contact with the 
outside world, and a retired war 
colonel in charge prides himself on breaking an inmate’s spirit to correct delinquent behavior. As we learn of the tragic events that led to Brad’s arrival at the camp, unforeseen circumstances threaten to tear the already erod-ing reform facility apart. Brad 
is forced to confront not only 
his fellow inmates and the per-sonnel in charge, but finally his own sense of what is right and what is wrong. Gay Movie Night is held the last Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. A $2 do-
nation is requested to cover the 
cost of snacks.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 91
HIGH  66° LOW  39°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloQUILT ART DEPICTS THE 
HISTORICAL THOMAS 
CENTER.
By Lauren Johnson 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A quilt will forever be displayed at 
the Thomas Center, but it won’t hang 
off a bed.
The City of Gainesville formally 
announced the quilt Tuesday. Mem-
bers of the Fiber Art Bee, a part of 
the Quilters of Alachua County Day Guild, donated the Thomas Cen-ter Quilt to the City of Gainesville’s Parks, Recreation and Cultural Af-fairs Department in October. The quilt took one year and 14 people to make, said Gretchen Brooks, one of the people who worked on it.
The members of the Fiber Art 
Bee wanted to model the quilt after a piece of architecture, she said. 
“We decided we wanted to do an 
iconic representation of Gainesville or Alachua County,” Brooks said.
The Thomas Center beat out 
contenders such as the Hippodrome State Theatre, Century Tower and Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, she said. Twelve Fiber Art Bee members 
randomly selected sections of the photo of the Thomas Center to trans-form into a sliced quilt, in which distinct patches are sewn together to make a complete quilt. 
“We were just wowed that it had 
all came together,” she said. 
The quilt is displayed in the cen-
ter’s conference room. 
“It’s both a beautiful piece of 
art, but for those of us who love the Thomas Center dearly, it is very sen-timental and heartwarming to see,” said Russell Etling, the department’s cultural affairs manager.FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and Fros
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff 
TUNNEL OF POSITIVITY
Ariel Rouse, a 21-year-old UF dietetics junior and a getFruved peer 
mentor, paints inside the Norman Hall tunnel on Thursday. A team from getFruved primed the wall and left paint for people to add their own messages. “We don’t know how long it’ll stay, but we want it to be something nice for people to see and make their own, ” Rouse said.
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff
The Thomas Center Quilt hung on display at the Thomas Center on Thursday. The quilt was split into 12 sections and divided among Fiber Art Bee members.
Stitching history, one quilt at a time 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
Scott said the board couldn’t accommodate the raise unless stu-
dents’ tuition increased, which the university cannot do under a statute 
passed by Gov. Rick Scott.
“We have a governor who believes we should not raise tuition, col-
lege should be as cheap as it possibly can,” he said.
Sumi Helal, UFF’s chief negotiator, said he joined UFF after experi-
encing inadequate treatment and pay in his own department.The raises could be provided through the $19 million in preemi-
nence funding UF received or through tuition from the increase in en-rolled students, the UF professor of computer and information science and engineering said.
“I’m very disappointed,” he said. “We sort of expected it, even 
though we had some hopes.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgSALARY,  from pg 1UF would have to raise tuition for the raiseTHE TRIP IS IN SUMMER B.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
The Center for Latin American 
Studies is monitoring Zika virus be-fore a new study abroad program occurs in Brazil.
UF in Bahia will focus on race 
and inequality in the region known for a diverse population. The trip 
will take place during Summer B 
and costs $4,974.
Rosana Resende, professor of Latin American studies and the fac-ulty program director for the trip, said she’ll host an information meet-ing at 10:30 a.m. Friday at La Casita. During the meeting, she said she’ll address Zika virus, which may cause birth defects in pregnant women.
She said Zika virus, which is 
prevalent in Brazil, can also cause 
flu-like symptoms. She’ll be warn-
ing students about the risks.
“That is absolutely going to be a 
part of my information session,” Re-sende said. “It’s good to talk about.”
Students who go on the trip will 
take two courses covering race and urban development.
Resende said students will visit 
an island slaves escaped from dur-ing Brazil’s colonial times for the first three days. The first three days will also give students Portuguese language instruction.
“People say Brazil used to be a 
racial paradise,” Resende said. “Ba-
hia used to be where black people 
would fully express their culture.”
Resende said she hopes students 
of different backgrounds apply.
“My expectation is that you can 
engage in critical thinking,” she said. “I want students who want to explore.”
Tomi Pasetto Vuorio, a UF inter-
national studies sophomore, said he looks forward to visiting his home country.
“I expect to learn a lot more 
about the local perspective,” the 20-year-old said. “Until you actually go there you can’t appreciate what 
it’s like.”
As of press time, the U.S. Depart-
ment of State has not issued a travel 
warning for Brazil.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org UF Brazil study abroad trip to monitor Zika virus
By Cecilia Mazanec
Alligator Contributing Writer
Danielle Gertner is excited for the day her 
Warrington Welcome students will learn from people, not paper. 
UF’s Warrington College of Business Ad-
ministration is starting a “Human Library” — a library where community members talk about different topics, including oppression, stereotypes and social stigmas. Warrington is looking for Gainesville residents to be “books” and share their stories for the first Human Li-
brary on March 10. 
Gertner, a UF business administration se-
nior, said she is a peer leader for Warrington 
Welcome, a class that introduces freshman business students to the college. She helped plan the Human Library. The college started planning the library in June after a former fac-
ulty member mentioned how successful the 
program was at Illinois State University, said Leigh Smadbeck, an academic adviser and ca-reer coach at the Heavener School of Business.
“It works like a regular library,” she said. When students “borrow books,” they will 
sit in small circles of three to eight students and listen to a story told by a speaker, she said.
“The books are humans that want to share 
their story about hardship and, in some cases, oppression,” Smadbeck said.
They already have speakers signed up to 
talk about alcoholism and being a first-genera-tion student, she said.
“Currently, we’re still in the pilot, so we’re 
still trying to figure out what it looks like,” 
Smadbeck said.
While the program grows, Gertner, 21, said 
she hopes to see books on mental disabilities 
at the Human Library. She hopes students also find topics they’re interested in and wants to see which speakers they find most interesting.
“I think everything starts off small,” she 
said. 
Though the Human Library is only open to 
students in Warrington Welcome, Gertner said she hopes it can grow to be open to all of UF.
“If you have questions about a book, you 
can’t always call the author, but in this case you can,” she said.Warrington College starts Human LibraryBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man ended up in jail after 
his snack craving turned into a criminal 
charge.
Gainesville Police arrested James Don-
ald Robertson Jr., 61, on Wednesday morning after they said he attacked some-one with a bag of potato chips.
It started at about 10:50 a.m. when 
Robertson wanted to buy some chips, ac-cording to a police report.
After finding his preferred chips at the 
Wal-Mart on Archer Road, an employee re-
fused to sell them, according to the report.
When the employee asked Robertson 
to leave, he grabbed the bag of chips and 
threw it in the employee’s face and upper 
chest, according to the report.
Robertson later spoke with police and 
said he threw the chips because he was 
angry, according to the report.
As of press time, the brand of Robert-
son’s favorite chips is unknown.
Tara Haynes, the employee who denied 
Robertson of his snack, declined to com-ment.
Since 2009, Robertson has been found 
guilty on charges of loitering, disturbing the peace, escape, criminal mischief and trespassing, along with two charges of bat-tery, according to Alachua County court 
records.
Police arrested Robertson on a charge 
of simple battery and took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he was released 
Thursday morning on his own recogni-
zance.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org61-year-old 
man throws potato chips
Robertson
Areas with 
Zika virus include:
Brazil
Colombia
Dominican Republic
El Salvador
Puerto Rico
Mexico
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
RACING THE RAIN
UF students biking along Stadium Road wait to cross Gale Lemerand Drive in the rain on Thursday afternoon.CRIMEFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville man 
Wednesday afternoon after they said he 
tried to hit a woman with a chunk of as-
phalt.
At about 4:45 p.m. Wednesday, Jer-
maine David Bright, 34, picked up a 
1-pound piece of asphalt from a parking 
lot and threw it at a woman, according to 
a police report.
She was able to quickly duck and nar-
rowly avoid being hit, the report states.
The incident began with a confronta-
tion between Bright and an unnamed per-son, according to the report. The two ar-gued in the woman’s parking lot, so she asked them to leave.
Bright then cursed at the woman and 
threw the piece of asphalt before running to his mother’s house, the report states.
The rock was later gathered for evi-
dence, according to the report.
Bright has been found guilty of 15 
criminal offenses in Ala-chua County, according to court records, with his 
ﬁ  rst offense occurring in 
2000. Bright’s criminal history includes charges of aggravated battery, 
assault on a law enforce-
ment ofﬁ  cer, larceny and 
possessing drug paraphernalia.
Police arrested Bright on a charge of 
aggravated assault and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as 
of press time, in lieu of a $15,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org Local man arrested for 
throwing asphalt at womanIT WAS A NATIONWIDE 
RANKING OF THE 50 BEST U.S. 
ACCOUNTING SCHOOLS.
By Alena Poulin
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new ranking has UF’s accounting 
program among the best in the nation.
UF’s program ranked fourth in Onlin-
eAccountingDegrees.net’s ranking of the 
50 best accounting schools in the U.S. this week. 
UF ranked behind the University of Il-
linois at Urbana, Texas A&M  University — College Station and the University of Washington.
“We’re very pleased that the rest of 
the world recognizes the hard work that 
everyone tries to do here, from students 
to faculty and staff,” said Gary McGill, associate dean and director of the Fisher School of Accounting.
The program excels because of its rig-
orous coursework and its emphasis on creating students who will be leaders in 
their field, McGill said. 
This includes hiring world-class fac-
ulty, providing rigorous coursework and 
offering a combined degree programs in 
which students can gain both their bach-
elor’s and master’s degrees in accounting over the course of five years, he said.
Although the workload can be diffi-
cult, Jane Lazzara, 20, said she believes 
the hard work is worth the payoff.
“The rigor and reputation of the pro-
gram is definitely true,” the UF account-
ing junior said, “but I don’t think I would be as prepared for the CPA (certified pub-
lic accountant) exam and for the career 
without it.” UF accounting ranks fourth 
Bright
Soldering instructor and The Repurpose Project regular Nelson 
Laffey demonstrates how to apply solder to the tip of a soldering iron to a group of about 15 inside The Repurpose Project. The workshop, Soldering 101, taught attendees the basics of soldering.
W e’re very pleased that the rest of 
the world recognizes the hard work 
that everyone tries to do here, from 
students to faculty and staf,” 
Gary McGill
associate dean and director of the Fisher 
School of Accounting
SOLDERING 101
Photos by Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Keith McInnis, a 52-year-old Gainesville resident and technology consultant,  attempts to remove solder from a board inside The Repurpose Project on Thursday night. McInnis said he learned soldering from his father when he was young. Now, he wanted to use his soldering skills to help repair his son’s music equipment.
Daniel Rosenblatt, a 23-year-old Gainesville resident, examines a ca-ble inside The Repurpose Project. Rosenblatt said he attended because he had a lot of questions and was interested in do-it-yourself electronics.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
We now return to our regularly scheduled programming: 
After two weeks of nothing but Darts OR Laurels, we’re happy 
to say that the past week not only dished out the good and the bad in equal measure, but did so with gusto. For a change, we’ve actually found ourselves with too much to cover. So 
without further ado, here’s this week’s edition of … 
Darts & Laurels
As has been well covered by that trending box on the side 
of your Facebook, basketball legend and “Kazaam” star Sha-
quille O’Neal paid a visit to Gainesville Jan. 23, to publicly support the Gainesville Police Department and ofﬁ  cer Bobby White. On Jan. 15, Ofﬁ  cer White responded to a noise com-
plaint concerning a game of street ball by joining the kids in 
on the fun rather than dealing out any disciplinary measures. After footage of the game went viral, Shaq, who once squared off against Aaron Carter in a particularly riveting round of street ball, swung by our ﬁ  ne city to acknowledge Ofﬁ  cer White’s good police work.
Even in the eyes of cynical bastards like us, there’s noth-
ing to dislike about this story. Being beneﬁ  cially involved in the community ought to be the norm for policing in America 
rather than the news-generating exception. In light of ongoing 
revelations about the Chicago Police Department, including their tampering of dashboard cameras, it’s more important than ever to reward constructive law enforcement in order to truly contrast it with the bad. Ofﬁ  cer White gets a Laurel.
Kanye West’s Twitter feed has long been the stuff of leg-
end, capturing both his amusing observations on the mundane (“I make awesome decisions in bike stores!!!”) and exhibiting the height of his bourgeois mania (“I speciﬁ  cally ordered per-
sian rugs with cherub imagery!!! What do I have to do to get 
a simple persian rug with cherub imagery uuuuugh”).
With the recently announced Feb. 11 release date for 
his long-awaited seventh studio album “Waves” (formerly known as “Swish,” formerly known as “So Help Me God”) approaching, the last few weeks have seen a tremendous up-tick in activity from his account. Nearly all of it is positive and exciting — that is, until yesterday, when a regrettable Twitter beef with forthcoming UF performer Wiz Khalifa began over 
Kanye’s use of the word “Waves” for an album title, followed 
by a possible misunderstanding over a tweet with the initials “kk.”  Khalifa maintains “kk” is his preferred strain of weed, while others thought it was a subliminal message directed toward Kanye’s wife, She-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.
What followed was… unfortunate. Although now deleted, 
the Internet never forgets, and when someone of Kanye’s pro-ﬁ  le tweets something as strongly worded as “13th You own waves???? I own your child!!!!,” well, it’s kind of impossible 
to forget. And we’re not even going to get into the slut-sham-
ing on Kanye’s part and subsequent sex-negativity from both him and Khalifa’s ex, Amber Rose (hip-hop is nothing if not a soap opera).
Why, Kanye, why? We WANT to root for you; we WANT 
to be able to defend your behavior in light of your musical oeuvre. For as much as Kanye’s albums have elevated hip-hop and popular American music as a whole, his behavior unfortunately continues to undermine his own work and fuel 
a noxious culture concerned with celebrity worship, deiﬁ  ca-
tion and justifying unfortunate behavior. Sigh. An artisti-cally gifted yet irrefutably douchey Dart for Kanye West.
On a lighter note, we know all of you saw Tian Tian, a 
panda at the National Zoo in D.C., frolicking in the snow dur-ing the blizzard last weekend. A Laurel for Tian Tian for serving as a necessary reminder that there is so much beauty in the world.Technology addiction isn’t unique to millennials
A cardinal sin of our generation, or so I’m told, is our incessant need for in-stant gratiﬁ  cation — in other words, our addiction to digital technology. We spend our lives scrolling through Face-
book, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, Yik Yak, Tinder, Grindr, Bumble, Uber, Lyft, Woofer, berniesanders.com and ISIS, just to name a few places. But it seems we rarely spend enough time with those we truly care about.
I don’t believe almost anything I’ve just 
told you — and I’m fairly certain Woofer doesn’t exist — but this half-baked critique of millennials is the sort of thing I’ve heard from various baby-boomer-aged high 
school teachers, Elite Daily writers, anonymous grafﬁ  ti 
artists, etc. But I do say half-baked because there is some weight to these arguments, if only to a degree.
I’m sure most of us undergraduates are all familiar 
with this complaint from our parents: “When you’re with us, you spend too much time on your phone.” And what I’ve inferred from the annual Father’s Day and Moth-er’s Day social media posts is that everyone feels their parents are, at the end of the day, the people they love 
the most, their constant source of motivation and their 
reason and inspiration for following their dreams, right? And I’m sure — and not condescendingly this time, I promise — there is some part of us that admits we should spend a little more time talking with them, that the time period of sharing a roof with our parents has vanished and, sooner than we’d like to think, our parents one day will as well.
I don’t mean to be morbid; we all die. But I’d like to 
point out how this is one of many examples where, faced with the overwhelming knowledge of the precious and ﬁ  nite nature of existence, we make time for Facebook, a website very few people admit to enjoying.
But just as my column attempts to reach no further 
than the intellectual depth of a Banksy installation, I’ll mention I digress.
What is always lacking in this type of analysis of mil-lennials is a recognition of human complex-ity. It’s as though cultural commentators, even within our own age group, believe millennials are happy at most with a “Most Likely to Im-prove” trophy and a hot match on Tinder. The 
question that has rarely been posed is, “What 
makes a human spend hours in the digital dimension, one that isn’t real in a physical sense?”
The fact that this question has never been 
asked is the reason why so many record com-
panies are bafﬂ  ed by the recent spike in vinyl sales — af-ter all, why would millennials buy something physically that they can already steal digitally? Or why, in a poten-
tially awkward position, do they immediately reach for 
their phones? Has it ever occurred to culture critics to ask why millennials spend more time on their exes’ social media pages than they’d like to admit, or why they’re so eager to exhibit their perfect romantic relationships online?
A little bit of the reason, I imagine, is neural wiring 
— the part of the human brain that determines long-term beneﬁ  ts is farther away from our eyes than the center 
that registers immediate pleasure — so we use social me-
dia in lieu of doing work. Some of it, I assume, has to do with the social nature of primates — we may constantly interact through computers to stave off a feeling of loneli-ness. Perhaps evolution has favored a sort of narcissism that becomes enhanced through social media. But really, I should stop pretending I can describe the reasons why humans are so drawn to digital technology in 720 words or less.
The notion of being a member of a generation was im-
posed on millennials; I have very little in common indi-vidually with the person in the library sitting across from me aside from age, university afﬁ  liation and, in this case, gender. In many ways, I have just as much in common with a 90-year-old man glued to his FM radio.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
For the past few months, 
female UFC ﬁ  ghter Ronda Rousey has been all over 
the news. Her record is 
impressive: She holds an 
Olympic medal in Judo, was the ﬁ  rst female ﬁ  ghter to sign with 
UFC and is currently ranked ﬁ  rst 
in UFC women’s bantamweight. Even with her recent loss to fel-low UFC ﬁ  ghter Holly Holm, there’s no doubt Rousey’s achievements 
are noteworthy.
Sadly, as is often the case for female 
athletes, Rousey’s looks seem to garner 
almost as much attention as her ﬁ  ghting, 
if not more. With dishwater-blonde hair 
and delicate facial features, Rousey is as attractive as she is skilled, and the media have taken notice. One of the ﬁ  rst links yielded from a Google search of Rousey’s 
name is a Sports Illustrated photoshoot 
of her posing topless on the beach, all the while striking UFC power poses in a barely-there bikini. While the photoshoot 
alone is harmless, it seems a little ridicu-
lous that it’s one of the top news items associated with her name.
Rousey isn’t the ﬁ  rst. Tennis star Anna 
Kournikova is the most formidable exam-
ple of a female athlete who received more 
attention for her beauty than her abili-ties. Of course, Kournikova differs from Rousey in that her career was relatively 
short-lived and not as illustrious in com-
parison to other women in her division. Regardless, her good looks brought her signiﬁ  cant press coverage and merchan-dising opportunities. In fact, Kournikova 
only made $3.5 million in prize money 
throughout her time on the WTA tour, as compared to $10 million a year in en-dorsements for brands like Adidas, Omega 
and Berlei.
What bothers me most is there seems to 
be a speciﬁ  c type of recognition reserved 
only for conventionally attractive female athletes. There’s a subtle but distinct sub-
text to the interviews and headlines when 
a beautiful woman excels at sports. It’s something along the lines of, “So-and-so accomplished this incredible feat, AND she did it 
all while still being hot enough 
to be relevant!” It’s degrading and patronizing, and it deni-grates the signiﬁ  cance of what 
the athlete has actually done.
Even more bafﬂ  ing is when 
a female athlete is criticized for 
her appearance. Serena Wil-
liams, who holds 21 Grand Slam titles 
in singles tennis, is often the source of 
immense ridicule due to her strong phy-sique. Most of the ridicule comes in the form of nasty tweets from the public, with 
people shaming her body, hair and even 
skin tone. However, even the media some-times fails to practice sensitivity in its cov-erage of Williams. The New York Times published an article analyzing her “mus-
cular frame” and noted that most female 
athletes tend to keep “ladylike” ﬁ  gures.
Rousey, too, has been subject to nega-
tive reviews on social media about her 
muscle tone and seemingly “masculine” 
body type. To those critics, Rousey says, “Just because my body was developed for a purpose doesn’t mean it’s masculine.”
While Rousey’s response was positive 
and resilient, I hope there comes a time when athletes like her are no longer scru-tinized for their looks. All things willing, the media and society at large will prog-
ress to a point where a woman can be rec-
ognized merely for the things she did, not for how she looked while doing them.  
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.The media should stop focusing on 
the appearances of female athletesColumn
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.org
“Rousey is as 
attractive as she is 
skilled, and the media 
have taken notice.”It seems that these days, any-one who is anyone has de-cided to sit down and write 
a memoir.
Perfectly packaged, the 
neat autobiographies of today’s 
celebrities, YouTube stars and 
comedians have taken off in 
popular culture with hundreds of people gobbling up the writ-ten word of the people they ﬁ  nd interest-ing, special and shiny.
It makes sense: The memoir has been 
disdained throughout history as unsettling at best and an attention-seeking act of des-peration at worst.
Next to its other literary counterparts, 
the memoir seems like a shallow option. You could be accomplishing some grand creative feat, but instead you’re writing about your childhood, right?
However scintillating it may be, the fact 
remains that, unfortunately, there are peo-ple in the world who had a childhood pret-ty similar to yours, especially if you’re a 
middle-to-upper-class, middle-aged white 
American — that’s just life.
This column isn’t meant to hate on 
memoirs. It’s fully understood it is and al-ways has been enticing to read about the 
lives, experiences and hidden thoughts of 
another person. It’s a pseudo-diary, one the whole world can see. There is some-thing simultaneously irresistible and re-
pulsive about skimming over the pages 
of someone else’s life — bonus points if the secrets are especially juicy. Americans have been reading plenty of memoirs now-adays.
In 2009, author Ben Yagoda wrote a 
book called “Memoir: A History,” chroni-cling how and when people ﬁ  rst decided to sit down and write about themselves 
(which dates very, very far back in time; 
we’re talking 371 A.D.)
Yagoda cited the Nielsen BookScan, 
which tracks 70 percent of U.S. book sales, as recording a 400-percent increase in 
sales of memoir-based books from 2004 to 
2008. From there, the numbers have only gone up.
Yagoda’s book is a pleasant read in 
terms of how the memoir has evolved over time, but he’s not the only one to be so interested. Critics, authors and artists love to talk about 
memoirs, and they have done so 
for centuries with varying opin-ions. Should we hate them or love them? What intimate rela-
tion of human experience can be 
pulled from the pages? How can we connect to the writer?
As college students, we love reading 
about the lives of other people in an al-
most voyeuristic way. It’s a way to step 
into another life, usually a successful one that we admire or aspire to.
Speaking for myself, I eat up the co-
medic memoirs of people like Tina Fey and Mindy Kaling. When browsing book-shelves, my eye is piqued by the latest ce-lebrity insight.
Even Kim Kardashian has an autobiog-
raphy, because her life just isn’t quite pub-licized enough. Justin Bieber, Miley Cyrus and even “Duck Dynasty” star Phil Robert-son all have memoirs. (Justin was only 16 
when his book was released — a fact I am 
sure he isn’t embarrassed by at all.)
And therein lies the true issue with 
the popularity of the memoir: With semi-famous people sitting down to hash out a 
few chapters and slap their faces on the 
$25.99 hardcover title photo, the memoir becomes less of an exploration of human-ity and more of a cheap publicity stunt to 
sell the image of a celebrity.
This is not remotely true with every 
celebrity memoir — I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to say 
that Amy Poehler’s “Yes Please” is on my favorites list — but it is a sad side effect of 
the genre’s popularity.
I would like the memoirs I read or hear 
about to be those of people who have sto-
ries I haven’t heard before and contain 
experiences I can learn from — memoirs 
like “The Argonauts” by Maggie Nelson or “Hold Still” by Sally Mann.
The memoir, ﬂ  awed or not, should be 
a creative process in its own right, not a 
careless step on the way to international 
stardom.
Sally Greider is an English and public 
relations junior. Her column usually ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Memoirs: something to say or sell?Column
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
Music found Sanchez at a young 
age, and he’s since dedicated his life 
to what started as a hobby.
Manuel Sanchez, Hugo’s older 
brother by 11 years, said his family always admired Hugo’s drive, disci-pline and undeniable talent.
“It’s impressive when I think 
about my brother,” Manuel said. “He had a passion, and he stuck to it. It’s almost like he had no choice — the music was in him and he 
couldn’t get away from it. I’m so 
proud of him.”
But no amount of music could 
drown out the internal problems his family faced, eventually leading San-
chez to leave home.
“I was fortunate to have enough 
friends and family up and down the 
state that I was able to crash with,” 
he said. “People who were willing 
to feed and clothe me in between recording records and playing very low-paying gigs with any band that would have me.”
“All the while I was listening re-
ligiously to anything I could get my hands on, including a multitude of rap records that would influence me 
for years to come,” he said.
•   •   •
In 2010, Sanchez researched plac-
es to start over.
He found Gainesville, where the 
cost of living was lower and the mu-
sic scene was appealing.
He pitched the idea to his friends, 
who said it didn’t take much con-
vincing before they agreed to join 
him.
Sanchez met Alex Cordova, Ross 
Papitto and David Bell when they were teenagers growing up in South 
Florida.
The same year Sanchez and his 
friends migrated to Gainesville, 
they created their rock ’n’ roll band, 
Young Hookers.
Now, all the band’s members are 
involved in his transition to hip-hop.
Papitto, 26, plays guitar in Young 
Hookers. Now he also stands along-side Sanchez and hypes up the 
crowd.  
“I’m like the backup dancer of 
rapping,” Papitto said. “Hype man is 
an unofficial title.”
Cordova, 27, met Sanchez when 
they were both 14. Cordova said he 
produced music as a hobby for a few years, and now he’s responsible for 
the musical aspects of Sanchez’s hip-
hop tracks.
“I’ve always made beats as a cre-
ative outlet,” he said. “I was looking 
for someone who would be a good 
rapper to work with. I couldn’t have predicted it would be Hugo.”
Cordova said maintaining the 
group’s friendship all these years has 
been crucial to their success.
“The four of us as a collective, 
whether we’re playing music or not, 
wouldn’t be doing as well without 
each other,” he said.
•   •   •Sanchez and his friends lived and 
learned together for years.
One of their more recent lessons: 
Nothing lasts forever.
For about two years they lived 
in the same house, recorded music, 
played gigs and worked on personal 
projects.
In 2013, Sanchez’s producer, Cor-
dova, moved to Austin, Texas, with 
his girlfriend. From there, the friends who held each other together began 
to live apart.
In the same year, Sanchez moved 
to Marion County with his fiance, 
Raiza Perdomo, who worked as a 
teacher there.
Sanchez said he enjoys the 
slow-paced environment in Marion, 
where he writes lyrics, watches “The Rachel Maddow Show” and plays 
“Fallout 4.”
“It’s kind of like my bat cave,” he 
said.
When Sanchez returns to 
Gainesville, he lets loose.
His other two bandmates remain 
in Gainesville.
“It proved to be a crucial time for 
us,” Sanchez said. “We had to find a way to collaborate and create while 
being spread apart.”
His solution: hip-hop.“I learned that the skills I had 
acquired as the front-man in a rock band were so valuable in hip-hop,” he said.
Sanchez said his lyrics are a bal-
ance of humor and social messages.
“I consider myself a member of 
the 9/11 generation: a civic-minded man who was shaped by the policy and tension of the era,” he said.
And that’s what his music is all 
about.
•   •   •
At Thursday’s show, Sanchez 
buzzed with apprehension.
He paced in a back room at High 
Dive and struggled to finish a full sentence.
In front of the stage, blue lights il-
luminated a crowd of more than 150 
people.
Bass soon shook the wood-pan-
eled walls as Sanchez — clad in blue 
jeans, a floral print button-down and his signature black-framed glasses — 
debuted his original hip-hop.
Papitto reunited with his old 
friend, bouncing by Sanchez’s side 
and singing backup vocals.
His niece, nephew, siblings and 
friends stood proudly in the crowd, watching Sanchez start a new chap-ter of his life.
“He’s just super, super smart,” 
his brother Manuel said.
“He inspired me to be a better 
human, because he was honestly so caring all his life,” he said.
After the show, a sweaty Sanchez 
stood among the crowd.
While sipping beer from a clear 
plastic cup and handing out a col-lection of his new music, Sanchez 
admired his first crowd as a rapper.
“This is my first year on the 
scene, but I want to get firing on all 
cylinders,” he said.
@JbmolllyRAP,  from pg 1He started a band called Young Hookers with his friends
Despite experiencing homelessness at the age of 20, Sanchez persisted in his music career. “I was 
fortunate to have enough friends and family up and down the state that I was able to crash with, ” Sanchez said. “People who were willing to feed and clothe me in between recording records and playing very low-paying gigs with any band that would have me. ” 
LEFT:
Hugo Sanchez rehearses lines under his breath backstage before his performance at the High Dive on Thursday. Sanchez said he didn’t feel nervous before the performance, just anxious to go out.
BELOW:
Manuel Sanchez, Hugo Sanchez’s 39-year-old brother, records Hugo’s performance from the crowd on his cellphone.FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
ABOVE:
In this long exposure shot, Ross Papitto, left, Sanchez’s childhood 
friend and hype man, performs next to Sanchez at High Dive. “I’m like the backup dancer of rapping, ” Papitto said. “Hype man is an unofficial title. ”
LEFT:
Underneath the stage lights, Sanchez delivers lightning-fast rhymes to the crowd: “Everybody want to be fresh like Will, but bitch, I’m Uncle Phil. ”
Photos by Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-16-20-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYI’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a 
replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life. A Gainesville start-up company is looking for a co-founder. This is a commit-ment. There are great benefits if the compa-ny succeeds. No one can predict what those might be. Send contact info and resume to info@overlandats.com.    1-29-16-6-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
WAIT STAFF NEEDED
Experienced only. Leonardo's Millhopper - 
4131 NW 16th Blvd, Gville.   2-2-16-5-14
**DRIVER TRAINEES**
**NEEDED NOW**850-983-1400       1-29-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    1-29-1-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Truck DriversObtain Class A CDL in 3 weeksCompany Sponsored TrainingAlso Hiring Recent Truck School GraduatesExperienced DriversMust be 21 or OlderCall: (866) 757-8315               1-29-1-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers- Avg. $55k/yr$2k Sign-On BonusFamily Company w/ Great MilesLove your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req- (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com                 1-29-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.New Year, New Career - AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and oth-ers- Get hands on training for FAA certifica-tion. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838   1-29-1-15
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Certification in weeks, not years. Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -start here with 12 week FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    1-29-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgViagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00
Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.
Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.
Call Now  1-800-224-0305    1-29-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 Pets
Headline
Story description Pg#
Florida track & field will 
compete in the Razorback Invitational starting today.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Doubles competition is sometimes over-
looked in collegiate tennis.
The matches are shorter, worth less points 
and may be viewed as a warm up to the main 
event of singles play.
However, for Florida men’s tennis coach 
Bryan Shelton, playing well in the doubles 
portion of a match is crucial in defeating an 
opponent.
“Doubles is like a pressure cooker because 
it’s a six game set, so it’s really fast paced,” Shelton said.
“If you don’t get off to a good start, it’s easy 
to be out of (a match) quickly.”
Through the first four matches of the year, 
the No. 20 Gators have gone 8-1 in doubles 
play, winning the doubles point all four times.Experience has been key for the Gators’ 
early success. Florida’s top two doubles tan-
dems are the No. 3-ranked duo of seniors Di-
ego Hidalgo and Gordon Watson and the 40th-
ranked pair of juniors Elliott Orkin and Maxx Lipman.
Both duos played together last year, and 
the experience each has gained playing with his partner shows in their records this season. Lipman and Orkin are 3-0 together, while Hi-dalgo and Watson are 2-0, including a victory last Sunday against Texas Tech’s Hugo Dojas and Felipe Soares, the No. 2-ranked tandem in the country.
“Those guys kind of understand the bal-
ance of how to come out with good energy but not be too hyped where they can’t execute,” Shelton said. “And I think they understand each other out there. The chemistry is really good.”
The Gators third pair in the lineup has typi-
cally been sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco and redshirt sophomore Joshua Wardell, who are 1-0 together this season.
However, Shelton has mixed and matched 
with different combinations for UF’s third duo.
Sophomore Jordan Belga and freshman 
McClain Kessler won together against Stet-son in the only doubles match either player 
has appeared in this season. Freshman Al-
fredo Perez has also appeared in one doubles match, winning against Stetson with Wardell as his partner.
Shelton said he has seen great improve-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida softball players named to preseason All-SEC team
UF seniors Kirsti Merritt, Aubree Munro and Kelsey Stewart were voted to 
the preseason All-SEC team on Thursday by the conference's head coaches. Florida is tied with Auburn for the most selections in the SEC.WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
With 4.2 seconds to play and 
Florida trailing by two at Arkan-
sas, the Gators inbounded the ball. 
It went to junior guard Sim-
one Westbrook, a transfer player who’s known more for her defense and potency from beyond the arc.
But instead of trying for a long-
range game-winner, Westbrook drove into the lane for a jumper 
and sent the game to overtime.
Florida outlasted the Razor-
backs in the extra period, winning 
71-66 on Thursday night.
Florida struck first in overtime 
after an Eleanna Christinaki layup. 
That basket wasn’t decisive, 
but her next one was.
After four lead changes over 
the five-minute period, Florida had final say when Christinaki laid in another layup to put UF up 67-66. She led the  Gators with 16 points.
Following her final points, the 
Gators (17-4, 5-3 Southeastern Conference) were able to hold 
on for the remaining 17 seconds, 
besting the Razorbacks (9-12, 4-4 SEC) on Thursday night in Fay-etteville. 
“To win an overtime game 
on someone else’s home floor is very hard to do, and I’m just re-ally proud that we executed with such precision in such critical mo-ments,” Florida coach Amanda 
Butler said after the game.
While the game’s ending was exciting, the rest of it was not.
 And it could’ve gotten out of 
hand early for Florida if not for the 
unlikely hot hand of post player 
Carla Batchelor. 
Usually used in relief of starter Ronni Williams, Batchelor was 
forced into the game early when Williams picked up her second foul less than three minutes into 
the first half.
While she came in shooting 29.2 percent from the three-point 
line, Batchelor went 3-for-3 from behind the arc in the first half. 
“She played like a senior on the 
road,” Butler said.
“When she got good looks, she 
knocked them down… it was huge minutes for us.”
The rest of the team was abys-
mal in the first half, shooting 7-of-23 with 10 turnovers.
“In the first half we were disap-
pointed," Butler said. 
"We were disappointed with 
the way that we played."
Luckily for Florida, Arkansas 
also struggled. 
While the Razorbacks shot a 
slightly better 11-of-29, they com-mitted 13 turnovers.    The teams’ combined dif-ficulties resulted in a festival of 
mediocrity in the first half, an 
indication as to how the rest of the game would play out.
The Gators have been notori-
ous for their third quarter strug-
gles this season, but on Thursday 
night, they finished the quarter tied at 44-44. 
Despite their shaky third quar-
ter play this season, the Gators are also notorious for turning it on in the fourth. 
However, that didn’t happen Close Call: Gators edge past Razorbacks in overtime
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Carla Batchelor looks to pass during UF's  71-61 loss to Georgia on Jan. 14 in the 
O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Bryan Shelton watches his team compete during UF's win over Troy.
Florida working on improving doubles chemistry
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15
UF is 8-1 in doubles play this year
“Doubles is like a pressure cooker 
because it’s a six game set, so it’s really 
fast paced. If you don’t get off to a good 
start, it’s easy to be out of (a match) 
quickly.”
Bryan Shelton
UF coach14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The Florida gymnastics team’s 
regular-season slate is set to contin-
ue tonight at the O’Connell Center as the Gators take on No. 5 Alabama at 6:45 p.m.   
“They always bring their ‘A’ 
game to the table,” coach Jenny Rowland said of Alabama. 
“I know this weekend it’s not go-
ing to be any different.” 
Tonight’s dual meet is Florida’s 
third consecutive matchup against a team that advanced to the 2015 NCAA Championships and its sec-
ond against a 2015 Super Six com-
petitor.
Bringing a perfect 3-0 record into 
the meet, Florida takes to the gym a week removed from a convinc-ing 197.075-195.900 Southeastern Conference victory over then-No. 8 Auburn.
With three of the nation’s top 
six all-around competitors in senior Bridget Sloan, sophomore Kennedy Baker and freshman Alicia Boren, 
the Gators look formidable as ever.
Winning their first three meets 
for the fifth time since 2003, UF 
complements their all-around trio with  solid specialists, spearheaded by sophomore and reigning SEC Specialist of the Week Alex McMur-try.
Opening the season, three differ-
ent Gators have clinched three con-secutive titles across four different events. 
Sloan has swept both the uneven 
bars and the all-around at each of the campaign’s first three contests, with McMurtry and Baker taking the vault and floor, respectively.
However, in spite of its early-
season struggles, Alabama presents a daunting obstacle to overcome. 
Sandwiching a two-meet win 
streak with slim losses to then-No. 6 UCLA and then-No. 10 Arkansas, the Crimson Tide (2-2, 2-1 SEC) still 
boast a talented roster.
Alabama returns five All-Ameri-
cans from its 2015 SEC Champion-ship-winning squad, highlighted by senior and 2015 NCAA all-around 
10th-place finisher Lauren Beers. 
Furthermore, the two-time de-
fending conference champions lead the all-time series by a commanding 33 victories, holding a 71-38-2 ad-vantage over the Gators while bring-ing the nation’s second-ranked floor unit to the O’Dome mat.
The Gators recognize the value of 
getting in a solid string of practices leading up to such an important meet. 
Much like they have in weeks 
prior, landings have drawn the most focus on the practice-gym mat. 
“We’re going to be working hard 
this week just to polish up some 
little things here and there, work on 
landings. We were hopping a little bit too much around on our landings this weekend, but hopefully (we’ll) just settle down a little bit, relax, have a little fun,” Rowland said.
“I know the Gators love to com-
pete in the O’Dome, as do I, so I know they’ll be ready to bring it on.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org Gymnastics faces No. 5 ‘Bama at home
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry performs on bars during Florida’s win over UCLA on Jan. 15 in the O’Connell Center.
Dorian 
Finney-Smith
UF forward
14.4 points  per game
8.3 rebounds 
per gameDevin
Williams
WVU forward
13.1 points  per game
8.2 rebounds 
per game
TOP MATCHUP BETWEEN UF AND WVUFlorida is 3-0 this season  BASKETBALL
By The Associated Press
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — This 
weekend’s Big 12/SEC Challenge 
offers a midseason opportunity for both leagues: The Southeastern Con-ference has a chance to improve its 
national perception, while the Big 12 
seeks to solidify its status as the na-tion’s top basketball conference.
Saturday’s schedule includes 
Vanderbilt at Texas, No. 9 West Vir-ginia at Florida, No. 14 Iowa State at No. 5 Texas A&M, Ole Miss at Kan-sas State, Tennessee at TCU, Texas Tech at Arkansas, No. 1 Oklahoma 
at LSU, Georgia at No. 17 Baylor, No. 
20 Kentucky at No. 4 Kansas and Oklahoma State at Auburn.
The SEC enters the weekend with 
much to prove. Although Kentucky added the nation’s top recruiting class and LSU has the likely No. 1 overall draft pick in freshman Ben Simmons, the SEC could have a 
tough time matching last season’s 
total of five NCAA Tournament bids. SEC teams have a combined 13-29 record against other Power 5 schools this season (4-5 against the Big 12, 8-11 against the Atlantic Coast Con-ference, 0-7 against the Big Ten and 1-6 against the Pac-12).
The SEC’s only Top 25 teams are 
Texas A&M and Kentucky, which was ranked No. 1 early in the season. Only four of the SEC’s 14 members are in the top 50 of the RPI: Texas A&M (13th), Kentucky (18th), South Carolina (26th) and Florida (28th).
“There’s been a group of disap-
pointing teams that have made a narrative of, ‘Hey, the SEC is down,” CBS Sports analyst Doug Gottlieb said.
Saturday’s schedule creates ma-
jor opportunities for SEC programs such as Florida, LSU and Vanderbilt to improve their NCAA Tournament credentials. Gottlieb called Florida a “pleasant surprise” and said Sim-mons’ presence makes LSU a dan-gerous postseason team if it gets an NCAA bid.
Florida coach Mike White ac-
knowledges he pays close attention to the RPI and other facts and figures that can determine where his team stands.
“I’m obsessed with all those 
numbers,” White said. “I’m not go-ing to lie.”
This weekend also means plenty 
for the Big 12. Oklahoma and Kan-sas are bidding for No. 1 seeds in the NCAA Tournament. The entire league wants to show it’s as good as the RPI suggests.
“Let’s say they mop up the SEC,’ 
Gottlieb said. “I think the narrative will be that they’re far and away the best (conference). Whether it’s real-
ity or not doesn’t really matter. The 
narrative will be in a year in which we’ve had great parity, they’re the best.”SEC seeking respect 
ahead of Big 12 matchup
COMPARING FLORIDA AND WEST VIRGINIA 
SCORING OFFENSE
UF’s 73.8 points per game vs. WVU’s 81.6 points per game 
SCORING DEFENSE
UF’s 64.7 points per game vs. WVU’s 63.5 points per game 
FIELD-GOAL PERCENTAGE
UF’s 42.2 percent vs. WVU’s 46.0 percent 
3-POINT FIELD-GOAL PERCENTAGE
UF’s 31.8 percent vs. WVU’s 30.7 percent 
ASSISTS PER GAME
UF’s 13.2 vs. WVU’s 15.5 
TURNOVERS PER GAME
UF’s 11.6 vs. WVU’s 14.5 
STEALS PER GAME
UF’s 6.9 vs. WVU’s 10.8Gymnastics 
Welcomes No. 5 Alabamaeither, and the score remained 
tied at the end of regulation.
In all, the lead changed 16 
times, a statistic indicative of how close the game was and how poor-ly the two teams played.  For the Gators, however, get-
ting another SEC win was impor-tant. 
With their next three games be-
ing against opponents ranked in the top 12, a win over Arkansas 
could potentially serve as motiva-
tion moving forward.
The first of those three games will be against the No. 12 Ken-
tucky Wildcats on Sunday at 1 
p.m. in the O’Connell Center. 
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgment with his team’s play from the start of the season to now, but that won’t stop the team from continuing to grind.
“One of the things I wanted to do after our doubleheader 
here at home was to really work on our doubles play and try to get that back to where it was at the end of the fall,” Shelton 
said.
“And I (feel) like we’ve made some great strides in that. 
… I’m pleased with the progress that we’ve made in a short 
amount of time to get that back to where (we) need to be and 
we’ve just got to keep working at it.”
Shelton and the Gators only have one more day before they 
hit the road again. 
The Gators will travel to Los Angeles this weekend to take 
on the No. 8 Southern California on Saturday at 1 p.m. fol-
lowed by a bout with the No. 12 UCLA Bruins on Sunday at 4 p.m. 
@dylandrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Amanda Butler claps during UF's 53-45 win over LSU 
on Jan. 17 in the O'Connell Center.
TENNIS,  from pg 13No. 20 UF heads on the road to face No. 8 USC on Saturday
Florida's next three games are against teams ranked in the top 12
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Eleanna Christinaki makes a layup during UF's 53-45 win over LSU on Jan. 17 in the O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida's Maxx Lipman returns a ball during UF's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.“One of the things I wanted to do after our 
doubleheader here at home was to really work on our 
doubles play and try to get that back to where it was at 
the end of the fall.”
Bryan Shelton
UF  men's tennis coach
W-HOOPS,  from pg 1316   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Heading into their final regular-
season meet Saturday in Knoxville, 
Florida’s swimming and diving 
teams are looking to extend their 
winning streak over Tennessee for the eighth-straight year. 
The Gators will race in a 25-yard 
course for the first time since the Ohio State Invitational on Nov. 22. 
“We haven’t seen (it) in a 
while,” coach Gregg Troy said. “So that’s going to help us a little bit to 
evaluate going into the conference 
meet.” 
The Vols, whose men’s and 
women’s teams are both currently 
ranked No. 12, will have extra mo-
tivation heading into Saturday’s Se-nior Day meet.
Tennessee’s seniors will focus 
on earning a victory at home one 
more time after the men and wom-
en fell to Southeastern Conference rival Georgia in Athens last Satur-day. 
When the Gators and Volun-
teers faced each other last January, both the UF men’s and women’s teams dominated Tennessee, de-feating the Volunteers 198.5-99 and 
187-105, respectively. 
While the Gators are looking to 
extend their winning streak over 
their SEC rival, Troy is focused on 
making his teams better before the 
SEC Championships begin on Feb. 16.
“Sometimes in the dual-meet 
season, it’s not a matter of whether 
you win or lose,” Troy said. “You 
can win a competition and lose a score.
“This week, whether (we) win 
or lose, we’ve got some spots where we’re going to use some 
people in some different events to 
try to decide what we’re going to do relative to the conference meet.” 
The No. 3-ranked UF men’s 
team had two streaks snapped last 
weekend at home against Auburn. Prior to Saturday’s 154.5-145.5 loss 
to the then-No. 7 ranked Tigers, the UF men’s team was riding a three-meet winning streak and had won 
their previous four meets against 
the Tigers dating back to 2011.
As the men’s team prepares to 
go after its fourth-straight SEC title, Saturday will present an opportuni-
ty for several swimmers to improve their times to qualify for the NCAA 
Championships in March. 
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel, who 
has already made the cut in four different events, will look to im-prove in the 200-yard freestyle this Saturday to make his fifth guaran-
teed event. 
He and several other teammates 
will try to either guarantee them-
selves a spot in Atlanta for the 
NCAA Championships in March or 
at least post times fast enough to place themselves above the NCAA cut line. 
Meanwhile, the No. 15 UF 
women’s team will be sailing into Knoxville Saturday on a four-meet winning streak. 
Florida’s top swimmer, senior 
Natalie Hinds, who was named SEC Swimmer of the Week on Tuesday, captured four total victo-ries this past Saturday in the team’s 
192-108 victory over the then-No. 
10 ranked Tigers. 
The Midland, Texas, native’s 
victory in the 50-meter freestyle was enough to earn her a second 
entry into the U.S. Olympic Trials 
later this year.
Senior Jessica Thielmann and 
redshirt junior Georgia Hohmann 
will look to improve their times to 
guarantee themselves a spot in the NCAA championship meet begin-ning March 16. 
Currently, Hinds is the only 
swimmer on the women’s side with a guaranteed spot after she recorded a time of 47.75 in the 100-yard freestyle. 
As the Gators’ regular season 
comes to an end this Saturday, Troy feels positive about the over-all focus of both of his teams as they get closer to the start of cham-
pionship season.
“I think our sense of purpose is 
going to be a little better the rest of 
the way,” Troy said.
“We know what we’ve faced 
and just the mere fact that we’re going back to a short-course facil-ity, it’s a little bit more enthusiastic and a little bit more tempo.”
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.orgGators looking to extend winning streak against Vols
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Gregg Troy encourages his swimmers during UF’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23, 2016, 
in the O’Connell Center.
UF hasn’t lost to UT in eight years