STAFF REPORT
For president, Florida voters chose Hillary 
Clinton for the Democratic nominee and Don-
ald Trump for the Republican.  
And as UF students gathered to watch the 
primaries, Gainesville locals chanted mayoral 
candidate Lauren Poe’s name as he gave an 
acceptance speech Tuesday night.
At about 9 p.m., Poe beat Gainesville May-
or Ed Braddy for the mayoral seat. Adrian Hayes-Santos defeated Jim Konish for the City of Gainesville District 4 Commission seat.
Poe, surrounded by about 60 supporters, 
said he expected the race to be closer.
“I didn’t run against Ed Braddy, I ran for 
Gainesville,” the 45-year-old said.
      
Benjamin Revard, a UF doctoral materi-
als science and engineering student, said he didn’t vote in the last presidential election.On Tuesday, he cast his ballot at the Reitz 
Union.
“I felt like my vote didn’t matter, so I just 
didn’t vote,” the 26-year-old said.
Rutha Kariuki, 29, teaches her students at 
Eastside High School the importance of vot-ing.
“People have fought and died for you to be 
able to vote,” she said.
      
Supporters drank around a TV at Poe’s 
watch party at First Magnitude Brewing Com-pany, later cheering when he arrived at about We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 119 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
Florida baseball shuts out FSU
The Gators won 6-0, pg. 13
Drag-racing tour to visit GNV for 47th 
annual competition
The competition begins  Thursday, pg. 3
Wine, food and creative ideas
Community members share innovative ideas, pg. 5Gainesville waits for votesto roll in
Check out the photo story from Super 
Tuesday, pgs. 8-9
THE VOTES ARE INHEALTH
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jacob Dolins wants all people to be able 
to donate blood, regardless of sexuality.
The 19-year-old UF biology and nutri-
tional sciences freshman is organizing Pride 
Awareness Month’s ﬁ  rst Gay Blood Drive on 
Thursday. UF students can donate on behalf 
of gay and bisexual men from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in front of Century Tower.
The Food and Drug Administration bans 
men who have had sexual relations with oth-er men in the past year from donating, said Gary Kirkland, the media relations coordina-tor for LifeSouth Community Blood Centers. The FDA made an indeﬁ  nite deferral policy 
for their donations in 1983 to prevent HIV 
from being transferred.
The group expects to collect about 100 
donations, Dolins said. After the blood is col-lected, Pride Student Union will double the number donated to show how much they could have collected if gay and bisexual men could donate.
He said the FDA should abolish the policy.
“Any individual who knows their disease 
status is negative up to the time they donate 
should be allowed to donate regardless of their sexual preference,” Dolins said. “AIDS is a disease that anyone can get, so sexuality shouldn’t matter.”
Melanie Espaillat, a UF exploratory fresh-
man, said she is participating in the Gay Blood Drive because she believes it will edu-
cate students about the ban.
“I think this event will help UF become 
more of an inclusive environment,” the 
18-year-old said.Pride Student 
Union to host ﬁ  rst gay blood drive
THE MONEY IS FOR A 
CANCER WALK CALLED 
LIGHT THE NIGHT.
Lauren Rowland
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the ﬁ  rst time, UF students 
will race recycled canoes at Bro-
ward Pool to raise money for a 
cancer walk.Registration for Phi Sigma Rho’s 
ﬁ  rst Phi Rho Your Boat event is 
now open. For the event April 10, teams will build boats from recy-cled plastics, such as bottles and bags. They hope to raise about 
$200 for Light the Night, a leuke-
mia and lymphoma fundraising event to support cancer research.
Teams of up to 10 students will 
collect the materials from across Gainesville, said Morgan Leger, 
one of the sorority’s co-philanthro-
py chairs. The sorority decided to hold the event after other chapters did.
The $50 registration fee pro-
vides each team with two plastic bags, two rolls of tape and either a foam noodle or a kick board, she said.
Lifeguards will oversee the race at Broward Pool, the UF environ-
mental engineering sophomore 
said.
Boats can be as long as each 
team wants, but they must be at least one foot tall, the 19-year-old 
said. Teams will use their hands as 
paddles.
The winners will receive $100 
for the charity of their choice, 
Leger said. They’re also asking for donations for Light the Night.
“Right now, we ask friends and 
family to donate,” she said.
Mary Regan, a co-philanthropy 
chair, said she’s looking forward to 
seeing what the boats look like.
“I’m most excited to see what 
kinds of designs people come up with and their creativity,” the 21-year-old UF agricultural and 
biological engineering senior said.UF students to race plastic boats for cancer charity eventGainesville voices are heard
SEE ELECTIONS,  PAGE 4
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Lauren Poe speaks to supporters 
at First Magnitude Brewing Com-pany after his win for Gainesville mayor on Tuesday night. He won with 57.07 percent of the vote.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
iSTEAM Seminar Series pres-
ents demo of brain-con-
trolled drone
Doctoral candidates Marvin 
Andujar and Chris Crawford at UF’s Brain-Computer Interface Group will speak on neural meth-ods of brain-robot interaction at the Marston Science Library today at 3 p.m. in Room L136 (first floor of Marston). They will conduct an indoor flight demon-stration of their brain-controlled drone and discuss their research in measuring and enhancing the 
user’s physiological engagement 
levels with wearable electroen-cephalographic technologies. The iSTEAM Speakers Series presents topics of interest to students ma-joring in science, technology, en-gineering, arts and/or math.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 119
HIGH  84° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
LOCAL
By Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
Racers from around the world will soon 
enter a flurry of smoke and fumes at the 
Amalie Motor Oil National Hot Rod Associa-tion Gatornationals.
The 47th annual drag-racing competition 
begins Thursday at 8:30 a.m. and ends Sun-day at 3:45 p.m.
Gainesville Raceway, situated at 11211 N. 
County Road 225, will host the races.
Sara Slaughter, an NHRA media relations 
manager, said the tour includes drag racing classes Funny Car, Pro Stock Drag Racing and Pro Stock Motorcycle.
A full list of times and categories can be 
found on the NHRA website.
The event is special, Slaughter said, be-
cause even general admission tickets func-tion as pit passes.
“You can go down and meet the drivers, 
get their autographs, take pictures and go 
down and see them work on their cars and 
engines in between each run they make,” Slaughter said.
Adult general admission is $22 Thursday, 
$42 Friday and $64 both Saturday and Sun-
day, according to the website. 
Anthony Vestal, the NHRA director of me-
dia, said the event is one of 24 stops in the 
2016 NHRA Mello Yello Drag Racing Series.
Gatornationals is also the series’ first 
event on the East Coast, Vestal said.
“Definitely one of our biggest events of 
the season and one of the most tradition-rich races,” he said.
Starting and rebuilding of dragster
• Featuring Tim McMillen’s Oil XtermiGator, Noon on Wednesday at Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza, 1250 W. University Ave. 
Gainesville Raceway
• Races Thursday to Sunday, 11211 N. County Road 225
Fun Fact
• Don “Big Daddy” Garlits was the first driver in NHRA Drag Racing history to pass 270 mph at Gatornationals in 1986Drag-racing tour to visit GNV for 47th annual competition
LEFT:
John Force races down the quarter-mile-long track at the Gainesville Race-way in Gainesville during the 2015 Ga-tornationals on March 14, 2015.
BELOW:
T op Fuel series drag racer J.R. T odd drives down the quarter-mile-long track at the Gainesville Raceway dur-ing a qualifying round at the 2015 Ga-tornationals on March 14, 2015.
Photos by Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
8 p.m.
About 15 minutes later, he 
smiled as he took photos with vol-
unteers and interns, thanking them for their help.
“The work starts tomorrow,” 
Poe said.
•   •   •
Braddy’s supporters spent the 
day outside polling locations.
Tuesday night, he and about 35 
supporters met at The Warehouse Restaurant and Lounge after the 
polls closed.  
Though Braddy said he is dis-
appointed he lost, he still thanked 
voters.
“I think the record shows that 
Gainesville is a better place than it was three years ago,” he said.
****“I’m excited to be the next city 
commissioner,” Hayes-Santos said, waiting for the final results.
Before entering The Bank Bar & 
Lounge for his watch party, Hayes-Santos said he spent the day visit-ing precincts.
In the 30 minutes after polls 
closed, the room hummed with conversations and clinking glasses as Hayes-Santos greeted support-ers.
But first, a day of rest.
His victory resulted from his 
issue-driven campaign, but Tues-
day’s high voter turnout was a sur-prise, Hayes-Santos said.
“It’s exciting to see so many 
people getting involved in democ-racy,” he said.
•   •   •
Jim Konish held his watch party 
with Braddy.
The District 4 Commission can-
didate said he placed signs near polling stations in Gainesville on 
Tuesday morning.
Konish said he also met his 
legal team to discuss his lawsuit 
against Hayes-Santos’ residency in District 4.
“I’m going to lose the vote, but 
there will be a court case, so we will see what the judge decides,” he said.
•   •   •
Gators for Hillary and campaign 
volunteers ate dinner in the glow of large TVs at Gator’s Dockside.
When Clinton was announced 
the winner, attendees chanted her 
name.
Caroline Stonecipher, the Gators 
for Hillary president, said Hillary 
has championed women’s rights.
“She was a warrior when it 
wasn’t acceptable,” the 22-year-old UF psychology senior said.
Supporters of Bernie Sanders 
gathered at the High Dive.
Noorul “Fractal” Hassan, a 
supporter of Sanders and Marxist communism, said some of Sanders echoes some of her beliefs, even though he isn’t a communist.
“He’s not left enough for me,” 
the 18-year-old UF mathematics freshman said.ELECTIONS,  from pg 1Trump, Clinton, Poe 
and Hayes-Santos won
CAMPUS
Keiran Sheridan
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF graduate school has moved up in its rank-
ing for the first time in five years.
UF’s College of Pharmacy moved from No. 14 to 
No. 9 in U.S. News and World Report’s 2017 edition 
of the Best Graduate Schools ranking. UF’s Hough Graduate School of Business kept its ranking of 37.
Julie Johnson, the dean of the College of Phar-
macy, said the college has worked to improve its 
program.
“There has been a complete overhaul in curricu-
lum for our first-year students,” she said. “The new 
curriculum focuses on using active learning tech-niques and hands-on experiences.”
Johnson said she thinks the ranking will attract 
more students.
“Students have a lot of options when it comes to 
pharmacy schools, but now we are in a league of our 
own when it comes to the state of Florida,” Johnson 
said. “Not all colleges are equal, and students need to make choices based on more than what’s close to home.”
Jenna Forry, a UF pre-pharmacy accelerated pro-
gram sophomore, will attend the College of Pharma-cy next Fall. She said the school’s rank influenced her to accept her admission offer.
“UF’s rank is so much higher than the other school I applied to, so there really wasn’t much of a choice,” the 20-year-old said. “I want to go to the 
school that has a better reputation and will enable 
me to succeed.”
Selcuk Erenguc, the senior associate dean of 
Hough Graduate Programs, said he’s slightly disap-pointed their ranking in business schools did not 
improve.
“When you look at factors such as selectivity, 
graduates employed three months after graduation 
and graduates employed at graduation, we place 
within the top ten,” he said.
Sarah Winter, a student in UF’s combined master 
of international business program, said the ranking 
will help her when she graduates.
“Not only is it a talking point when interviewing 
for companies, but it is also great to know that I am receiving the best education I can,” the 21-year-old said.
How UF ranked:
• Engineering - 43
• Biological/Agricultural Engineering - 3
• Education - 30
• Clinical Psychology - 31
• Occupational Therapy - 17College of Pharmacy moves up in rank IT’S FOR SEMI-FINALS.
Brenna McKenna
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s equestrian team will 
walk and jog their horses during 
a competition in Tennessee this weekend.
Nine UF students will attend 
the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association’s 2016 Western Semi Finals in Murfreesboro, Tennes-see, this weekend. The team will be led by coach Jenny Baker, who came to UF this year.
The team qualified Sunday at 
the regional competition at the University of Central Florida, 
Baker said. The team beat the 
second-ranking college by more than 100 points.
“It’s cool to watch everyone 
improve as much as they did and move on to semi-finals,” Baker said.
Team members will take a 
bus to the competition, she said. 
Those competing have to find 
family or companies to sponsor them.
The team uses the coach’s 
roughly 20 horses at UF, Baker said, but each member will be as-signed a horse at the competition.
“It’s completely luck of the 
draw. Whether you get an easy 
draw or a hard draw, it’s very dif-
ferent,” said Baker.
The team’s captain, Casey 
Presler, 23, said she’s looking forward to competing in her last year.  
“It’s sad, but I’m glad that as 
a team as well as an individual I was able to make it this far and to 
be able to travel to Tennessee,” 
the UF animal science senior said.Equestrian team goes to Ten-neigh-see
Courtesy to the Alligator
Melissa T ench, a 20-year-old UF animal sciences and business man-
agement junior, competes in a western reining competition. T ench is a co-captain of the UF equestrian team, which will be traveling to T ennessee for the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association’s 2016 Western Semi Finals competition this weekend.MAYOR
Lauren Poe
16,245 votes
57.07 percent
Ed Braddy
11,226 votes
39.44 percent
Donald Shepherd Sr.
993 votes
3.49 percentCity of Gainesville 
Election Results
CITY COMMISSION
DISTRICT 4
Adrian Hayes-Santos
4,424 votes
81.09 percent
Jim Konish
1,032 votes
18.91 percent
Alachua County 
Presidential Results
REPUBLICAN
Donald J. Trump
9,241 votes
38.18 percent
Marco Rubio
6,979 votes
28.84 percent
Ted Cruz
5,213 votes
21.54 percent
Bernie Sanders
17,590 votes
48.82 percentDEMOCRAT
Hillary Clinton
17,733 votes
49.22 percentWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Brooke Steinberg
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new volunteer program 
hopes to mobilize Gainesville resi-
dents against a pesky plant. 
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department recently announced a series of events scheduled for the first Saturday of every month.
From 9 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., vol-
unteers will target a plant called Coral ardisia, an invasive spe-cies that quickly reproduces and spreads, Grace Howell, a habitat naturalist for the department, said. 
“It changes the ecosystem by 
creating a dense monoculture of an invasive species and doesn’t allow the native plants to grow there, which is important for wild-
life and for the ecosystem health,” 
Howell said.
The new initiative stemmed 
from the Gainesville Greenway Challenge to protect natural areas, 
and it gathers volunteers who re-
move invasive species from parks throughout the city, she said. The challenge first prioritized 
the removal of Coral ardisia last year, Howell said. 
Volunteers previously targeted 
air potatoes, another fast-growing plant.
In 2013, an air potato leaf bee-
tle was released, which ate the air potatoes and left nothing for vol-unteers to pluck from the ground, 
she said.
Gainesville then transitioned 
from the Great Air Potato Round-up to the current Great Invader Raider Rally, Geoffrey Parks, the 
natural resource management pro-gram coordinator for the depart-ment, said.  
“The big difference really is 
that air potatoes are really easy to pick up,” Parks said. “You don’t need any tools, and it doesn’t take a lot of muscle, whereas removing 
ardisia is a little more labor-inten-
sive, especially if you’re trying to pull plants out of the ground.”
Efforts to eradicate Gainesville’s invasive species continueCRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A maintenance worker at University 
House apartments was arrested Monday morning after police said he stole $900 
worth of gift cards from his manager’s 
desk.
Sometime between Jan. 29 and Feb. 7, 
Andrew James Hegyi, 27, stole three Visa 
gift cards — each worth $300 — from the 
desk, according to a police report.
Hegyi then went on a week-long shop-
ping spree between Feb. 8 and Feb. 16, making purchases at Advance Auto Parts, 
Wal-Mart and the Boot Factory Outlet, 
among others, according to the report.
In total, the report stated, Hegyi spent 
about $614.
Hegyi’s largest purchase was for about 
$246 at the Boot Factory Outlet, according to the report. His smallest purchase was for almost $4 at Olive Garden.According to police, surveillance foot-
age from Wal-Mart, Target and the Boot 
Factory Outlet show Hegyi using the cards.
The apartment complex, situated at 725 
NW 13th St., hired Hegyi 
about three years ago, and his position gave 
him access to the man-
ager’s office, according to the report.
He later told police 
the gift cards were found in a trash can outside the 
office, according to the report.
Hegyi could not be reached for com-
ment as of press time.
Police arrested Hegyi on a charge of 
grand theft and took him to the Alachua County Jail, from where he was released on his own recognizance Tuesday.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Custodian worker 
steals $900 in gift cards LOCAL BUSINESS HOSTS EVENT 
FOR COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO 
SHARE INNOVATIVE IDEAS.
By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local business will hold its third Stu-
dio Talk for entrepreneurs and small busi-
ness owners Thursday.
Home Work, situated at 528 N. Main 
St., is a co-working studio for people such as illustrators, designers and writers to create and share ideas.
The studio will host John Engels, a 
co-founder of the AxoGen biotechnology company, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at its up-coming session.
Edith Williams opened the space in Oc-
tober and launched the Studio Talk series in January. Thursday’s talk will include wine and food, she said.
“The discussion will be about helping 
people figure out what they are excited about,” she said. “Either those just start-ing out or those who already own busi-nesses.”
Studio Talk is a free event open to any-one — regardless of his or her experience 
level, Williams said.  
“Gainesville has a lot of creative people 
who are working on the fringe of innova-
tion,” she said. “This is a place for people 
to collaborate, have a sense of community 
and be inspired by each other.”
Mary Whiting, a classical archaeolo-
gist, is using the space to write a book.
“It’s like the gym for your mind,” she 
said. “It’s a place you can go to do re-search, collaborate or even have a cup of coffee with someone.”
Whiting said she has never missed a 
Studio Talk.
“We aren’t all in an uncomfortable au-
ditorium attending a lecture,” she said. “It’s real people talking to us as equals, and that is something special.”Wine, food and creativity
Hegyi
“Gainesville has a lot of creative 
people who are working on the fringe 
of innovation. This is a place for 
people to collaborate, have a sense of 
community and be inspired by each 
other.”
Edith Williams
studio owner
A series of events will be held The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnA hero webs a 
comeback
With Florida’s presidential primaries and Gainesville 
city elections ﬁ  nally over, we can take a sigh and brieﬂ  y shift focus toward a non-political issue worthy of discussion: Spider-Man. For those actu-ally invested in the real world who may not have 
heard the breaking news from last week, Marvel Studios released a new trailer for “Captain America: Civil War,” which featured the return of everyone’s friendly, neighbor-hood web-slinger. This is now the third movie installment of Spidey, which automatically raises a number of concerns for all of us, particularly for an anxious opinions edito — uh, many staffers at the Alligator.
In our latest Darts & Laurels segment, we highlighted 
Marvel’s missed opportunity to follow the lineage of post-
Peter-Parker Spider-Man and cast an African-American or 
Latino actor for the newest wall-crawler, not as a catering to the “PC police” but as both a statement of redemption from the newest Fantastic Four’s fumble and a worthy addition to the non-white-male-lead trend beautifully executed in the newest Star Wars.
Our curiosities also lead us to question the direction of 
the new web-head’s character. While Marvel’s president, Kevin Feige, revealed last year that the new Spider-Man 
will feature a teenage Peter Parker thrown into the greater, 
Avengers-centric conﬂ  icts of his world, we question how the writers’ choices and how actor Tom Holland’s perfor-mance will fare in comparison to past installments. For in-stance, will Holland’s Spidey channel that of the conserva-tive, nerdy Tobey Maguire or the smooth-operator, cheeky Andrew Garﬁ  eld? Or perhaps Holland and the directors of “Civil War,” the Russo brothers, will give us an iteration of Spider-Man beyond our expectations.
Another concern we have pertains to the role Spider-Man 
will play in the new movie’s plot. Fans of the original “Civil War” comic series recall how Spidey originally started on Iron Man’s side but then led a mass exodus over to Cap-tain America’s team, forcing Iron Man to build a new army by releasing Marvel’s worst villains from a high-security prison. But given the movie’s signiﬁ  cantly smaller cast of heroes, as well as its focus on Captain America’s personal story and additional debut of the character Black Panther, 
we wonder if the movie’s Spider-Man will follow the same 
path as his comic book equivalent. All of this excitement and angst is enough to make that one opinions edito — uh, us Alligator staffers — crawl underneath a Spider-Man blanket back home and await the midnight release of “Civil War” on May 6.
Ultimately, no matter how the movie pans out, the 
mythology of Spider-Man will live on in fans’ hearts. For instance, even though Marvel devastated the Deadpool 
community by unofﬁ  cially and poorly casting him in the 
Wolverine stand-alone ﬁ  lm, fans enthusiastically held out for the most recent redemption installment. And no matter how many times Michael Bay ran the Transformers series into the ground, fans can unashamedly crawl back to their ‘90s animation series and action ﬁ  gures.
The allure of superheroes in general is the source of 
imagination, inspiration and revelation they provide. Not unlike the novels or the ﬁ  lms, superhero tales offer us a 
medium through which to engage our youthful spirits. At 
its best, the newest Spider-Man will evoke such joy within viewers, and at the very least, his reemergence will hope-fully provide a few witty remarks and a decent showcasing of tight red spandex.Politics, progress and manipulation: Hillary Clinton
Progress entails moving forward on the tra-jectory of history and struggling for greater liberties and, ultimately, a better quality of life. At the very least, we can imagine with more relevance the notion of greater 
freedom, what Hegel meant when he wrote, “The History of the world is none other than the prog-ress of the consciousness of Freedom.”
Hegel thought struggles throughout history 
ultimately beget progress and freedom, which implies nonetheless that the status quo has delib-erately disfavored certain people.
Progress, as I imagine, is not the defense and mainte-
nance of the status quo. As such, in the real world, Hillary 
Clinton is no progressive — but she loves the label.
Her words, especially when juxtaposed with her actions, 
provide great fodder for an analysis of the ways in which the 
powerful twist words, bastardizing their conventional mean-ing and ultimately turning reality on its head.
Clinton markets herself as a tireless advocate for gay 
rights. The same Clinton whose husband signed the odious Defense of Marriage Act into law and who herself said in 2004, “I believe that marriage is… a sacred bond between 
a man and a woman… I have had occasion in my life to 
defend marriage.”
She’s not an advocate; she’s a politician who adopts 
“views” that are politically expedient. Defending bigotry when it’s the norm and jumping on the gay-rights band-wagon a few years later isn’t progressive: It’s opportunistic and shrill.
She recently gloriﬁ  ed the memory of the Reagans as “low-
key advocates” of HIV/AIDS research, when anyone who 
cared enough to pay attention or who was actually affected 
by the epidemic when it broke out knew they didn’t give a rat’s proverbial ass about AIDS or even one of its homo-sexual victims. Falsifying history for the sake of a campaign is not progressive.
Candidly, I don’t think an exponent of progress in soci-
ety calls black youths “superpredators” and proceeds to say, “we need to bring (them) to heel,” but we can ex-cuse that overt racism because her website states valiantly, “America’s long struggle with race is far from ﬁ  nished.”
Clinton tells us she keeps Wall Street honest; 
all the while they ﬁ  ll her coffers. She is “against” the culture of mass incarceration she and her hus-band helped usher in, all while private prisons bankroll her. She claims she’ll “hold drug compa-nies accountable” though she takes more from Big Pharma than any other candidate. As Marx wrote so mystifyingly, “all that is solid melts into air.”
Words have meaning and, ultimately, great power. As 
we know, people, too, can possess great power and have 
their fair sway over how words are interpreted, ultimately 
asserting a reality that is usually distinct from the one we actually inhabit.
Hillary Clinton — and any other politician, for that mat-
ter — can say whatever she pleases. But they all should re-member people don’t take kindly to condescension, manip-ulation or deception. They should also remember we, too, have words. I am foolish enough to believe certain objective truths do indeed exist. We collectively perceive the irony in 
the words of despots because we know they represent a falsi-
ﬁ  ed version of the truths around us.
We know the word progress means something, and Clin-
ton’s defense of the white heteronormative, neoliberal status quo is something wholly different. Clinton’s record affords new insight into the dastardly ways in which those with power assign new meanings to words, ultimately using them as weapons against us.
As such, I shudder when I imagine what she actually 
means by “love and kindness.”
Hillary Clinton and all her powerful friends on both sides 
of the aisle can “misspeak” (read: lie) as they please, for his-tory will not absolve them, and we the people will ultimately have the last word.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
When I was in elemen-
tary school, I spent a lot of time in the car. 
Whether it was driv-
ing my siblings and 
myself to the various interests that occupied our time, such as 
dance class or soccer practice, 
driving us all to school and back every day like an absolute saint, or driving the family off across the coun-try on vacation, my lovely, self-sacriﬁ  cing 
parents did a lot of driving three young, 
talkative, easily riled-up kids around. Not to sound like someone who despises tech-nology — because I don’t — but they man-
aged to do this day in and day out without 
the helpful distraction of an iPad for small, sticky ﬁ  ngers to latch onto. I applaud their self-control, and I must remember to call home more often.
As a mechanism for distraction, brain-
growth and general amusement, my moth-er kept a few appropriately named “car books” tucked under the passenger seat at 
all times. Usually the car book was one 
from the "Harry Potter" series, because my family is nothing if not HP-devoted.
The car book was a welcome distrac-
tion, and with due diligence my older 
sister or I would read the antics of our 
three favorite Hogwarts students aloud. The wilder the interpretation, the better. Voices, gesticulations, great pauses for ef-
fect: We did it all. I look back fondly on 
these memories as being ones that not only helped my love for "Harry Potter" grow into lifelong obsession, but also en-couraged me to expect some kind of book-
reading to happen during any car ride. I 
never get motion sickness while reading on the bus or the plane, and I thank my mother’s foresight for it.
The problem is, I don’t get in nearly as 
much book time as I used to.
We all intend to read, whether before 
bed, on the bus or standing in line for Krishna lunch, but more often than not, 
it turns to scrolling through Facebook or 
falling asleep with a despondently unread book sitting on your chest.
So in the spirit of missing the voices of my sisters relating the wit of Harry’s ﬁ  rst quidditch match, I decided to try audiobooks, and 
I recommend everyone give it a 
go as well.
Audiobooks are convenient 
on the run, generally inexpen-
sive and come with plenty of 
playacting of voices, dramatic effect and emotional upheaval. 
More literary than a podcast but not as 
distracting as a movie, audiobooks are the 
perfect blend between the satisfying bulk 
of a book and the relaxing release of mu-sic. 
You can ﬁ  nd audiobooks on Amazon, 
through iPhone apps or through your local library if you feel like going old-school and breaking out the dusty CD player. Maybe you’re cool like that.
In honor of Women’s History Month, 
here are some titles read by lovely, kick-butt women to inspire your morning com-mute, your end-of-the-day bubble bath or your afternoon coffee.
I recommend Roald Dahl's “Matilda,” 
read by Kate Winslet, because she can balance the quirky whimsy of childhood with the mature nostalgia of adulthood perfectly.
There’s also “Pride and Prejudice” by 
Jane Austen read by Rosamund Pike. Pike actually played the character of Jane in the 2005 movie adaptation, which gives her 
elegant and softly intimate voice a new 
depth of relatability.
“Why Not Me?” by Mindy Kaling, read 
by Kaling herself, is also a must-listen. Hear all of Kaling’s whip-smart and crack-
ly comedy as it was meant to be read — by 
the author herself. Hearing her story about meeting the Obamas feels as present as if she told it to you over cocktails.
I hope these audiobooks give you some 
entertaining times over the next week. 
If all else fails, it never hurts to invest 
in a few “car books” to keep stowed away in the backseat. Personally, I’d recom-
mend Harry Potter.
Sally Greider is an English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on 
Wednesdays.Take a chance, give audiobooks a try Column
If asked about their latest 
views on quantitative eas-ing in the Federal Reserve, 
most people wouldn’t have 
an opinion. The same thing 
can be said about the latest break-throughs in particle physics, 
medical technology or any area 
of science for that matter. On the other hand, if politics comes up, people will adamantly share their opinion — informed or not — on what they believe to 
be right.
It seems people are participating in the 
political discussion for 2016 more than 
they have in any election for the past de-
cade. Although the U.S. political system 
is signiﬁ  cantly improved with more opin-ions than general apathy, the question is whether many political views are backed by evidence. Anyone who has seen two people 
scream at one another with deep rage knows 
the source of such contention is often not what is true, but what people believe to be true. The U.S. needs to reach the point 
where the two ﬁ  nally intersect.
The solution is simple: All people need 
to have educated and enlightened political 
conversations is look to political scientists for the common trends occurring in politics 
today. Americans don’t have to look for po-
litical scientists to give them their opinions; people are smart enough to form their own views. The problem is political scientists cur-
rently aren’t the ones setting the guidelines 
on political opinions. Many TV hosts on news networks like Fox News and MSNBC may read the news, but they have no educa-tion for their musings to be deemed legiti-
mate, as they would have us believe. While 
Fox News hosts like Bill O’Reilly may have more than one degree listed under their edu-cation background, Sean Hannity, the man 
who hosted the 2016 Conservative Political 
Action Conference, dropped out of both New York University and Adelphi University. 
Glenn Beck, whose books ﬂ  ood the politi-
cal section at Barnes & Noble, has a higher 
education that goes as far as attending one 
class at Yale University. While MSNBC may have former Rhodes Scholar Rachel Mad-dow, analysts like Al Sharpton and Chuck Todd never graduated college.
The lack of legitimacy in the 
sources of information in social 
studies does not stop at politi-
cal science. Does anyone else remember learning U.S. history through Oprah Winfrey and Mi-
chael Douglas? Television chan-
nels like MSNBC, Fox News and The History Channel are all 
meant to improve the education of the gen-eral public, not supplant it. While it is in-
triguing to listen to Liam Neeson explain an-
cient Greece’s “very particular set of skills,” it does nothing to further the discussion on the hearts of civilization.
College students are persuaded against 
pursuing a degree in political science at a time when political scientists are needed more than ever. Graduates of political sci-ence are pressed with harsh stigmas. One 
example is by John Oliver, who argued, 
“The only question a poli-sci major is really qualiﬁ  ed to answer is: ‘Was it weird having to move back in with your parents after col-
lege?’” The common perception may be that 
the only degree worth pursuing today is one requiring students to pass Physics 2. Howev-er, people with an educational background centered in chemistry and physics aren’t the 
ones who engineered this country. 
We don’t need leaders with a science, 
technology, engineering and/or mathemat-
ics major who memorized equations in their 
back pockets to answer our nation’s tough-
est questions. This country needs educated people with backgrounds in the political trends of the past and present to help an-swer questions about the future. This coun-
try needs legitimate political scientists.  
People are ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nding a reason to par-
ticipate in political discussions — that’s the 
ﬁ  rst step. The next step is for personal opin-
ions to, at the very least, occasionally begin 
with “according to” or “I read somewhere.” Then again, what’s most important is all this talk on politics translates into Americans ﬁ  nding their ways to the polls come Novem-
ber.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical 
engineering freshman. His column appears 
on Wednesdays.The legitimacy of political scienceColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left: Mary Hausch, Rocky Draud and Shirley Lasseter watch the election results for mayor of Gainesville at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Tuesday night.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bryan Boggiano, a 20-year-old UF criminology sophomore and volunteer with Gators for Hillary, yells and 
holds up a Hillary sign at the Gator’s Dockside results watch party on Tuesday.
RIGHT:
T om Miller (center), 50, cel-ebrates with other Lauren Poe supporters at First Magnitude Brewing company on Tuesday night as the election results roll in. “It’s one of the first votes I’ve made since moving here in 1984 where I have no regrets, ” he said. 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
FAR RIGHT:
Noorul Hassan, an 18-year-old UF mathematics freshman, gets snack food from a buffet outside of the High Dive, where Bernie Sanders supporters rallied for the Vermont senator. Hassan said she was extremely in favor of Sanders but didn’t think he was left enough.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
 Nicole Gomez / Alligator
Adrian Hayes-Santos hugs Liz Schreiber, a campaign volunteer whom he thanked personally in his victory speech, at The Bank Bar & Lounge while waiting for election results on Tuesday.Gainesville waits for votes to roll in 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Jenn Powell, 37, watches Tuesday’s election results at the High Dive, an event she coordinated for Bernie Sanders fans. 
“I started all this, and they’re calling me the campaign manager, ” Powell said.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
For Sale: Condo 1BR/1BA - 705sq.ft. Bike to UF or ride bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018     3-21-5-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.
Financial Assistance, Support & Counseling
Gift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-
216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.
com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    
3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/21-3/24 
from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; 
Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      3-21-5-20Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not 
less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Help disabled artist setup & break down 
booth at Santa Fe College Art Festival: 
Disabled artist needs help with booth; need 3 
hrs Fri afternoon April 1st & 3 hrs Sun (5 to 8) April 3rd. $20/hr for the 6 hrs. Help carry dis-play & tent materials from truck to site, help 
set up booth, then help break down display, 
load truck. Call Larry Hering 954 258 4926 
or email lhering216@yahoo.com    3-17-16-3-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, 
guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. 
Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org14 Help Wanted 15 Services
 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
T osti's disqualifications have 
hurt the Florida men's golf team.Read the story on pg. 16.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Sloan, McMurtry earn SEC honors
Florida's Bridget Sloan was named the co-SEC Gymnast of the Week and 
Alex McMurtry was named the SEC Specialist of the Week on Tuesday.. The Gators defeated North Carolina at home on Friday's Senior Night, as both McMurtry and Sloan earned perfect 10s. Florida baseball shuts out Florida State
MEN'S BASKETBALL
UF dominates UNF in NIT opener
THE GATORS LOST THE SERIES 
FINALE AGAINST NO. 3 AUBURN.
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
The Florida softball team is in an unusual 
situation.
Coming off a 5-4 loss to Auburn on Monday 
night – the team’s first defeat of the season – 
the No. 1 Gators (26-1) will look to respond tonight against Winthrop (10-16) at 6 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
"We did a lot of good things this past week-
end, but we obviously have a lot to improve upon," coach Tim Walton said in a release.
"Winthrop is a very talented team and I’m 
excited to see how our team responds after a hard-fought SEC series."
Monday’s defeat concluded the second-longest winning streak to open a season in program history, as Florida fell just two games shy of the 28-0 mark set by last year’s team.
The Tigers’ victory over the Gators in the 
closing game of the series was dealt in heart-breaking fashion.
After entering in relief of Delanie Gourley in 
the bottom of the seventh, sophomore Aleshia Ocasio was tasked with protecting a 4-3 lead.
However, she gave up two runs on two hits 
– the first blown save of her career.
But despite this lone blemish, Florida’s sol-
id run production throughout its lineup earned UF the series’ win.
Junior Justine McLean and sophomore 
Kayli Kvistad are both in the midst of the lon-gest hitting streaks of their careers, at six and seven games, respectively.
Seniors Taylore Fuller and Kirsti Merritt are Gators softball looking to 
rebound against Winthrop Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Nelson Maldonado celebrates after hitting a home run during the second inning of Florida's 6-0 win over FSU on Tuesday night. 
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 14      By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Nelson Maldonado may be a 
freshman, but he rose to the occa-
sion in his first game against FSU.
In the second inning, Maldona-
do turned on a 2-1 pitch from FSU 
starter Tyler Holton and sent it 
flying over the left-field bleachers for a solo home run to put Florida ahead 1-0.
An inning later, Peter Alonso 
stepped up to the plate.
The junior first baseman 
smoked a two-run shot to left to grab a 3-0 lead and help set UF’s offense in motion early.
Behind the two Tampa natives’ 
homers, the No. 1 Gators (18-1) went on to defeat the No. 11 Semi-noles 6-0 Tuesday night at McK-ethan Stadium.
The win marked the first time 
since 1994 that UF has shutout FSU at home.
Maldonado, who finished the 
game 1-for-3 with an RBI, said he knew his homer was gone because the wind was blowing out to left.
"I felt like I got a good piece on 
it," he said. "I still ran hard, but once Lars (Davis) gave me a hand-shake, I knew the ball was gone."
The Gators used nearly flaw-
less defense to help starter Dane 
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Florida’s seventh three-pointer came 
from Kasey Hill, who dribbled up the court and pulled up behind the arc early in the shot clock, a decision that usually makes coach Mike White shake his head in frustration.
But not on Tuesday night."We were just feeling it I guess," for-
ward Dorian Finney-Smith said.
"It was just one of those days where 
everything was falling."
The No. 2-seed Gators (20-14) made 
12 of their first 18 threes in their 97-68 win over No. 7-seed North Florida in the first round of the National Invitation Tournament in Jacksonville, tying a 2009 school record for most three pointers in a first half.
No UF player seemed to miss – Hill, 
Chris Chiozza, Devin Robinson, KeV-aughn Allen and Dorian Finney-Smith all made at least one three-pointer in the first half.
After taking a 19-14 lead to open the 
first period, Florida went on a 21-6 run to break the game open.
UF led by 32 points by halftime."Anytime you shoot the ball like we 
did and move it as well as we did, good things are going to happen," UF assistant coach Dusty May said.
"It all came together tonight."Allen made four of his first five shots 
from behind the arc, including three in a row to start the game to add to his 13 points, while Finney-Smith led UF with 15 points and added nine rebounds and four steals.
Ten different Florida players recorded 
an assist, including Chiozza, who fin-ished with a game-high seven.
Kasey Hill collected four of his five 
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
Dunning work around the Semi-
noles’ lineup.
In the second inning, UF third 
baseman Jonathan India erased a leadoff double after catching the runner too far off second on a ground ball.
FSU (13-4) led off the third in-
ning with two singles, but Dun-ning escaped trouble by inducing Quincy Nieporte to ground into an inning-ending double play.
Florida turned two more dou-
ble plays in the fourth and sixth innings, marking a season-high three double plays on Tuesday.
Dunning tossed 5.2 innings, 
allowed seven hits and surren-dered no runs, striking out five batters in his second win of the season. The junior said he loved getting the chance to start against the in-state rival.
"I’ve always wanted to pitch 
against FSU since freshman year," Dunning said.
 "It’s a dream come true."Meanwhile, Florida State’s 
defense showed holes.
With two outs in the fourth 
inning, Buddy Reed stole second and advanced to third after nei-ther Seminole infielder covered second base to receive the catch-er’s throw.
JJ Schwarz then knocked 
a single up the middle to plate Reed and give Florida a 4-0 ad-vantage. The sophomore fin-ished with one RBI and a team-high three hits.
The Gators tacked their final 
two runs in the fifth after loading 
the bases.
India singled through the left 
side to score sophomore Mike 
Rivera, and Jeremy Vasquez raced home from third to score after Guthrie struck out on a pitch that trickled away from the catcher.
The pitching combination of 
freshman Jackson Kowar, junior Kirby Snead and junior Shaun Anderson sealed the win. 
The trio went 3.1 scoreless in-
nings in relief, allowing just two hits.
Florida will now begin South-
eastern Conference play with a three-game home series against Missouri starting Friday at 7 p.m.
@Pinakk12 
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Dunning tossed 5.2 
scoreless innings and struck 
out five batters on Tuesdaysteals in the first half on his 
way to a 14-point performance. John Egbunu, playing in his last game of the season after tearing a ligament in his right thumb on March 8, had 13 points and 10 rebounds on 6-of-10 shooting.
After the game, White said the 
sophomore center will undergo season-ending surgery on his hand on Thursday.
The Gators shot 51.5 percent 
from the field, their highest per-centage since Feb. 27 against LSU.
"Once they got in a rhythm, 
and made one or two they started feeling it," May said.
"It was contagious."Florida came out sluggish in 
the second half and missed 10 of its 14 three pointers, but its lead 
was too large for the Ospreys to 
overcome.
North Florida (22-12), the na-
tion’s leader in made three-point 
field goals (411), converted on 
just 9 of its 25 shots from behind 
the arc.
"Our guys had a great ap-
proach. I think part of the reason 
was that they’re familiar with how good of players North Flori-da is," May said.
"They came in focused and 
wanted to do a good job defen-
sively and they did."
Florida will face No. 3-seed 
Ohio State in the second round 
of the NIT in Columbus, Ohio, on Sunday.
"Twenty (wins) is a good 
number, but obviously we want more," May said.
"We’re gonna try to add some 
more to it."
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13Egbunu will have season-ending surgeryalso looking to continue this weekend’s success going forward. The veteran duo went a com-bined 8-for-19 against Auburn with three home runs, eight RBIs and six runs scored.
With the series victory over the No. 3 Tigers 
(23-3, 1-2 SEC), Florida has already shown that it is worthy of the nation’s top ranking, assem-bling a 3-1 record against top-five adversaries.
Collectively, the Gators have outscored 
these opponents 26-13, including an impressive 8-0 run-rule victory against No. 2 Michigan in the second game of the season.
If this small sample size is any indication, 
Winthrop must be at its best on Wednesday if it wants to upset Florida.
The Eagles are 1-8 at neutral sites and a 
meager 1-4 in road contests this season, while the Gators haven’t lost a regular season home game since March 15, 2015.
In two games against ranked competition – 
both at No. 12 Georgia in mid-February – Win-throp was outclassed, dropping the contests 18-3 and 11-0.
On paper, the Gators exceed the Eagles in 
every major statistical category while having a far more arduous schedule.
But with the prestige of back-to-back cham-
pionships comes the realization that every team will be attempting to knock down the defend-ing champs.
No opponent should be taken lightly.
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.org SOFTBALL,  from pg 13The Gators haven't lost a regular-season home game since March 15, 2015
AP Photo
John Egbunu attempts a layup during Florida's 97-68 win over North Florida in the National Invitation T ournament on Tuesday.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio (middle) high-fives a teammate during Florida's double-header sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
For a top-10 team, the Gators 
may be one of the biggest under-
dogs competing at their upcoming meet.
As the No. 9 Florida women’s 
swimming and diving team begins its four-day NCAA championship competition today in Atlanta, there are still some doubts as to how much of a title threat the Gators are.
Nine UF swimmers will be com-
peting across 14 different events at the NCAA meet. Compared to 
most teams competing, the Gators 
will be playing with a short deck of competitors. But while the Gators may be lacking in quantity, coach Gregg Troy believes his team is not short on quality.
“Most of the teams are some-
where between nine and 15 (swim-mers),” Troy said. “Having num-
bers at that meet isn’t as important 
as having people there swimming very, very well.”
In addition to the swimmers 
participating, the Gators also re-ceived a much-needed boost when senior diver Kahlia Warner quali-fied for the NCAA meet in all three diving competitions in last week’s 
NCAA diving zone event.
But even so, if UF expects to 
compete for the program’s third 
national championship, or at least extend its 15-year streak of finish-ing in the top 10 at the NCAA meet, it will need to significantly improve from where they were a month ago.
In the team’s last meet at the 
Southeastern Conference Champi-onships, the Gators finished sixth overall in a 12-team field. During the five-day meet, the team was unable to capture its first overall swimming victory until the final day when senior Natalie Hinds cap-tured the SEC title in the 50-yard freestyle.
In total, the Gators won three 
individual SEC titles, but were far from being a championship threat to overall winner Texas A&M.
The Gators will begin the NCAA 
meet today by competing in the 800-yard freestyle relay. In last year’s NCAA meet, the Gators fin-ished 10th overall in the 800 with a time of 7:04.48. At the SEC meet, the Gators 
swam an overall time of 7:03.44. Even though the latter time was good enough to place podium in the SEC meet, Troy and his team know they will need to be faster in Atlanta if they expect to finish at or near the top of the leaderboards.
“We’re going to have to com-
pete better than what we did at the conference meet,” Troy said.
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Palmer/Salloum Tennis Center at Ole 
Miss is a unique place to play.
Different from the typical six courts aligned 
side-by-side, the Rebels’ court features rows of 
stands placed every two courts. Each player will see and feel the presence of fans a mere 10 feet away.
And they won’t be cheering for Florida.When No. 13 Florida (9-2, 4-0 Southeastern 
Conference) travels to Oxford on Friday to begin 
a three game, two-week road trip, it will feel the 
full effect of a hostile environment.
“Usually on a Friday afternoon they have all 
the fraternities out there ... It’ll be extra tricky 
for us,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “That’s 
the SEC, it’s the SEC way, so we better get used 
to it.”
Thornqvist said his players need to have 
thick skin. Friday will be the first time the crowd 
will be that close to Florida, and Thornqvist 
doesn’t want his players to get distracted.
But the opposing players will be even more 
hostile than the fans.
The Gators will be facing an Ole Miss (8-3, 
1-3 SEC) team that has lost three of its last four games, including recent back-to-back 4-3 losses 
against No. 18 LSU and No. 14 Texas A&M.But the Rebels started the season 7-0, includ-
ing a 4-3 win over then-No. 8 Stanford — a team Florida lost to earlier this season.
Ole Miss won’t be easy, and as soon as 
that matchup is done, the Gators will head to Starkville for a matchup with Mississippi State.
Thornqvist views it as another important 
challenge — one that will help his team get more road experience and prepare the players for the postseason. The trip to Oxford will be the first time Florida takes to the road since its Cali-fornia road trip at the end of February, when the Gators emerged 0-2.
But for a team with ranked doubles pairings 
and singles players, it’s a challenge they’re look-ing forward to.
Despite dropping their first doubles point 
against No. 26 Kentucky, Thornqvist wasn’t worried. He stressed to his team that they won’t always win every doubles point because of how much the SEC has improved and because of the new scoring format, which features doubles matches played to six points with no advantag-es as opposed to eight points with advantages.
But what Florida lacked in doubles, it made 
up for in singles, as the Gators took all six matches against Kentucky.
And against reigning national champion 
Vanderbilt, Florida was back to its normal self, winning 4-2. The Gators will need to be in simi-lar form if they want to leave this weekend with two road wins.
“It’s exciting to go on the road, too. It gives 
us a chance to spend some time together,” Thornqvist said. “...Ole Miss and Mississippi State. They’re really good.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist smiles during introductions prior to Florida’s win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kahlia Warner dives during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center.
WOMEN’S TENNIS
Gators head to Mississippi for pair of conference road tests
UF women’s swimming and diving to compete at NCAAsBy Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s golf team 
has found a formula for success 
this season.
The No. 2-ranked Gators 
opened the Spring season with 
a 23-shot victory at the Sea Best 
Invitational on Feb. 2 and pro-ceeded to collect a third-place ﬁ  n-ish at their home tournament, the 
SunTrust Gator Invitational, on 
Feb. 21.
And, most recently, their play 
at the Southern Highlands Col-legiate in Las Vegas on March 9, a tournament that featured four top-ﬁ  ve teams and nine top-20 teams, saw them earn a runner-
up ﬁ  nish.
However, it’s inconsistent play 
and mental errors that are keep-
ing the team from reaching its potential — and from attaining enough sleep.
“It hurt,” UF coach J.C. Dea-
con said about sophomore Ale-jandro Tosti’s disqualiﬁ  cation 
from Round 1 in Vegas. “It hurt 
all of us. You know, it cost us a spot in the ﬁ  nal group. It cost us two hours of sleep that day. And, you know, those little things add up throughout a tournament and throughout a year.”
Tosti signed an incorrect score-
card at the end of the ﬁ  rst round, 
warranting a disqualiﬁ  cation from 
his second-straight tournament.
UF originally held a 1-shot lead 
at plus 3 before the error was 
caught. The Gators would end up dropping four shots that day. UF ultimately ﬁ  nished the tourna-ment at plus 9, four shots back of tournament champion and now-No. 3 Southern California.
“It’s unacceptable what hap-
pened,” the second-year head 
coach said. “It hurt the team, ob-
viously, and it’s gonna hurt (Tos-
ti) a little bit individually … It’s 
just something that can’t happen. 
It’s pretty simple.”
Deacon said Tosti fully under-
stands what’s expected of him and doesn’t anticipate the issues that have haunted the Rosario, Argentina, native to plague him 
going forward.
Deacon added that aside from 
star freshman Sam Horsﬁ  eld, who 
won the Southern Highlands Col-legiate for his second victory of the year, many players on this young squad have struggled clos-ing out their rounds.
Freshman Jorge Garcia battled 
inconsistent play all week in Ve-gas. Garcia’s rounds of 73, 72 and 76 had some highlights, including plenty of birdies and a hole-in-one during Round 1 for the ﬁ  rst ace of his collegiate career, but strings of bogeys and double bogeys paint-ed a wild picture on his scorecard. Garcia’s struggles stretch back to 
the Gator Invitational where he 
ﬁ  nished the event at even par. In his last six competitive rounds, Garcia has shot over par three times and under par only once.
However, Deacon said that al-
though Garcia wasn’t sharp in Las Vegas, he is still a feisty competi-tor.
“That kid is a ﬁ  ghter, man,” 
Deacon said. “He’s unbelievable. You can count on him like no one else. He’s gonna give it his all … He’s gonna be a big leader on and off the course the rest of the year 
for us.”
Tosti, who was excluded from 
individual competition in Las Ve-
gas but was allowed to compete for the team competition, opened the ﬁ  nal round with ﬁ  ve birdies on the front nine for a 5-under 31. However, three bogeys and a double undid all that.
Deacon said freshman Kyler 
Tate had an impressive week with 
his ball striking but was let down 
by his putter on the fast and ﬁ  rm greens of the Southern Highlands Golf Club.
The Gators will have a week 
to work out the kinks. UF returns to action on March 21 to compete in the Valspar Collegiate in Palm City.
“Its gotta be a team effort if 
we’re gonna do the things that 
we think we can,” Deacon said. 
“We’ve gotta get all ﬁ  ve guys go-ing in the same direction, and we’re close. We’re not there yet, but we’re close.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016
MEN’S GOLF
Inconsistency, mental errors plaguing No. 2 Florida
LEFT:
Alejandro T osti follows through 
on a swing at the 2016 SunTurst Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
Jorge Garcia tees off during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invita-tional at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff