By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Bags have begun to form under-
neath Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White’s eyes.
Up until eight months ago, the 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cer’s life was 
routine: four days working the night 
shift from 4 p.m. to 3:30 a.m., and 
then four days off, with a couple overtime shifts in between. 
But then he became Basketball 
Cop, the ofﬁ  cer who went viral af-ter he took a few minutes to play 
basketball with local kids while he 
was on duty. And now, at noon on 
a Tuesday — when White would 
normally be watching sports — he’s monitoring the aftermath of his in-
ternet fame.
In the months since the video 
clip spread through social media, the Basketball Cop has built courts 
and hoops in Gainesville neighbor-hoods, shipped sports equipment to police departments throughout the 
U.S. and become a father ﬁ  gure for 
a 3-year-old boy.
The goal, White said, is to build 
positive relationships between po-lice and the community. But the 
extra load has taken a toll on the 
46-year-old as his old patrol work takes a backseat to community out-
reach.
“My time at work has become 
my weekend,” he said.
•   •   •It was 5 p.m. on Jan. 15 when 
White received a call. 
It was yet another noise com-
plaint: nothing out of the ordinary 
for a Friday night.
A group of kids and teenagers 
were playing basketball on North-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
Florida to use ﬁ  ve-player rotation 
at running back
Transfer Mark Thompson is hoping to see
signiﬁ  cant playing time on Saturday, pg. 14
Gainesville bars see hurricane crowd
No shortage of celebration Thursday, pg. 3
Students begin race for Senate
Slating for Senate continues next week, pg. 3Stay updated on Hurricane Hermine
Follow us on Twitter @TheAlligator and 
online at alligator.org.
Stay updated on Hurricane Hermine
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Pointing at a map dotted with colored pushpins, Gainesville Police 
Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White shows where he has delivered basketballs and hoops as part of his Basketball Cop Foundation.
HURRICANE HERMINE
Staff Report
UF and Gainesville ofﬁ  cials are 
bracing for ﬂ  ooding and strong winds as the ﬁ  rst hurricane to hit Florida in more than a decade ar-rives.
As of press time, Hurricane Her-
mine is expected to hit late Thurs-day or early Friday near Apala-chicola, Florida, according to the 
National Weather Service. Wind 
gusts as high as 60 mph and up to six inches of rain are predicted. 
On Thursday, UF and Santa Fe 
College canceled classes at 4 p.m. 
Both colleges and Alachua County 
Public Schools canceled Friday classes. 
Gainesville’s Regional Transit 
System reduced the number of bus-
es Thursday. When winds reach 35 
mph or more, the buses will stop completely. 
University Police and essential 
personnel will be on UF’s campus during the storm, according to a UF 
Housing email. UF placed sandbags 
near Keys Residential Complex to prevent ﬂ  ooding. 
UF’s dining halls closed Thurs-
day night and will reopen Friday 
when it is safe, according to the 
email. The Field and Fork Food Pantry will not hand out food dur-ing the storm, Ambre Hobson, an 
assistant director of student suc-
cess in the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce, wrote in an email. 
For Gainesville residents, shel-
ters will have food and water, but residents are responsible for bring-ing food and bedding, said Alachua County spokesman Mark Sexton. 
Three emergency shelters 
opened Thursday and will stay open as long as needed, he said. To check availability, call 352-264-6500.
Eastside High School, 1201 SE 
43rd St., and Easton Newberry Sports Complex, 24880 NW 16th  Classes canceled, preparations begin as Hermine rains on GNV
SEE STORM,  PAGE 8
‘It’s nonstop:’ the legacy of Basketball Cop
SEE COPS,  PAGE 4By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF made a decision Thursday 
that puts the Student Body one 
step away from saving $140,000 on course material.
Pending approval from the Flor-
ida Board of Governors, UF plans to replace WebAssign, an online program, for Analytic Geometry and Calculus 1. The current pro-gram costs each student $70.
Ximera, a free program, would 
replace WebAssign as an online program for Calculus 1. About 2,000 students take the course ev-ery year, UF Provost Joseph Glover said. If the new program is suc-
cessful, it could be used in Analytic 
Geometry and Calculus 2 and other courses that use WebAssign. 
“So we expect when we’re 
done, we’re going to be saving stu-dents a minimum of half a million dollars a year,” Glover said. 
The UF Board of Trustees also changed a metric for measuring UF’s progress. Instead of look-ing at funding spent on research, 
progress will be measured by the 
amount of technology licensed by UF, which is ranked by the Asso-ciation of University Technology Managers. 
UF lost hundreds of thousands 
of dollars in performance funding because it only scored a 7 in the research expenditure category, 
Glover said. Performance funding 
is distributed by the state to each of Florida’s public universities.
If the board of governors ap-
proves the change, the new metric should then be able to give the uni-versity a score of 10, he said. 
“I think that’s a very good 
change, so that’s apple for apple 
with other institutions,” said Mori 
Hosseini, the vice chairman of the board of trustees.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  UF pitches WebAssign 
program replacement
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Willie Young throws a sandbag into a truck at the City of Gainesville Public Works Department. 
The city provided up to 10 sandbags per car on Thursday to prepare for Hurricane Hermine.
Shelters to remain open as needed Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMHIGH  82° LOW  75°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 
2410 NW 43rd St., invites you 
to learn belly dancing in a free 
master class on Sept. 10 from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 
for more information.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit  
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
keep submissions to 150 words 
or fewer. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator  offices are located at  2700 SW 13th St . Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
 Managing Editor / Online  Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
 University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
 Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff,  costroff@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith  
 Photo Editor  Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
   
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives  Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin @alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 10
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Authorities in Florida have found 
the Zika virus in trapped mosquitoes, 
the ﬁ  rst time this has happened in the continental U.S.
Ofﬁ  cials say three mosquitoes from 
Miami Beach have tested positive for the virus. Adam Putnam, Florida’s agricultural commissioner, calls the development disappointing, but not 
surprising.
The number of non-travel-related 
Zika infections has grown to 47 in Mi-
ami-Dade County since the ﬁ  rst case was identiﬁ  ed just over a month ago, 
but mosquito controllers had not been 
able to ﬁ  nd any bugs with the virus.
The Florida Department of Agricul-
ture and Consumer Services said 95 
more trapped mosquitoes have tested negative since those three were found. Trapping and testing will continue.
“Miami Beach will continue to take 
a hardline in our ﬁ  ght against Zika,” said  Miami Beach Mayor Philip Levine in a statement. “We are ag-gressively working to eliminate any and all potential mosquito breeding grounds. We are also working closely with our partners at the state and the 
county to ensure all resources are ef-
fectively deployed.”
The Florida Department of Agri-
culture and Consumer Services said in a statement that because Zika-
positive mosquitoes were found in 
Miami Beach, Miami-Dade County’s 
Mosquito Control team will continue 
to conduct inspections to reduce mos-quito breeding and perform spray 
treatments as necessary.Miami mosquitoes 
test positive for Zika  
 By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a Florida man 
Thursday morning after they said he mastur-
bated in a bush.
At about 1 a.m. Thurs-
day, witnesses saw John 
Wesley Mosley Jr., 22, 
standing at the intersection of Northwest Sixth Avenue and Northwest 17th Street, according to a police report.
After hearing the wit-
nesses’ accounts, police be-lieved Mosley to be the same 
suspect from an Aug. 23 indecent exposure 
case in which a man was seen masturbating at 
the same intersection, according to the report.
Mosley was also driving a Chevy Malibu, 
the same make of car described by witnesses after an Aug. 26 incident that involved some-one masturbating in their car at a nearby loca-tion, according to the report.
Police followed Mosley closely as he drove 
on Northwest 13th Street and spoke to him 
after he parked the car on the south side of 
Northwest Seventh Avenue, according to the report.
He denied being at the intersection and told 
police he had been eating pizza with friends in Midtown. But after police told Mosley wit-nesses saw him at the intersection, he said he may have stopped there to “check his tires,” according to the report.
After searching Moseley, police noticed “an 
inordinate amount of napkins” on the driver’s seat and on the ﬂ  oor, along with wet spots on his sweatpants, according to the report.
Police arrested Mosley on charges of loiter-
ing or prowling. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Thursday on a $5,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org GPD: Florida man arrested 
after masturbating in bush
Mosley
IMPACT WAS THE ONL Y 
PARTY INTERVIEWING 
CANDIDATES.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The ﬁ  rst day of party inter-
views for the Fall semester’s Stu-
dent Government elections saw a 
lower turnout than last year. 
On Thursday, the ﬁ  rst day 
of qualifying and interview-
ing, 30 students registered with 
Impact Party and four students registered as independent, said UF Supervisor of Elections Eric 
Hobbs. After classes were can-
celed Friday, the second day of 
interviewing was also canceled and will not be rescheduled. Impact was the only party inter-
viewing candidates.
In Fall 2015, 50 students in-
terviewed with Impact, 13 with Access Party and one as inde-
pendent, according to Alligator archives. 
Casey Witte, who interviewed 
with Impact, said he wants to update game equipment at Rawl-ings Hall.
“I just feel someone needs to 
step up and represent a hall that has a large amount of freshman students,” the 18-year-old UF ﬁ  -nance freshman said.
Alex Waler, a 21-year-old UF 
biology senior, said she wasn’t sure how the interviewing pro-cess worked. Hobbs conﬁ  rmed she registered with Impact. 
“A lot of my sisters are in-
volved in Student Government,” said Waler, who is in Kappa Kap-pa Gamma Sorority. “The more who slate, it helps them get a chance.” 
She said members of her so-
rority running for Senate asked her to register to support them. 
“I’m not really sure that’s 
allowed, but I think it is,” she said. “I don’t really know how it works, to be honest.”
The last opportunity for stu-
dents to interview will be Tues-day from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union, Hobbs said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  
 Students begin race for Senate 
By Emma Green and
 Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Writers
As Gainesville schools and colleges 
canceled classes ahead of Hurricane Her-mine, Gainesville bars prepared for those celebrating Thursday night.
Bars, including 101 Cantina, The 
Swamp Restaurant, Salty Dog Saloon and Tall Paul’s Brew House, remained open despite Alachua County’s tropical storm warning.
By 5 p.m. Thursday, Tall Paul’s had a 
full house, said Mandy Hill, an employee.
“We know that we’re gonna be busy, 
and people are still gonna want to come out,” she said, struggling to be heard over background noise.
At 101 Cantina, employees planned 
to serve as long as there were custom-ers. While the weather was stormy, Jar-rid Bernier, a manager, said the weather wasn’t any worse than the average thun-derstorm.
Bernier said several of his friends 
planned to celebrate the ﬁ  rst hurricane to 
make landfall in Florida in more than 10 
years. By late afternoon, they had steady business. A sorority tab was still sched-
uled for the night.
“If people are going to come out and 
celebrate the hurricane, we’re gonna be 
open,” he said.
At Salty Dog Saloon, Cody Hill and 
Chris Pate, both 22, planned on staying 
late into the night for a hurricane party 
to celebrate the cancellation of UF classes.
Hill, a UF senior in the College of Agri-
cultural and Life Sciences, had stocked up 
on water and canned green beans prior, 
he said. He played pool with Pate as they 
waited out the storm.
“It’s been a long week,” Pate, a UF 
business senior, said.
costroff@alligator.org
egreen@alligator.org GNV bars see hurricane crowd   UPCOMING SG DATES:  
• Tuesday: Qualifying and 
slating from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Reitz Union third ﬂ  oor)
• Thursday: Mandatory meet-
ing for candidates at 8 p.m. (Reitz Union Senate Cham-ber)
• Sept. 14: Absentee ballot re-quests close at 5 p.m.
• Sept. 27-28: SG elections 
from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.west 21st Avenue, in a low-income 
Gainesville neighborhood, when 
someone reported them for being 
too loud.
When White arrived, he told the 
kids they had done nothing wrong and was surprised someone had complained. A few minutes later, he 
joined them in their game, throwing 
jump shots toward their basketball hoop. At one point, after the hoop 
was lowered, White threw down a 
slam dunk and promised the kids he’d be back. 
The dashboard camera on his 
cruiser ﬁ  lmed the whole exchange, a clip he sent to GPD spokesman Of-
ﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. Tobias, who man-
ages the department’s social media accounts, had only one response: 
“YES,” texted in all capital letters. 
Within a week, the video Tobias 
spliced together had more than 1 million views on GPD’s Facebook 
page — and the Basketball Cop phe-nomenon began.
“It became bigger than me, big-
ger than GPD,” White said.
As the footage circulated 
through major news outlets across the world, White hesitantly stepped into the spotlight.
But the newfound fame became 
a way for White, raised by a single, drug-addicted mother, to help at-
risk youth in Gainesville and to 
change their perception of law en-
forcement, he said.
“The opportunity literally hit 
him in the face,” Tobias said.
In the next month, retired NBA 
megastar Shaquille O’Neal came to 
town and a new court popped up in 
one of the kids’ backyards, courtesy 
of White and his following.
He can’t go anywhere without 
being recognized, White said.On Sunday, White’s second lo-
cal project was christened: an NBA-
sized court behind a local church in 
a neighborhood plagued by crime.
“This is ultimately about the 
community being able to trust the police,” Tobias said.
•   •   •Despite the fame, the extended 
hours have left White exhausted.
The calendar on his phone is dot-
ted with “work” and events related to his Basketball Cop Foundation. 
About 30 emails ﬂ  ood his inbox 
every day. A guest bedroom in his apartment has been transformed to 
accommodate his outreach, with a 
dry-erase board and map highlight-ing all of the police departments in 
the country he has sent basketballs 
and hoops to. 
“It’s nonstop,” he said, checking 
his phone for messages.
It’s harder for White to spend time with his girlfriend, fellow GPD 
Ofﬁ  cer Becki Holcomb. While it’s 
been hard not seeing him as often, Holcomb said she’s proud of what 
he’s accomplished. 
“It’s tough,” she said of the com-
mitment. “(But) if there’s a person that can handle it, it’s this guy,” 
And when White tries to ignore 
the goings-on within his one-man foundation, he can’t seem to get 
away.
“Even if I don’t want to think 
about it — ‘ping,’” White said, mo-tioning to his phone.
But thanks in part to his dedica-
tion, the foundation has raised more than $16,000 since it was estab-lished February, White said.
Tobias said White has found a 
balance between work and charity, but he isn’t sure how.
“I don’t know when he sleeps,” 
Tobias said. “I don’t know if he sleeps.”
White said if he can’t ﬁ  nd a way 
to hire someone to take over day-to-day responsibilities, he may need to 
take a break.
Since he began with the founda-
tion, he has dropped overtime shifts with GPD, a sizeable source of in-
come for many ofﬁ  cers.
“If it ever fails, it won’t be from a 
lack of effort,” White said.
•   •   •Gainesville resident Keda Ser-
mons has always been scared of po-
lice, she said.
But a few months ago, her 
3-year-old son found a role model in White after the ofﬁ  cer visited 
the family’s apartment complex for football and snacks.
“He’s more like a father ﬁ  gure 
for Duke, because his dad is not in his life,” Sermons said.
White is now listed as Da’Maryon “Duke” Hopson’s emergency con-tact at school, and he will attend a 
father-son breakfast with Duke at 
school this month.
“I’ve kind of adopted him as my 
kid,” White said.
Sermons said White made her 
change the way she looked at po-
licing.
“I just think he has a good 
heart,” she said.
And that’s why, despite the lack 
of sleep, the unpaid overtime and 
the uncertainty of stability, White 
said he will continue the foundation 
on top of his normal 11-hour-long GPD shifts for as long as he can. 
“I think in my community I’m 
making a difference,” he said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
NOW
OPEN
FREE
Delivery
3amUntil
Free Delivery Offered for UF Area• Burgers
• Panini• Pulled Pork   Sandwiches• Donuts• Homemade Cookies• Brownies• And Much More• Dine-in / Take-outGatorbaked.com
352-792-6505 • 12 SW 2nd St.
Located behind Cowboys
Hours: 3pm - 3amGrace King / Alligator Staff 
After his shift as an ofﬁ  cer ends, Bobby White begins his second job as the head of his Basketball Cop Foundation, which has helped erect two basketball courts in the city since February.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White plays basketball one-on-one against Anthony “Buckets” Blakes of the Harlem Globetrotters on Feb. 23.
COPS,  from pg. 1The Basketball Cop Foundation has raised more than $16,000 since FebruaryFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A Miami-Dade animal shelter and UF’s Col-
lege of Veterinary Medicine are working to pro-
vide a  partnership that will give students the chance to perform surgery.
Starting in Spring, students can work at the 
Miami-Dade Animal Services Pet Adoption and Protection Center to learn animal care and dis-ease outbreak as part of a course at the college, said Rowan Milner, the chairman of UF’s De-
partment of Small Animal Clinical Sciences.
Any student in the college can take the 
course, but it’ll be required for those working 
toward certiﬁ  cates in shelter medicine, Milner said. Up to four students can participate for two-week rotations at the shelter in Doral, Florida.
“This is an opportunity for UF students to be 
in what could be considered one of the coun-try’s best animal shelters,” he said, adding that the shelter’s intake of animals is one of the high-est in the U.S.
The new program is similar to an exist-
ing partnership with Alachua County Animal 
Services and the college, but the Miami-Dade 
partnership will include a surgical component, Milner said.
Rose Worobec, 24, said she heard about the 
new program while visiting shelters over sum-mer.
“I’ve always had an interest in shelter ani-
mals,” the second-year UF veterinary medical sciences master’s student said. “They deserve 
love as much as any other animal.”
Worobec, who is working toward her cer-
tiﬁ  cate in shelter medicine, said her classmates 
have talked about putting the program on their schedule.
“Everyone is interested,” she said. “There 
will be a lot of competition.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgUF, Dade animal shelter partnerTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — A massive ex-
plosion erupted at a SpaceX launch pad Thurs-day during a routine rocket test for a planned launch of a communications satellite.
There were no injuries, but the rocket and 
onboard satellite were destroyed, SpaceX said in a statement.
The mishap dealt a severe blow to SpaceX, 
which is still scrambling to catch up with satel-lite deliveries following a launch accident last year. It’s also a setback for NASA, which has been counting on the private company to keep the International Space Station stocked with supplies and, ultimately, astronauts.
SpaceX was working to conduct a test ﬁ  ring of its unmanned Falcon rocket when the blast occurred shortly after 9 a.m. at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. The test was in advance of Saturday’s planned launch of an Israeli-made communications satellite that was supposed to provide home internet for Africa and the Middle East.
SpaceX said that in preparation for Thurs-
day’s engine ﬁ  ring — a test carried out a few 
days before every launch — “there was an 
anomaly on the pad resulting in the loss of the vehicle and its payload.” No additional details were provided. It wasn’t clear whether the rocket or something else on the pad caused the problem. 
The Falcon is the same kind of SpaceX 
rocket used to launch space station supplies for NASA.
Buildings several miles away shook from 
the blast, and multiple explosions continued for several minutes. Dark smoke ﬁ  lled the overcast sky. A half-hour later, a black cloud hung low across the eastern horizon.
TV cameras showed smoke coming from 
the launch pad three hours later. The rocket was still standing, but the top third of it was 
clearly bent over.
The explosion occurred at Launch Complex 
40 at the Air Force station, right next door to 
Kennedy Space Center. Kennedy emergency staff was on standby following the explosion. At the same time, personnel were monitor-ing the air for any toxic fumes. The Air Force stressed there was no threat to public safety in the surrounding communities.
SpaceX is one of two companies ship-
ping supplies to the International Space Sta-tion for NASA. The company was leasing the launch pad from the Air Force for its Falcon       launches. 
Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., whose single 
space-shuttle ﬂ  ight ended 10 days before the Challenger disaster in 1986, said the SpaceX 
accident “reminds us all that space ﬂ  ight is an 
inherently risky business.”
“As we continue to push the frontiers of 
space, there will be both triumphs and set-backs. But at the end of the day, I’m conﬁ  dent that our commercial space industry will be very successful,” Nelson said in a statement.
Explosion rocks SpaceX launch pad in Florida during test
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
By early 2017, two Aldi supermarkets will 
open in Gainesville, giving residents a new op-tion for groceries.
One store will be located on Northwest 
13th Street near Northwest 39th Avenue, said 
Dave Rinaldo, Aldi’s Haines City division vice 
president. The other will be in Butler Plaza North.
Aldi supermarkets sell food and household 
items like appliances, bedding and silverware. 
Ninety percent of the products Aldi sells 
belong to brands exclusive to the store, ac-cording to its website.
The supermarket chain markets itself as a 
low-cost alternative to larger stores. Similar to stores in Europe, Aldi stores use a shopping-cart-rental system that requires customers to pay a quarter to rent a cart. They get the quar-ter back when they return the cart.
Unlike other supermarkets, Aldi does not 
provide plastic bags. Shoppers are encouraged 
to bring their own bags or purchase reusable 
bags at the store, according to its website.
To ﬁ  ll positions at the stores, Aldi will hold 
job fairs Tuesday and Sept. 15, according to the press release. Job fairs will run from 8 a.m. to noon and from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Those interested in applying should be 
able to lift at least 45 pounds and have some retail experience, Rinaldo said. Applicants are 
encouraged to bring identiﬁ  cation and an up-
dated resume.
Jorge Agz, 27, a former UF student, said 
he was excited about shopping at the new su-permarkets.
“It’s like a European Trader Joe’s,” he said. 
“But slightly more Ikea.”
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org  Aldi coming to GNV, hiringThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Not even two weeks into classes, and we get hit with 
Hermine, the first hurricane to hit Florida in 11 years. May-
be this is a sign we shouldn’t have come back to school to begin with? Or maybe Mother Nature is just sick of all the “Florida Man” stories and finally decided to pull the plug on our state altogether. Well, Florida, it was fun while it lasted. So as you curl up by the fireplace app on your smartphone and avoid the apocalypse going on outside today, please enjoy our roast of the week, our lighthearted musings, our stormy-day edition of…
Darts & Laurels
We at the Alligator normally do our absolute best to ignore 
any senseless “news” about the bankruptcy-prone oompa 
loompa we have running for president (R.I.P Gene Wilder), but he just did something that may mark the sign of the end of 
days: Donald Trump went to Mexico.
On Wednesday, he met and helped out at a press confer-
ence with Mexico President Enrique Peña Nieto, and the peo-
ple of Mexico finally got the chance to give us a taste of our own medicine: “When America sends its politicians, they’re 
not sending their best. They’re bringing drugs; they’re bring-
ing crime. They’re rapists. Some of them we assume are good 
people.”
Don’t worry, Mexico, we do have good politicians here; we 
just don’t let them become presidential nominees. 
Now, to be honest, we’re torn on this one. We wanted to 
give Trump a pity laurel for making the trip and not say-
ing anything too demoralizing. But then he had to screw it up during his rally in Phoenix, Arizona, just hours after the Mexico meeting by assuring his supporters Mexico will pay for his dumb wall: “They don’t know it yet, but they’re going to pay for it.” Take this dart. Get over the wall. It’s not going to 
help us. It’s a waste of time, energy and ink in this paper. 
Pink Floyd’s wall was better anyway.
In other news, Anthony Weiner. Last year, the former 
New York congressman decided the wiener in his name wasn’t enough and texted a pic of himself to an anonymous party, his crotch very, very apparent. Oh yeah, and his son’s face was in the picture, too.
Again, we’re a little torn. This story had blown up because 
Weiner’s wife, Huma Abedin, publicly stated her desire to separate from him, but it’s honestly kind of a stretch to call this a sexting scandal. And the subject of Weiner’s message was, “Someone just climbed into my bed,” likely referring to his son.
Now, if the message read, “Hey, it’s Weiner. Look at my 
wiener,” then we could call it a scandal. That being said, Wein-er should know he’s the literally the poster child of sex scan-dals in American politics — second to Bill Cosby, of course. So we give a dart to Weiner for not being more mindful of 
his wiener. Though, we will also give him a laurel for giving 
the world proof that making stupid decisions with smart-phones isn’t something exclusive to millennials. So many 
people like to give us s--- nowadays. 
Last, but not least, Hermine. We’re not looking at a “The-
Day-After-Tomorrow” situation here, but please don’t do any-
thing too stupid or reckless. Stay safe, dear readers. Stay dry. 
Don’t be afraid to use this newspaper to plug any leaks or water seepage: Just make sure you read it first. Also, when in doubt, enjoy yourself some chocolate. R.I.P. Gene Wilder. 
R.I.P. Harambe. R.I.P. Tupac. Colombia could be a case of peace in our time
Lately, Latin America has seen a lot of dra-
ma — the impeachment of Brazilian Presi-dent Dilma Rousseff, the Mexican presi-dent’s Twitter duel with Donal Trump. But thankfully, there’s some good news, 
too.
Last week, a peace accord was finally an-
nounced between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colom-bia (FARC) after nearly 52 years of armed con-flict. The final approval of the agreement will be left to the Colombian people, who will vote for or against the accord Oct. 2. The peace would mark a his-toric milestone, as the Colombian conflict is the oldest and 
only current armed conflict in the Western Hemisphere.
The deal, which has been four years in the making, 
would give de facto amnesty to FARC militants (many of 
whom are guilty of kidnapping and murder) in exchange for the relinquishing of arms to the United Nations, as well as public hearings between FARC members, victims and prosecutors. In return, FARC would also receive legitimate political representation, including 10 seats in the Colom-bian congress.
However, approval of the accord is far from certain. 
Recent polls show numbers as close as 29 percent voting “no” and 32 percent voting “yes” on the peace deal. Clear-ly, many are not pleased with the agreement, including some in the Colombian government. Former President Al-varo Uribe, for example, denounced it as a “thick mantle of impunity” for FARC militants. Others who oppose the deal fear that some of the 7,000 FARC members might reject the deal and continue to wage war either by them-
selves or by joining the lesser guerilla group, the National 
Liberation Army (ELN).
There has been a history of failed peace in Colombia. 
In 1985, FARC founded the party Unión Patriótica, a party that was intended to integrate FARC and other forces into the political process. However, many members of the UP were assassinated by paramilitary groups, and the party’s legal status was rescinded in 2002.So why on earth should we be confident 
about the current situation, you may ask?
It is important to point out that at the time 
of the agreement that led to the creation of the UP, the Colombian government was extremely 
weak, and the intensity of the civil war was 
such that the agreement could not be properly enforced.
The Colombian government today is stron-
ger, and the FARC and other paramilitary groups are far weaker. Furthermore, there have been other examples of guerrilla movements making 
peace with governments elsewhere in Latin America, such as in Argentina, Uruguay and El Salvador.
This is why I’m confident in the prospect of peace. 
There is no doubt the agreement will have serious ob-stacles. Reintegrating FARC into society, preventing vigi-lante justice against former FARC members and, above all, guaranteeing the safety of the Colombian people will not be simple tasks.
I feel the U.S. will need to serve an important role not 
only in funding education and integration programs, but also in assisting the democratic transition that may occur 
as a result of the peace deal.
The conflict in Colombia has been long and painful. At 
least 220,000 have been killed and millions displaced since 
it began in 1964, and Colombian society is still plagued by grudges and memories of murdered loved ones.
If we want to see an end to violence in Colombia, how-
ever, the Colombian people will have to move on from this bloody chapter and vote in support of the peace accord. Likewise, if citizens approve the deal — and if the vot-
ing process goes smoothly — the Colombian government 
needs to ensure it has the upper hand to restore order if FARC decides to violate the agreements. Ultimately, this comes down to whether the good people of Colombia are willing to give peace a chance. Let’s hope they are. The world could really use some good news right now.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science and telecom-
munication senior. His column appears on Fridays.
Julian  
Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
A week ago, it hadn’t occurred to me 
it would be a disadvantage for men to support the feminist agenda, but 
when I started to thinking about it, 
I couldn’t get over it.
If equality truly existed among genders, 
races and oppressed groups, men — par-
ticularly those empowered and most likely 
to affect change — would have the most to lose. With equality granted to women of all races and at all levels of income, what do men stand to lose?
Well, let’s say you’re a man and you go 
into a job interview. Studies show you, as a man, have a better chance of being hired for a management position, even within 
academic science fields. Men are perceived 
to be more competent, more qualified and better mentors in the workplace than are women — which isn’t a surprise. It’s ad-vantages like these that show what men 
have to lose with full gender equality. 
If you found out you were chosen for a job because of your gender, 
would you give that job up for the sake of feminism?
If not, you’re not on the fast 
track to equality for women or minority groups. A 2003 study by the National Bureau of Economic 
Research entitled “Are Emily 
and Greg More Employable than Lakisha and Jamal?” found appli-cants with “white” names were more likely to get calls back for 
jobs than those with “black” names.
Men are also more likely to get promot-
ed earlier and are more likely to get higher 
pay when they receive raises.
This is all made easier by the fact that 
management roles have traditionally been held by men and are therefore more geared toward men and the qualities men stereo-typically have, according to the report “In-
visible Privilege What White Men Don’t 
See.” The role of manager has also been traditionally held by white peo-ple, which puts minorities at a disadvantage.
The report also listed 24 ad-
vantages of being a white man, which included, “If I get a posi-tion, people are not likely to as-
sume that I ‘only’ got it on ac-
count of my race (or gender),” “I will not be asked to represent the ‘white’ or ‘male’ viewpoint on matters under discussion” and “I 
am unlikely to be referred to (either to my face, or privately) as ‘the white manager’ or the ‘man manager’ in our division.”
With equality, the traditional structure 
of management roles and decision-making might need to be lifted to allow for attri-butes that are common between men and women. A man who grew up in the ste-reotypical gender role would have to adapt 
his style of management (just like women 
have to do in the workplace now) to fit a more universal management system.
Home life would also have to be restruc-
tured. Yes, we know you don’t want to do 
dishes or make the bed, and neither do we 
sometimes, so you can’t just use our gen-der as an excuse for why we have to do the stay-at-home work.
To truly be a proponent of equality, one 
must believe in dismantling the system and constructs that have shaped our society and current positions of power.
While we may have a woman elected 
president and men have joined women in women’s studies classes, it isn’t until men step down and see women as their equals in all areas of life that true change will take 
place. You may see equality as women ris-
ing to be equals with men, but men must also take a step down to become equals with women.
Nicole Wiesenthal is a UF journalism 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.
Can men cheering from the sidelines really be considered feminists?Column
Before I started college, a lot of old-er people — parents, high school teachers, coaches, relatives, etc. 
— gave me advice. Make sure you 
go to class, get enough sleep, avoid 
drunk hookups, do your laundry, don’t procrastinate and, most importantly, be 
picky about whom you spend time with. 
Your friends in college matter, and they’ll likely end up being the most important and best friends you ever make.
From what I’ve seen, people seem to 
end up closer with their college buds than with friends from other phases of their lives. Sure, your high-school crowd will always hold a special place in your heart, 
along with your awkward adolescence. 
But those times revolved around stricter 
rules and curfews, more parental supervi-
sion, less self-discovery and, let’s face it, probably fewer embarrassing adventures 
involving alcohol.
The friends you make in college are the ones who get to stand by your 
side while you break away from childhood and push into adult-
hood. 
You know, that awkward time 
in your life when your parents 
aren’t around to make sure your 
dentist appointments are sched-
uled, but you really need to get that cavity filled because your diet consists of breakfast cereals and cheap beer. 
Your college friends understand what 
it’s like to be afraid to talk to your dentist’s secretary over the phone because you have no idea how your insurance works. They’ll 
help you through it. 
There’s something special about being 
together through the disorganized times 
before you get your act together (if you ever do). Enjoy it and grow together.
When you go through this hideously 
confusing, messy, laughable and formative period of your life, your college friends become your family. For a lot of people, college is the time 
during which they’re living on 
their own but haven’t settled into a new family life with a spouse and a cat. You know what that 
means: roommates.
Your friends in college, just 
like your family, see you through 
everything – the good, the bad and the 
ugly. They’re the ones to whom you spill 
weird details about your visit to the gyne-
cologist. They’re there the first time you get buzzed and try to hit on someone way out of your league only to end up kissing 
the weird kid in the corner who smells like 
Taco Bell and prematurely sports a comb-over. 
They buy your favorite ice cream when 
they go to the store. They interrogate your 
dates. They never hesitate to help you un-
clog your shower drain when it’s the last thing you can think of doing to put off studying for finals.
They’re the ones you cry with while 
you’re stressing over tests and the ones who are there to celebrate the minute you walk out of your last class of the semester. You become family, and there’s nothing 
you wouldn’t do for each other.
College is a difficult yet beautiful expe-
rience. When your family and childhood 
friends are far away, even out of state, your new friends matter more than ever. 
You see each other through some of the 
hardest times you’ll face and support each other’s wild and daring ideas. 
You laugh, cry, sing and fart together, 
and through it all you develop a bond unique to your college experience and young adulthood. It’s one that will last a lifetime.
A version of this column by Emma 
Tanner originally ran in The Daily Utah Chronicle
The laughs, the drinks, the tears: Don't underestimate college friendshipsUWire
Emma T anner
UWireNicole  
Wisenthal
opinions@alligator.orgAve., are open to the public for 
those concerned about ﬂ  ooding, those living in a mobile home and those who are homeless. 
The Senior Recreation Center 
a special-needs shelter located at 5701 NW 34th Blvd., will have cots, nurses and medical equip-ment.“We tell people to hope for the 
best but prepare for the worst,” Sexton said. “Folks need to just remember that they live in Florida, and these storms come through.”
At Dignity Village, a tent city 
near Grace Marketplace, people were reluctant to leave. 
Peter Dannenhoffer and his 
tent-mate, Vietnam veteran Mick Burnette, planned to ﬂ  atten down their tent, throw ropes on top and secure it with sandbags. They said they’re hoping for the best.
Having lived at Dignity Village 
for about a year, they don’t want to leave their belongings behind. But Dannenhoffer worries about what will happen to the village if winds reach 35 mph.
“It’ll be torn to pieces,” Dan-
nenhoffer said. 
At Grace Marketplace, the staff 
prepared for the worst.Jon DeCarmine, the operations 
director, said they have about 200 beds ready at the shelter.
Grace Marketplace is usually 
open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., but gates will stay open during the storm. DeCarmine said he expects people to come when bad weather hits, and the staff will be ready.
“There’s no point at which they 
can’t come in,” he said.
During a press conference Thursday, emergency management coordinator David McIntire said residents should secure outside de-bris to prevent more damage. 
By Thursday afternoon, city 
employees had handed out more than 3,200 sandbags, just one way Gainesville helped people prepare.
“All departments are working 
together to provide a rapid response to the storm,” he said. “This is not a storm we are taking lightly.”  8   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
STORM,  from pg. 1Forecasters predict up to 6 inches of rain, wind gusts up to 60 mph
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Mick Burnette, a Vietnam War veteran, smokes a cigarette before the rain begins to fall at Dignity Village on Thursday afternoon. Dignity Village is an open area where homeless people can set up tents in safety.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
More than a dozen students wait at the Century T ower bus stop on Thursday afternoon. UF announced campus would be closed from 4 p.m. Thursday until Saturday morning as a result of Hurricane Hermine. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR  9
National Hurricane Center
• 1 gallon of water per person per 
day for at least three days
• At least a three-day supply 
 of nonperishable food
• First-aid kit
• Flashlight and extra batteries
• Manual can opener and utensils
Source: National Hurricane CenterEMERGENCY SUPPLIES 
that you should have on handFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
1BR in 4BR/4BA furn apt. Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Male student pref. Short term lease option avail. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigish-anyc@yahoo.com   9-2-16-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-23 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/
BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
9-3-16-29-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified9 Bicycles 1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 12 AutosFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     9-2-1-12
DONATE YOUR CAR
FOR BREAST  CANCER!
Help United Breast Foundation’s
Education, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST  FREE PICKUP  - 24 HR RESPONSE  
TAX DEDUCTION1-866-594-4556        9-2-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Books in which
each sheet of
paper is foldedinto eight leaves
8 Factions
13 See 2-Down16 Not likely to miss
much
17 Politically active
fowl?
18 Eyelashes19 “A Chorus Line”
number
20 Goddess with a
throne headdress
22 Become clear23 Flair26 Easily bent28 Clever insect?32 Comfortable with33 Dresden’s river34 Takes in37 Big hit38 Subside, with
“down”
39 Doozy41 Loan fig.42 “The Little
Mermaid” prince
44 The kiwi is the
smallest one
45 Embarrassed
avian?
47 Fake it, in a way50 Pageant
accessory
51 Sandy’s home52 Puts in place54 Achievement of
many a CEO
57 Get rid of59 Street-wise
amphibian?
63 Birch of “American
Beauty”
64 Require help65 Slender woman66 Oxford don
associated withslips similar to17-, 28-, 45-, and
59-Across
DOWN
1 Anne Frank’s
father
2 With 13-Across,
Mexican
restaurant choices3 Loyal
4 20s dispenser5 Bigwig6 Dated
7 Swinging about
8 __ fly: productive
MLB out
9 Hebrew prophet
10 Star11 Operatic vocal
effect
12 Dated14 Coolers, briefly15 Balancing aid on
the slopes
21 Piece at the
butcher shop
23 Goals24 In a supple
manner
25 Mayo is in it27 Swell
applications
28 Edge29 Letters at N.C.’s
Camp Lejeune
30 Drink order31 Clinton’s first
Labor secretary
34 Locks often gray35 Aries or Taurus
36 Brood38 Make out
40 Make an
impression
43 Hose problems
44 Stranded
messenger
45 C equivalent
46 Time units47 Hungers (for)48 Raring to go49 Given orally, as
evidence53 Golf club part54 Complain
55 Thorn in one’s
side
56 Dely. destination58 Half a tuba
sound
60 Econ. yardstick
61 One-tenth of a
Vietnamesedong, formerly
62 E’en if
By Mark Feldman©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/02/1609/02/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 2, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos Live Longer.
Drive Sober.13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
PT home/office/apartment cleaner needed asap m-sat 8a-5p, &wed 8a-10p. weekly pay, 8.50/hr(making roughly $200-280weekly); must drive own car; be able to pass drug/background check. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-2-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatestDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
Monopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
Gator Tales Sports Bar & Grill
Hiring Bartenders & Servers. Apply at 5112 
NW 34th Blvd, across from the YMCA.     9-2-
7-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time 
Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14Teach English in Japan with NOVA! We are seeking enthusiastic and profes-sional individuals to join our teaching team in Japan!  For more information visit: http://www.nova.co.jp/hd/teachinjapan/    9-9-16-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYUniversity of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics 
Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. 
Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on 
data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the 
patient care, research and education mis-
sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods 
to answer questions and test hypotheses 
as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work 
on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM 888-242- 2649     9-2-1-14
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!
Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion! 855-479-7963      9-2-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?
Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates  1-877-330-3429     9-2-
1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305      9-2-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?
You and Your Family May be entitled
to significant CASH AWARD.
Call 1-855-389-3099       9-2-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?
Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help Line
For a free assessment, 1-855-995-3142     
9-2-1-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida tennis duo falters at U.S. Open
Florida women's tennis players Kourtney Keegan and Brooke Austin were 
eliminated from the U.S. Open after dropping their ﬁ  rst round doubles match to the United States' Aska Muhammad and T aylor T ownsend on Thursday.Alex Holston and the Florida 
volleyball team faces Central Michigan tonight. Read the story online at alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
You’d think ﬁ  nding a way to 
involve ﬁ  ve running backs in a game and satisfy each of their carry counts would stress out a coach.
Maybe even cause headaches.But that’s not how UF running 
backs coach Tim Skipper sees it.
“Never a headache to have 
talented guys,” he said. “That’s what you want.”
Florida lists ﬁ  ve running backs 
on its depth chart — Jordan 
Scarlett, Jordan Cronkrite, Mark 
Thompson, Lamical Perine and 
Mark Herndon — all of whom will play in the team’s season opener against Massachusetts on 
Saturday, according to Skipper.
But the bulk of the carries will 
fall to the hot hand.
“Somebody gets hot, they’re 
going to be in there,” Skipper said. “You start breaking off some 
runs. … Like I tell the guys, you 
get an opportunity, you make the most of it. If you do, you’re going to get more. If not, then the next guy is up.”
The ﬁ  rst guy up is likely to be 
Jordan Scarlett, Jordan Cronkrite or Mark Thompson.
Skipper and other coaches 
have raved about each of their abilities in practice, but they know uncertainty still surrounds each of them.
For one, none of them have 
played a full game as a Gator.
Scarlett and Cronkrite, both 
sophomores, each didn’t eclipse 50 carries or 200 rushing yards last season. Thompson, a red-shirt junior, rushed for more than 1,000 yards at Dodge City Com-munity College in Kansas but hasn’t seen a snap in The Swamp.
“How are you going to do 
when you get in the game atmo-sphere with all those people in that stadium?” Skipper said. “Are you going to be the same guy as you are in practice? Or are you going to shy away a little bit? Or are you going to rise to the occa-sion? All those things are factored into it.”
The focus may be on game-
play, but it doesn’t mean offsea-son and spring work is discarded.
Scarlett added about 10 
pounds of muscle and under-stands the offense a little bit more now, Skipper said.
Cronkrite was back practicing Florida to use ﬁ  ve-player rotation at RB 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jordan Scarlett participates in running back drills during a practice at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15Jim McElwain begins his second year as the Gators head coach on Saturday night, and the ball coach from Montana is looking for an-other chance to make UF football 
great again.
But more importantly, this means 
the return of the alligatorSports picks 
column. Every week, we’ll be here to pick eight games against the spread, 
share some laughs and hopefully leave 
you inspired.
Or not.Either way, enjoy.This week, assistant sports editor 
Ethan Bauer and online sports editor Patrick Pinak kick things off by debat-ing tonight’s Rocky Mountain Show-down — 8:05 on ESPN — between 
Colorado and Colorado State. 
Colorado State (+8.5) will win be-
cause…
The Rams are coming off a 27-24 
overtime loss to their Rocky Mountain 
rivals, and second-year head coach Mike Bobo is looking for revenge. 
Bobo, who replaced Florida coach 
Jim McElwain, is a former offensive co-ordinator at Georgia with a fair amount of prestige. He already led CSU to a 7-5 regular season record and a bowl ap-pearance in 2015, so this season the goal is to improve on that. 
And what better way to improve 
than by beating your team’s biggest ri-
val in the season opener at Mile High 
in Denver? 
Even without departed receiver 
Rashard Higgins, the Rams’ offense should be good enough to meet the 8.5-point spread and, with a few clutch plays and lucky bounces, good enough to win. 
-Ethan Bauer
Colorado (-8.5) will win because…
Last year’s matchup between these 
two teams featured a back-and-forth 
ending that concluded with a game-winning ﬁ  eld goal to seal Colorado’s 27-24 overtime victory. 
But don’t expect this year’s Rocky 
Mountain Showdown to be as close. PICKS
SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 7:30 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network/Gators 
IMG Sports
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
FEARSOME MCPHERSON / OPINION
Steve Spurrier put Florida 
football on the map.
As a player, he was a 
two-time All-American 
quarterback and the 
school’s ﬁ  rst Heisman Trophy 
winner.
As a coach, he led the Gators 
to six Southeastern Conference titles and the program’s ﬁ  rst national title in 1996.
Without him, The Swamp 
would not have become The 
Swamp.
And on Saturday night, The 
Swamp will be his again when 
the 25th-ranked Gators run out 
of the tunnel onto Steve Spurrier Field at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n 
Stadium.
Spurrier himself will 
serve as the honorary Mr. Two Bits, hyping the 90,000 fans who ﬁ  ll the stadium just three hours 
after he wraps up a book 
signing on campus.
“That’s something 
special and obviously for him, I think, what 
a ﬁ  tting tribute,” coach Jim 
McElwain said. 
“And to have him back and 
be a part of that is something 
that’s pretty neat.”
And with Spurrier back in Gainesville,  
Florida’s  offense has no 
choice but to 
step up.
That seems 
to be easier said 
than done as of 
late. 
Over the last 
ﬁ  ve years, the Gators have 
ﬁ  nished no better than 96th in total offense.
McElwain seemed to have the 
problem solved early last year, 
with Florida storming to a 6-0 
record before quarterback Will Grier was slapped with a year-long suspension for violating the NCAA’s performance-enhancing 
drug policy.
It went downhill from there.
UF went 4-4 to close out 
the year under Treon Harris 
and scored just two offensive 
touchdowns in the ﬁ  nal three games — losses to Florida State, Alabama and Michigan.
“I’m still hurting,” McElwain 
said.
 “That’s all I can say. That 
was miserable.”
Saturday marks the chance 
to start anew, and the pieces are  With Spurrier back, UF needs to make statement
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126at full pace this week after suffer-
ing an undisclosed injury in an Aug. 19 scrimmage.
Thompson leaned out a little 
bit and is in better condition than 
when he ﬁ  rst arrived on campus, 
Skipper noted.
Even Perine, the freshman, has 
made strides.
“Most of the time freshmen in 
training camp, they hit that wall,” 
Skipper said. “He never really hit 
that wall. He got stronger as he kept going. So I’m really excited about the things he did.”
What really tells you how 
much conﬁ  dence coaches have in these running backs is their goal-line plan.
It might be easy to assume the 
6-foot-2, 237-pound Thompson — 
the most physically imposing of 
the bunch — would be the back of choice in short yardage situa-tions.
But Skipper shot that notion 
down.
“Nah, I wouldn’t necessarily 
say that,” he said. “The best guy is the goal line option.”
Guess we’ll have to wait and 
see who that is.
 @pinakk12 
ppinak@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.Buffaloes quarterback Sefo Liu-
fau is back for his senior year after 
breaking a bone in his foot. Liufau’s return is signiﬁ  cant because CU’s passing game was down last year 
— it managed just 13 touchdowns 
and 12 interceptions. 
Colorado’s offense, which didn’t 
lose much in the offseason on all fronts, should thrive and beat the 8.5-spread against a Colorado State team that lost its top three receivers to the NFL. 
-Patrick Pinak
Now, onto the picks!
Coming in ﬁ  rst for the ﬁ  rst time 
is alligatorSports editor Ian “Do I have to talk?” Cohen, who lives in a permanent cloud of darkness, especially since Dwyane Wade left the Miami Heat for Chicago. We’re honestly kind of surprised he stuck around for another semes-
ter as editor, considering the posi-
tion involves remembering people’s names and generally being a pleas-ant person. We know life is hard, especially without Wade, but try to smile at least once at the rest of us, OK?
Coming in second is alligatorS-
ports assistant editor Ethan “There’s 
a dress code, right?” Bauer, who 
doesn’t go anywhere without wear-ing a button down shirt and a tie. Hey Ethan, we know you think you’re better than all of us, but how about you skip the pants next time you’re in the baseball press box for a noon game? The pit stains on your shirts will thank you.
Next up is staff writer Jordan “I 
only own ﬂ  annel shirts” McPher-son, who hasn’t bought a new shirt since he ﬁ  nished puberty in 2010. Nice short-sleeved ﬂ  annel, Jordan. Too bad we live in Florida and it 
reaches 90 degrees by 11:30 a.m., or 
your shirt selection would’ve been a really smart move.
Rounding out the alligatorS-
ports group is online editor Patrick “I played baseball in high school” Pinak. We get it, Patrick, you’re a jock. Now, please stop telling us the story about how you would’ve hit a home run on your 10th grade JV team if it wasn’t for a last-second gust of wind that got in your eyes as 
the pitcher began to throw. We all 
totally believe you.
Coming in ﬁ  fth is the Orlando 
Sentinel’s Edgar “Oh yeah, it’s on motherf****rs!!!!” Thompson, who used that same phrase to express his excitement at the return of the picks column for the 2016 season. We get it Edgar, you’re excited, al-
though we don’t know why. Your 
performance in the alligatorSports picks column usually resembles your golf game: A strong start after the ﬁ  rst few rounds, but you crash and burn halfway through.
Next is the Gainesville Sun’s Gra-
ham “Bad life choices” Hall, who, despite (ﬁ  nally) being a graduate, 
still insists on dressing like an aban-
doned frat boy. We hate to break it to you Graham, but you’re a real adult. You should probably try to look like you know what you’re do-ing. Also, let’s try to make it through a football season without you giving birth to 20 kidney stones. Is that too much to ask?
Back for a third stint in the picks 
column is Gator Country’s Nick “I’m like 30 but have gray hair” De La Torre, who should’ve started us-ing Just For Men hair products, like, 7 years ago. Hey Nick, no amount of bench presses at the gym are going to turn your hair back to its original color. 
And last but (probably) not least 
is 247sports’ Thomas “I suck at this, but sure” Goldkamp, who gladly decided to come back to the picks column this year even though he has no idea what the hell he’s do-ing when he turns his picks in every week. It’s OK, Goldkamp, you can drown your last-place sorrows in 
cheap beer and ﬁ  lm study on Sun-
days. 
See our picks online at Alligator.
org/sports
PICKS,  from pg14
FOOTBALL,  from pg14At 6-foot-2, 237 pounds, Thompson 
is Florida's biggest running back
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida running back Mark Thompson (24) is tackled by linebacker 
David Reese (33) during UF's Orange and Blue Debut on April 8.
there.
He has a traditional dropback 
passer in Luke Del Rio, a 
competent offensive line and 
dynamic wide receivers.
“We’ve just gotta play fast,” 
receiver Brandon Powell said. 
“That’s really it. When we play fast, it’s hard to stop us.”
During the 12 years with 
Spurrier at the helm, the Gators never ﬁ  nished with less than nine wins or below second in the SEC East.
He brought excitement to UF 
football with the revolutionary Fun ‘n’ Gun offense. 
He also coached some of 
the top quarterbacks to play at UF in Danny Wuerffel and Rex Grossman along with a litany of other talent such as tailbacks Fred Taylor and Errict Rhett and 
receivers Ike Hilliard and Reidel 
Anthony.
Florida is by no means at the point where it’s going to be pouring on 50 points every game 
this season.
But with the return of Steve 
Spurrier, the one who started 
it all in Gainesville, McElwain 
needs to make a statement on 
Saturday.
Jordan McPherson is a sports 
writer. Contact him at jmcpher-
son@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @J_McPher-
son1126.  COLUMN,  from pg14Spurrier coached Heisman-winner Wuerfel16   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
Licensed No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients with coupon
ABOUT THE OPPONENT
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When Ross Comis entered the 
huddle, the game was already 
over. 
He was responsible for mop-
up duty with his UMass Minute-men down 62-20 against Notre Dame in South Bend. 
There were only about eight 
minutes left, but that wasn’t go-ing to deter him. 
On his first pass attempt of 
the game, a dart to running back Lorenzo Woodley gave the Min-
utemen 9 yards. 
From there, Comis picked 
apart the Fighting Irish de-
fense, completing 8-of-8 passes and capping off the drive with a touchdown pass in the shad-ow of Touchdown Jesus, a gi-ant mural behind the stadium’s stands. 
Playing in front of the 80,795 
fans at Notre Dame Stadium was, at the time, the biggest crowd Comis had ever played for. 
That’ll change on Saturday. “It was a dream as a child to 
play in The Swamp,” he said, 
“so you see the schedule and 
Florida’s your first game, you 
circle that.”
But Florida and its 90,000 
fans present a daunting chal-
lenge for UMass, with the Gators 
entering as 36.5-point favorites. 
While the Gators are coming 
off a season in which they made 
the SEC Championship game, the Minutemen are coming off a 3-9 campaign that included wins over Florida International, East-ern Michigan and Buffalo. 
Nevertheless, Comis isn’t 
afraid. After all, Georgia South-ern came to Gainesville in 2013 and left with a massive paycheck and a win. So why not UMass?
“We’re going into this game 
prepared to win,” Comis said. 
“I don’t think anyone should 
go into a game thinking they’re underdogs and the (other) team 
is better. We’re ready to come in and we think we can win this game.”
His team-
mate, lineback-er Shane Huber, 
agrees. 
“We’re gon-
na be facing 
some really tal-ented players,” he said. “But 
as long as we’re executing our fundamentals and assignments, we’re gonna be all right.”
UMass head coach Mark 
Whipple was also confident, but incessantly praised Florida’s tal-ent at just about every position. 
He was especially high on 
sophomore wide receiver Anto-nio Callaway. 
“Callaway scares you,” he 
said. “We don’t have the guys 
Alabama has, and he runs 
through those guys like sliced 
cheese.”
But despite his praise for 
Florida, Whipple said that his 
team is confident and ready to 
compete. 
He added that playing Florida 
first has actually been a great motivational tool. 
When his players slack off in 
practice, he said he can remind them that if they do that against UF, they’ll get embarrassed. 
“I think there’s some advan-
tages that way,” he said. 
He also praised Comis, citing 
the quarterback’s experience against Notre Dame as well as against Colorado as reasons he can perform well in The Swamp. 
“He’s played well,” Whipple 
said. “He’s been in the system with us for three years now, and we’re excited to see him play.”
Comis has performed when 
embedded in a hostile crowd and against a talented defense. 
His 8-for-8 passing might 
have been against Notre Dame’s backups, but it was still impres-
sive considering the high-caliber 
recruits the Fighting Irish bring 
in regularly. 
Now, he’s ready for a new 
challenge. 
And this time, rather than 
mopping up, he’ll take the first 
snap. 
“We’re prepared for them to 
bring their A-game,” he said, “and we’re gonna try to do the same.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org UMass players 
 confident despite 
being overmatched
“W e’re going into this game 
prepared to win. I don’t think 
anyone should go into a game 
thinking they’re underdogs 
and the (other) team is better. 
W e’re ready to come in and 
we think we can win this 
game.”
Ross Comis
UMass QuarterbackComis
INSIDE
In its second year under coach Jim McElwain, Florida and its players have hopes of winning 
a national championship. 
ONLINE
For updates from Saturday’s season opener against Massachusetts, visit alligator.org/sports and follow us on Twitter @alligatorSports.
After reaching the SEC title 
game in his first year, Jim McElwain aims to bring Florida back into the national spotlightBACK TO WORKKICK OFF
Editor: Ian Cohen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, September 2, 2016
FLORIDA defense vs. UMass offense
Fabian 
HoellerCRoss 
ComisQBMarquis YoungRB
Bryan 
Cox Jr.DE
Duke 
DawsonCB
Quincy
WilsonCB
Joey
IvieNT
Caleb
BrantleyDT
Daniel
McMillianSAM
Jarrad
DavisMIKE
Alex
AnzaloneWILL
Nick Washington 
or Marcell HarrisS
Marcus 
MayeSJake
LargayLG
Elijah
WilkinsonLT Shakur
NesmithWR
Michael
BolandRG
Jack
DriscollRTJohn Robinson-
WoodgettFB
Bernard
DavisWRFLORIDA offense vs. UMASS defense
Cam DillardC
Luke Del RioQB
Jordan Scarlett, Jordan 
Cronkrite or Mark ThompsonRBDavid
SharpeLTMartez 
IveyLG
Tyler
JordanRG
Fred
JohnsonRT
DeAndre
GoolsbyTEShane
HuberMIKE
Peter
AngehDT
Ali
Ali-MusaNT
Sha-Ki
HolinesDE
James
AllenCBDa’Sean
DowneyWILL
T edrick 
LowerySAMLee 
MosesS
Khary
Bailey-SmithS
Antonio
CallawayWR
Dre
MasseyWRBrandon
PowellWREnock 
AsanteDE
Jackson
PorterCB
Jordan
SheritDEAdam
BrenemanTEINJURY
REPORT
OUT
WR Tyrie Cleveland (suspended)
DB Quincy Lenton (foot)TE C’yontai Lewis (suspended)OL Antonio Riles (ACL)DB Jalen T abor (suspended)WR Rick Wells (suspended)WR C.J. Worton (ankle)
DOUBTFUL
WR Kalif Jackson (foot)
QUESTIONABLE
DL Khairi Clark (ankle)By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Before there was anything, it was an 
empty stretch of land.
Fans passed it on their way to baseball 
games at McKethan Stadium, past the foot-
ball practice fields that flowed into a wide expanse of grass.
Now, there’s a building. 
Florida’s indoor practice facility is a 
mammoth of a complex, with ceilings 60 
feet high and two yellow goal posts hanging on either end. 
On an early morning in March, it hosts 
UF’s annual Pro Day for the first time in the program’s history.
Jim McElwain watches from the 25-yard 
line. 
Today is huge, he says. It isn’t Florida’s 
season opener, and it isn’t the Southeastern Conference Championship. And yet, he ad-mits, it’s one of the most important days of the year.
Scouts from the NFL stand behind him, 
scribbling notes on clipboards as they watch 18 Florida athletes run, jog, jump, catch and throw for a chance to make a professional 
team.
“Having this facility is great,” McElwain 
says with a smile.
 “You know, a lot of really good players 
come to the University of Florida.”
Six months removed from Florida’s Pro 
Day, McElwain enters his second year as 
coach of Florida, and the $15 million facility still looks new. 
It stands as a monument to Florida’s 
football team, designed to flirt with high school recruits and provide a sanctuary to UF’s players on days when the Florida sun beats too menacingly on the practice fields 
outside.
But, in many ways, UF’s indoor practice 
facility is also a symbol. 
The structure’s construction was finished 
in September 2015, coinciding with the re-
emergence of Florida’s football program un-der McElwain.
Florida finished that season 10-4, its most 
wins since 2012.
This year, McElwain expects Florida to be 
better. After all, the coach has everything he needs to succeed.
He has a defense, expected to be one of 
the best in the country. 
He has a running back group, one of the 
most impressive he said he has ever been around. 
And, finally, he has what he thinks is a 
reliable quarterback after a year of uncer-tainty at the position.
Even so, McElwain can’t relax.“No,” McElwain says, his head shaking. 
“You never feel comfortable. The day you feel comfortable is probably the day I’m fishing for a living.” 
•   •   •
McElwain has the number memorized — 
$4,723. 
That was his salary while juggling work 
as a clerk at JC Penney and bartending in his early 20s. 
Now, he makes $4.25 million per year 
following a raise last March. 
But he doesn’t seem to care that it’s 
nearly a 1,000 percent increase from his first paycheck.“I’m not real good at math,” he said.He is good at his job, though — one that 
saw him start off as a graduate assistant on Eastern Washington’s football team in 1985. 
After several years coaching at various 
colleges, including a four-year stint as offen-
sive coordinator at Alabama, he was hired 
as head coach of Colorado State in 2012.
Then, in 2014, Florida Athletics Direc-
tor Jeremy Foley showed up at McElwain’s home, looking for someone to bring national 
attention to a program that has desperately 
lacked it since Tim Tebow left in 2009.
“There’s times I just walk out to prac-
tice,” McElwain said, “and it’s hard for me 
to sometimes imagine I’m at the University 
of Florida.”
His first year was a resounding success — 
Florida advanced to the SEC Championship before losing to Alabama.
McElwain coached his team to the post-
season despite an offensive line that was the worst in the country in 2015 — it allowed 45 sacks, more than every Football Bowl Subdi-
vision school in America.
And its quarterback play was inconsis-
tent at best. 
Former quarterback Will Grier fit well 
in the offense until he was suspended for taking performance enhancing drugs after 
Week 6, later transferring from the school in December.
Treon Harris took over and was undeni-
ably worse. 
He finished the season with nine touch-
downs and six interceptions, completing just 50.6 percent of his passes, not even good enough to rank in the top 100 passers 
in the nation. 
Harris transferred over the summer.
But Florida’s defense was its saving 
grace.
It was the No. 11 scoring defense in the 
country, allowing just 18.3 points per game.
And running back Kelvin Taylor was 
solid, becoming just UF’s second 1,000-yard rusher in the last 11 seasons.
This year, things are different.McElwain thinks his offensive line is bet-
ter, a quality he said comes with experience. 
He’s confident in UF’s running game, 
where four to five competent backs are pre-pared to carry the ball. 
And the coach thinks he has found an 
answer at quarterback for a school that suf-fered so many years with question marks at 
the position. 
The Gators have had seven different 
quarterbacks transfer from the school since 
2010.
But, even so, they won 10 games last 
year.
How much improvement can they realis-
tically see?
“I would challenge us to be dramatically 
better,” McElwain said.
And yet, since Spring practice started 
in early March, distractions have muddled McElwain’s blueprint for his second year. 
Harris and star receiver Antonio Cal-
laway were accused of sexually assaulting a woman in December, although Callaway was found not responsible in a university-sanctioned Title IX hearing in August. 
Freshmen receivers Tyrie Cleveland and 
Rick Wells were arrested on charges of criminal mischief and firing a missile into a dwelling after they shot BB guns at a UF 
residence hall in July. 
Standout cornerback Jalen Tabor and 
tight end C’yontai Lewis were suspended 
for the season opener against Massachusetts after the two reportedly fought during a pre-season practice.
Somehow, McElwain turns all of that into 
a positive.
“One of the things I enjoy is the chaos,” 
the coach said. 
 “You can’t simulate the chaos that goes 
on in a game. And yet, you can use distrac-
tions — uncertainty — and use that to help 
strengthen you in those times when you’re in those games.”
McElwain is impressed with how his 
players have dealt with some of the distrac-
tions during the offseason, especially the 
veterans, a group McElwain said is more in-vested in this year’s team than last.
During a late August practice, McElwain 
removed the upperclassmen from an infor-mal scrimmage, but kept the youngest play-ers in the game.
As play resumed, McElwain heard shout-
ing and clapping from the sidelines. 
He thought it was the veterans fooling 
around, as they sometimes did last season.
But as he turned, McElwain saw UF’s old-
er players coaching the younger ones from 
the side. 
“It might not seem like much,” McElwain 
said, “but to me that shows these guys are 
really into this team.”
They are. And, in his second year, they’ve 
all bought into McElwain.
“He’s a heckuva coach,” running back 
Mark Thompson said. 
“He told me a lot of real things. Things 
outside of football. Obviously, after football you have to lead a regular life. Football will be done with you before you’re done with football.”
Sophomore defensive lineman CeCe Jef-
ferson agrees.
“I was sold from the time the man walked in my house,” Jefferson said.
 “The way he carries himself, I knew he 
was a good dude.”
McElwain constantly preaches that his 
main job is to teach lessons in life, not in football.
 He tries to instill in his players the no-
tions of right and wrong, choices and con-sequences, and to teach them that football will inevitably end before they’re ready for it to end.
And yet, while all those things may be 
true, McElwain knows he isn’t being paid to teach life lessons.
His job is to win games.And he thinks he has the players to do it.
“I think every player on our team — to a 
man — has such love and belief for coach 
McElwain,” defensive coordinator Geoff Collins said. 
“The buy-in factor is at an all-time high.”
•   •   •
McElwain likes this year’s team. He says 
it repeatedly. 
But he also said, as Florida began its first 
practice of preseason camp in early August, “everybody in the country right now feels pretty good about themselves. Everybody’s undefeated.”
But McElwain has high expectations, ex-
pectations that trickle down to every mem-ber of the team, from starting quarterback Luke Del Rio to defensive back Marcell Har-ris.
But where do those expectations land?“Honestly, win a national champion-
ship,” Harris said. “That’s the main goal, that’s the main 
focus.” 
That’s McElwain’s goal, too. Even though it’s only his second year, 
Florida’s goal is to reach the College Foot-ball Playoff. 
But, as McElwain said after another string 
of preseason practices, only time will tell. 
“There’s some really good leadership on 
this football team right now,” he said. 
“And we’ll see where that takes us.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgCHAMPIONSHIP ASPIRATIONS
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain smiles during a preseason practice at Donald R. Dizney Stadium on Aug. 24. In his second-year as head 
coach, McElwain hopes to build on the success of last year’s 10-4 record and SEC Championship appearance. In his second year, players are 
buying into McElwain’s plan