We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 105 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
Florida softball sweeps double-
header against Jacksonville
Ocasio threw a no-hitter, pg. 17
Florida softball sweeps double-
header against Jacksonville
Ocasio threw a no-hitter,
Exhibit seeks art from survivors of violence
Artwork can be submitted until March 4, pg. 3
UF holds screening of ﬁ  lms
The ﬁ  lms were about women’s struggles, pg. 5Check out the Avenue
Beatles tribute band, campus fashion and 
Kanye West album review, pgs. 8 - 13
STAFF REPORT
UF students approved an amendment to 
bring online voting to UF’s Student Body as 
Impact Party claimed the executive ticket Wednesday night.
Impact walked onto the Reitz Union 
breezeway chanting, “I believe in you and I, and I believe in Impact,” before Erica Baker, the UF supervisor of elections, announced they received more than 7,000 votes, taking Student Body President, Student Body Vice President and Student Body Treasurer.
The amendment to allow online voting, 
submitted via petition by Global Vote, need-ed 60 percent of the vote to pass. It got more 
than 68 percent with 6,047 votes in support 
and 2,751 votes against it.
With the passing of the amendment, UF 
will become the last school in the South-eastern Conference to implement online voting.
Caroline Nickerson, 21, a member of 
Global Vote, said the group stood behind the crowd and  anxiously waited for the re-
sult of the amendment. When they heard 
it had passed, they started hugging and screaming.
“I just let out a bloodcurdling shriek of 
joy,” the UF East Asian languages and lit-eratures and history junior said. “I don’t think it’ll feel real until I cast that ﬁ  rst on-line ballot.”
With 10,694 students voting this year, 
fewer students voted than last Spring when 12,742 students voted.
Susan Webster and Brendon “BJ” Jona-
ssiant, the Impact president-elect and vice president-elect, received 7,222 votes, taking just under 70 percent of the vote. Kishan Patel, the Impact treasurer-elect, won 7,147 votes.
After Baker announced Impact’s victory, 
a crowd of Impact supporters tossed Web-ster into the air in celebration.
Kalyani Hawaldar and Hammaad Saber, 
the Access presidential and vice-presiden-tial candidate, received 3,200 votes. Lillian Rozsa, the Access treasurer candidate, won 3,262 votes.
In addition to taking the executive tick-
et, Impact won 39 Senate seats, Baker an-nounced at 10:20 p.m. Access won 11 seats.
Impact claimed all six seats in the Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences, UF’s larg-est college. Impact also took the College of Engineering’s four seats and all three Busi-ness Administration seats.
Impact took the six sophomore seats and 
all three freshman seats. The College of Ag-riculture and Life Sciences’s three seats also went to Impact as did College of Journal-ism’s two seats. Access won Fine Arts’s one seat.
The 10 graduate seats were split, with 
Impact winning two seats and Access win-ning eight. Access also won the Law school 
senator seat and the Medicine senator seat.
At least 25 elections complaints were 
submitted, said Devin Esposito, the elec-
tion commissions chair. Complains will be heard Friday at 10 a.m. at the UF Levin Col-lege of Law.
Impact Party let out ear-splitting screams 
and jumped when Webster and Jonassaint were announced victors.Online voting passes, Impact wins
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Susan Webster celebrates after winning the executive ticket Wednesday night at the Reitz Union Breezeway. Impact Party 
won Student Body President and Student Body Vice President with 7,222 votes, a 68.45 percent majority.
CAMPUS
By Sophie Smadbeck
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the newly renovated Reitz Union, a 
Gator tradition will celebrate its 15th an-
niversary.
GatorNights, organized by the Reitz 
Union Board Entertainment, will have a 
zip line, carnival rides and performances 
by comedian Ron Funches (from NBC’s “Undateable”), UF’s Theatre Strike Force, No Southern Accent and Treble Makers. This will be the ﬁ  rst GatorNights to use the renovated Reitz, and about 2,000 people are expected to attend.
GatorNights began Aug. 25, 2000, to 
give students a safe option on the week-ends, Josh Wilson, the program coordi-nator of Reitz Union programs, said. The budget for Friday will be about $18,000 to $20,000, Wilson said. A typical GatorNights program costs about $8,000, he said.
Jennifer Kassicieh, a 20-year-old busi-
ness administration junior and the Reitz Union Board of Entertainment’s Gator-Nights committee director, said she’s look-ing forward to Friday.
“We’ve never had these three groups 
perform together in one show, so that’s a big deal for our organization and all their organizations,” she said. 
Students who visit different spaces will 
receive a T-shirt, said graduate assistant of Reitz Union programs Maggie Sutton. 
“I’m just really excited for the students 
to enjoy their renovated space and to get to know these spaces in a fun and engaging and exciting way,” Sutton said.
Samantha Taglieri, a 19-year-old UF ed-
ucation sophomore, said she’ll attend.
“I’m excited for the Alice and Wonder-
land theme, which is pretty cool.” she said. “I’m also excited for the rides,” she said.  GatorNights 
celebrates anniversary with zip line, performances
SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 4Impact took 39 senate seats“I’m just really excited for the students 
to enjoy their renovated space and to 
get to know these spaces in a fun and 
engaging and exciting way.”
Maggie Sutton
Graduate Assistant of Reitz Union programsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Beginner’s Photography 
Workshop
On Friday from 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs and Sparks 
Magazine are re-offering their be-
ginner photography workshop to teach skills needed for capturing a professional-quality photo. Learn fundamental concepts of photog-raphy using DSLR cameras. You will then have an opportunity to test your skills outside. They hope APIA-identified and non-APIA 
identified individuals will learn to 
express themselves through this creative medium and become in-spired to submit to the 2015-2016 APIA Anthology. Please bring your own camera. 
2016 Dr. Ronald C. Foreman 
Lecture
Today at 6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall 
Ocora, Fredrick Harris, a profes-sor of political science and the director of the Center on African American Politics and Society, will give the annual Dr. Ronald C. Foreman Lecture, which honors the UF African American Studies program’s first director. Professor 
Harris conducts research on racial 
and ethnic political participation, social movements, religion and politics; however, his primary specialization is African-American politics.The title of his lecture is “The Rise, Decline, and Rebirth of Black Politics in the Age of Obama,” from his book, “The 
Price of the Ticket: Barack Obama 
and the Rise and Fall of Black Politics.”
Sex in the Swamp returns to UF 
todayThe Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF, in partner-ship with the UF Student Health 
Care Center, is proud to announce 
a renewed Sex in the Swamp event coming to the Florida Gym today. Starting at 7 p.m., join campus and community organiza-tions for a variety of great Spring Break tips, information and free-bies, including a live SEXpert panel, free food, giveaways and 
free tank tops and sunglasses for 
the first 200 students. To RSVP on Facebook, visit facebook.com/events/1666178790317109.
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate its 15-year anniversary and the grand re-opening of the Reitz Union 
renovation and expansion with a 
Wonderland-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. The event will feature free bowling in the newly renovated game room, a zip line, carnival rides, a T-shirt giveaway, performances from Theatre Strike Force, No Southern Accent and The Treble Makers and a comedy show featuring Ron Funches. The event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “Spectre” at 8 
p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 105
HIGH  70° LOW  43°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
KNOW WHERE POETS
Kelsey Cruz, a 20-year-old UF psychology sophomore, shares a post-Valen-
tine’s Day poem with members of Poets Inc at Know Where Coffee’s open mic night on Wednesday. The poem was a tribute to being single on Valen-tine’s Day.
Paulina Praphanchith / AlligatorBy Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Victim Services 
and Rape Crisis Center recently invited sur-
vivors of interpersonal violence to submit 
artwork by March 4. 
Ashley Flattery, 26,  a victim advocate 
counselor, said interpersonal violence 
ecompasses physical, sexual, emotional 
and domestic violence.
The exhibit’s opening reception is on 
March 25 at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris Books, where it will stay until 
March 31, according to a press release. The Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art will then host the exhibit from April 5 to April 14. 
She said the free event will display orig-
inal artwork to recognize Sexual Assault Awareness Month.
“We have seen people come away 
shaken from learning about something they didn’t know was such a big issue, and people who come and are excited to see a community that understands their experi-ence,” Flattery said. 
Wild Iris Books will host the event for 
its third year, said co-owner Erica Merrell.
The crisis center will help bookstore 
employees create calming glitter jars, which are ﬁ  lled with water, food coloring 
and glitter. 
“It is very natural that we would partner 
with them and say no to violence,” Merrell, 
38, said. 
The Harn Museum will hold a closing 
ceremony on April 14, Flattery said, when survivors of interpersonal violence can speak during an open mic portion of the reception.
“It has presented a time where they feel 
compelled and empowered to speak to the community, and it is powerful to watch,” Flattery said.  Exhibit seeks art from 
violence survivors LOCAL4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
“The good always wins!” Webster shout-
ed.
Before results were announced, Access’ 
executive ticket locked arms in front of the 
platform where results were announced.
“At the end of the day no matter what 
happens, we’re fighting for our morals and 
what was right,” Saber said. “We didn’t 
do what was for our own self interest; we fought for the students.”
After results were announced, Hawaldar 
said she was happy online voting passed.
“I’m so excited that online voting passed, 
I think that’s a big deal for the Student Body,” Hawaldar said. “I think we’re head-ing in the right direction as Student Govern-
ment as a whole.”
ALLIGATOR FAVORITE WRITE-INS
• Seamore Butts
• Leslie Knope
• Wiz was fire
• Deez Nuts
• Jim Lahey
• Squirrel
• YesTotal voter turnout was 10,694 compared to 12,742 votes last Spring
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Access Party treasurer candidate Lillian Rozsa (left) celebrates with Access presidential candidate Kalyani Hawaldar after remote on-
line voting was passed Wednesday night. More than 6,000 students voted “Yes” on the amendment, with 68.73 percent of the votes.
IT AIMS TO RAISE 
MONEY FOR REFUGEES.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students have re-established a student 
organization to raise money and educate oth-
ers about North Korea.
Connie Choe, a UF criminology and politi-
cal science junior, said she re-established UF’s 
branch of Liberty in North Korea, a national 
organization that helps relocate and support North Korean refugees while educating com-
munities about the country, on Tuesday. The 
club plans to give presentations to students in other organizations about the country and raise money to relocate North Korean refu-gees.
It costs about $3,000 to rescue one refugee 
and provide them with shelter, said Choe, the co-president of the club. She said LiNK plans to partner with UF’s Asian American Student 
Union and the Korean Undergraduate Student 
Association.
North Korean citizens face extreme mal-
nutrition, homelessness and concentration camps, the 21-year-old said. If one person is convicted of a crime, his or her entire family is sent to the camps, which are known for hu-man rights violations, she said.
Choe said families have very little to eat.“Something like an egg is like a prized ma-
terial,” she said. “It’s like gold to them; they eat it once a year.”
Rebecca Kim, a former co-president of the 
club, said the club was inactive last year.
“We couldn’t find any members to really 
continue it,” said Kim, who graduated UF in 2015.
Kim said she was involved in the club be-
cause of her connection to South Korea. She was born in the country and moved to the U.S. about 10 years ago.
The 21-year-old said her mother’s grand-
father was taken prisoner in North Korea for being a religious leader.
“In North Korea, they hide other religions,” 
she said. “It’s going against what the govern-
ment is teaching them.”
Choe, who moved to the U.S. from South 
Korea when she was 8, said she hopes the 
club helps as many people as possible and teaches students about human rights viola-tions in the country.
“Nobody should stand for that,” she said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgNorth Korean club restarted
By Sydney Denninger
Alligator Contributing Writer
     UF’s Student Nighttime Auxil-iary Patrol will ask for more fund-ing this Summer.
The University Police Depart-ment will request about $526,000 from Student Government on July 1, said Officer Wayne Clark, a UPD spokesman and the SNAP coor-dinator, said. This request will go toward van repairs, employee sala-ries, gas, maintaining the TapRide 
app and maintaining radios used in vans. The amount requested is 
slightly more than in past years.
SNAP, which gives rides to UF 
students from 6:30 p.m. to 3 a.m. every day during the Fall and Spring 
semesters and from 8:30 p.m. to 3 
a.m. in the Summer, gave about 126,000 rides in 2014, he said. 
In 2015, the service gave more 
than 140,000 rides.
Clark said he thinks the increase is due to a greater number of SNAP vehicles.
“We went from technically four 
vans in Fall 2014, and in that time, we would add a fifth van during 
peak hours,” Clark said. 
Now, SNAP has seven vans.
“In Fall 2014, we were dealing 
with the influence of the Gainesville Grabber,” he said, referring to a se-ries of assaults on campus during Fall 2014.
All seven vans run every night, 
he said. 
Amy Mendez, an 18-year-old 
business administration freshman, 
said she frequently uses SNAP.
“I don’t have a car on campus, 
so the fact that the wait time is 
short is helpful when I’m in a rush or when the weather is bad,” Men-dez said.SNAP to request funding from Student Government  By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Planning Commission 
unanimously agreed Wednesday to a policy revision that would affect road maintenance.
The revision would save money when 
resurfacing Gainesville roads by no longer 
requiring the county to pave bike lanes and 
road shoulders. The Alachua County Board of County Commissioners will discuss the pro-posal on Feb. 23.
James Harriott Jr., the Deputy County Man-
ager for Public Works and Growth Manage-ment, and Chris Dawson, the Alachua County senior transportation planner, pushed for the revision of Policy 1.6.8 of the Transportation 
Mobility Element in the County’s Comprehen-
sive Plan.
About 15 adults and one baby listened to 
Harriott argue that 60 percent of Gainesville roads need resurfacing.
“We have pavement well beyond its nor-
mal life span,” Harriott said. “I would love to start from scratch — build a road from base up and build it perfect — but we don’t have the 
money in this county to do that.”Members of Gainesville’s Cycling Club and 
the Gainesville Citizens for Active Transporta-
tion said cutting corners to save money will 
ruin safety in the long run.
Allyson Gill is the vice president of the cy-
cling club, but she spoke for herself Wednes-
day. Gill said she strongly opposes the revi-sion.
“I’m a taxpayer, so my taxes pay for all 
these projects just like everybody else,” she said.
@Mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgCommission supports 
change to road policy, bikes
BOCC CONTACTS
• Mike Byerly
 byerly@alachuacounty.us
• Lee Pinkoson
 lpinkoson@alachuacounty.us• Robert Hutchinson
 rhutchinson@alachuacounty.us• Ken Cornell
 KCornell@alachuacounty.us• Charles Chestnut
 cschestnut@alachuacounty.us
Next discussion: Feb. 23
About $526,000 from SG
ELECTION,  from pg 1THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Diana Illingworth / Alligator
FLOWER POWER
Dylan Diljohn (left), a 21-year-old UF microbiology senior, hands a ﬂ  ower to Chelsey Perez, a 
22-year-old UF women’s studies senior, on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday morning. Diljohn said he hopes to raise awareness of Islam Appreciation Month on behalf of Islam On Campus.
By Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Hispanic-Latino Affairs 
partnered with the Alachua County 
Migrant Education Program on Mon-day to establish monthly tours for migrant high school students.
Diana Moreno, a 28-year-old UF 
Latin American studies alumna, said she worked for ACMEP when she graduated in 2011.
Moreno, now the program co-
ordinator at HLA, said she held the ﬁ  rst tour Feb. 15.
“The ﬁ  rst stop was at La Casita, 
where we talked to them one-on-one 
about college, if they have any ques-
tions about resources and the things that HLA offers, as well as the uni-versity,” Moreno said.
The tour also included stops at 
Library West, Turlington Plaza, the Plaza of the Americas and the Reitz Union, she said.
The children Moreno tutored need more from their local univer-sity, she said, and she began to plan the collaboration in January.
Moreno said she hopes the pro-
gram helps nomadic students over-come barriers to their education.
“A lot of migrant children might 
attend two to three schools a year because their parents migrant de-pending on crops and their season,” she said.
Sarai Chavarria, a 25-year-old UF 
history senior, helped Moreno lead the ﬁ  rst tour.
Chavarria, an HLA ambassa-
dor, also belongs to Chispas, a UF organization meant to provide im-migrant students and their families with scholarships and guidance on citizenship.
“We service migrant children in 
making sure that they continue their public education, because UF has to serve all Gators no matter their back-ground, and this program is doing that,” Chavarria said.  Program oﬀ  ers migrant 
students resources, tours
THE FILMS WERE ABOUT 
WOMEN’S STRUGGLES.
By Daniel Smithson
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 100 people watched a screening of 
short ﬁ  lms about problems women experience 
Wednesday afternoon.
UF’s Baldwin Library of Historical Chil-
dren’s Literature and Center for Children’s Lit-
erature and Culture presented a screening of 
“Wind of Change,” a series of short ﬁ  lms from the Global Girls Film Festival, started by the In-ternational Children’s Media Center. The short ﬁ  lms were shown at Smathers Library to in-form Gainesville residents about the ﬁ  lm festi-val, said Nicole Dreiske, the executive director of the International Children’s Media Center.
The Global Girls Film Festival is a 14-week 
ﬁ  lm program during which formerly homeless women, abused young women, single mothers and women placed in detention centers show and discuss about 40 to 50 ﬁ  lms from around the world, Dreiske said. They pick ﬁ  lms they feel represent their struggles. UF’s screening of “Wind of Change” included six short ﬁ  lms.
One ﬁ  lm was based on an 11-year-old Dutch girl who suffers from Tourette syndrome, a neurological disorder. Another featured a French phone-obsessed 12-year-old who had to spend a day at his grandmother’s house in the Louisiana bayou. The team reached out to Dreiske last semester because it wanted to use media at the Baldwin Library, said Leila Estes, a coordinator at the Center for Children’s Lit-
erature and Culture.
“We want people to 
know just because we’re a library, that doesn’t mean we just have to have events based off books,” Estes said. “We usually bring in authors, but we met, and 
we wanted to do some-
thing different.”
Charlie McKnight, a 20-year-old sports 
management sophomore at the University of 
North Florida, was visiting Gainesville and said she came to the screening with the Wom-en’s Student Association.
“These short ﬁ  lms depicted difﬁ  culties 
young women and girls face,” McKnight said. “Today’s society puts so much pressure on us 
as women to conform and be a certain way 
that we forget what makes us who we are as individuals.”  UF holds screening of ﬁ  lms
By Amanda DioGuardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Heavener School of Business is 
hosting an international business competi-
tion this week.
The Heavener International Case Compe-
tition, a weeklong competition that aims to expose students to challenges and decisions global business leaders face, started Mon-day and will end Saturday. This is the ﬁ  rst year UF is hosting the event.
UF’s team is competing against 19 other 
universities from around the world. Each team will give its ﬁ  nal presentation from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday.
Joseph Couture, the director of logistics 
for the competition, said each team consists of four students from every university.
“During case days, participants are given 
a real-world business problem,” the 21-year-old said. “The participants then have to present their solutions to current working business professionals.”
Registration for the competition costs 
about $700, not including ﬂ  ights or hotels, the UF ﬁ  nance senior said.
Luis Franco, the student president for the 
competition, said the winning school will get a trophy and international recognition.
“The winner has bragging rights about 
having the best and brightest undergradu-ate business students,” the 22-year-old UF business senior said. “And that’s a reward-ing title to hold.”
Rhiannon Nind, a business junior at 
Queensland University of Technology in Australia, said she joined the competition because it was a great opportunity to meet others.
“It’s such a friendly culture for competi-
tors,” the 19-year-old said. “In addition, it is an amazing competition with the best in the world.”UF hosts international 
business competitionCAMPUS
Dreiske
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnNew or old, insider 
or outsider, SG 
must be held to 
high expectations
As many had predicted, last night saw the Impact 
Party emerge victorious in the Spring 2016 elec-tion. The ascension of the Impact Party comes after 
what may have been one of the most insufferable 
Student Government election cycles in UF’s his-
tory, with few of the involved parties (no pun intended) emerging unscathed or without blemish. Keeping the utter 
insanity of the last week in mind, we’re relieved to see the 
election draw to a close.
At the risk of sounding like many a UF parent, we’re not 
mad about the results…just disappointed. We don’t get it: Following our own editorial on The System — which itself 
was just the latest in a long lineage of Alligator editorials, 
articles and columns on the subject — the virality of the #NotMySystem movement had us momentarily convinced that yes, ﬁ  nally, something had changed in the collective 
psyche of the Student Body. Regardless of her motivations 
and ignoring the video’s near-comical, over-dramatic ﬂ  air, Sabrina Philipp’s onscreen confession to aiding and abet-ting The System seemed to have struck a real chord with students. What’s more, the story was picked up by national 
outlets, with Cosmopolitan, Seventeen and — groan — To-
tal Frat Move all reporting on the video and the subsequent reactions. We’re too bewildered to be truly angry about last night’s results, but it’s possible that maybe, just maybe, we 
get the Student Government we deserve.
It’s not all doom and gloom, however, as the referendum 
on online voting was successfully afﬁ  rmed. We feel now, 
as we did then, that incorporating online voting into SG elections is a no-brainer that has been long overdue. Online 
voting enables students who are studying abroad or intern-
ing in a different state to have a palpable say in SG without going through the absentee ballot process. Online voting gives a voice to those who may not have known they had 
one, you know, like a real democracy.
With the election thankfully behind us, it is our hope 
that SG can now move forward in a constructive, unify-
ing manner. Although the powers that be have reminded us that they never truly left, with online voting and an in-
creased awareness of their dealings, perhaps The System 
can ﬁ  nd a way to operate in a populist fashion.
SG elections aren’t JUST a popularity contest: These 
young men and women are our future leaders, policymak-
ers and, conceivably, great thinkers. What they learn about 
campaigning and representation here carries over into the “real” world upon graduation — whether this is a good thing, we’re reserving our judgments. We extend our con-gratulations to the new iteration of SG, and look forward to 
seeing them act in service of the Gator Nation, not the Gator 
Boardroom.From President Fuchs: a goodbye to UF’s greeter
You probably know Shelly McCray and 
don’t even realize it. Everyone knows Shelly!
Three weeks ago, I attended Shelly’s 
retirement reception. She worked for 35 
years at the visitor kiosk at the entry to campus at 13th Street and Second Avenue. She was UF’s greeter, and she was the ﬁ  rst person all of us saw as we entered campus. She smiled and waved at us as we went by. She welcomed visitors and helped them navigate the difﬁ  culties of ﬁ  nding parking. When I saw her smile and wave in the morning, I always felt as though it was going to be a good day. 
We are all blessed on a daily basis by UF’s staff, who 
may not be recognized like our faculty are with internation-al awards and honors, but who are a critical part of UF’s preeminence and an essential component of our teaching, research and service mission. They make UF who we are, and they take as much pride in the university as our alumni, students and faculty. We often don’t notice their accom-plishments, but we notice when the work isn’t done. When students are discouraged, are ill or have a personal problem, it often is a member of UF’s staff who provides encourage-
ment and help.
UF has about 30,000 full-time employees, of which about 
5,000 consider themselves faculty. Half of our staff has 
worked at UF for 10 or more years. Many of our staff were born and raised in Gainesville, and many others commute from towns like Starke, Ocala and Cedar Key. For some, this means leaving home in the morning when it is dark and getting home late after sunset. We also have staff working at more than 100 additional UF locations in every county 
across the state .
In addition to her UF job, Shelly spent 25 years working 
at a second job so she could earn enough to support her chil-
dren as a single mother. Although UF strives to pay competi-tive market wages, it is difﬁ  cult for some of our lowest-paid staff to raise a family on what they earn. I’m proud to an-nounce that last month, UF raised its minimum hourly wage for full-time employees from $10 per hour to $12 per hour, which cost the university approximately only $1 million more each year. However, we have more to do in this area as we obtain the necessary re-sources.
More than 100 people packed the University 
Gallery to honor Shelly McCray last month. The gallery was ﬁ  lled with people representing the breadth of our campus. I tweeted out a photo of the art gallery, as well as University Police Chief Linda Stump-Kurnick speaking about Shelly’s 35 years of commitment to UF. Tampa news reporter 
Grayson Kamm tweeted a response: “A ﬁ  tting venue! Dedi-cation like that creates a legacy that is like a work of art.”  
Like Shelly, each of our employees creates a legacy at 
UF. Whether they interact directly with students or work behind the scenes in ofﬁ  ces or on facilities, their legacies are the lives of UF students and the university, both of which will endure.
A few months ago, I made a Snapchat story about one 
of my days as president. I included Shelly in my story, and she was overjoyed when it made the local evening news. On occasion, I would go to the cafe in Heavener Hall for coffee and a mufﬁ  n and bring back a cookie for Shelly. This was 
my way of thanking her for being the cheerful and helpful 
face of UF. Shelly’s retirement reminded me I need to thank all of UF’s employees for all that they do for UF and, in par-ticular, how they make each of our lives richer and better.
Shelly McCray was the last to speak at her retirement 
reception. She concluded by breaking into a song:
“I’ve had some good daysI’ve had some bad daysI’ve had some hills to climb
But my good days
Outweigh my bad daysSo I won’t complain.” Shelly, I pray you will have a blessed retirement. Your 
good days and your bad days were a blessing to all of us that saw you every day. To all of UF’s staff, THANK YOU!
Kent Fuchs is the president of the University of Florida. 
His column appears monthly.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and Donald 
Trump may seem extremely different in their views, but they are noticeably 
similar in their public appeal. Bernie is 
a democratic socialist who favors the 
European socialist way of running government, which involves government-imposed wealth 
equality via hefty taxes. Trump lies on the op-
posite end of the spectrum, believing in the magical powers of capitalism and pure competi-tion. That’s right — a democratic socialist and the single-most capitalistic name in history could be duking it out 
this November. We may be in for quite the show.
These two men are the direct enemies of each other’s 
campaigns. Both campaigns are using anger to appeal to 
the American public, with Bernie vetting against the “1 
percent” (Trump) and Trump bashing established D.C. 
politicians (Sanders).
The recent New Hampshire polls got me thinking 
about an issue close to the hearts of both Bernie and Trump: executive pay in the country. Mr. anti-1 percent 
percent and Mr. 1 percent himself are currently dominat-
ing the political world, leaving voters to decide between two extremes. Both present vastly different views about the distribution of wealth in America, with Bernie clam-
oring for more income equality and Trump favoring raw, 
competitive capitalism.
The topic of executive pay is only a thing because 
many believe it to be directly indicative of income in-equality in our economy. Currently, the U.S. leads the 
world in this category, with the average CEO making 354 
times more than the average worker below them. This is a dramatically larger ratio than those of the everything-is-wonderful countries of Europe, who we seem to love 
gushing over as superior to us. A few years ago, the Swiss 
tried to pass a law that would cap the ratio at 1:12, only for it to be denied by 65 percent of voters.
Is there growing income inequality in America today? 
Yes, data seems to suggest this. But is executive pay a 
major factor in this? It certainly isn’t the sole cause, and 
trying to ﬁ  x it with governmental regulations might bring about greater consequences in the long run.
Anyone who’s ever paid attention in an economics 
class has been taught supply and demand. That’s what all executive pay, and all pay for that matter, should be. The more skilled and in-demand something or someone is, the higher the price for the work. There aren’t waiting rooms ﬁ  lled to the brim with individu-als qualiﬁ  ed to be CEOs. It is due to the scarcity 
of this resource that such high wages are being 
paid. In other words, they are successful busi-nessmen and women who have earned it.
People act like CEOs sit around counting 
wads of cash and petting ﬂ  uffy white cats on their golden throne. Many paint executives as evil kings from the feudal times, sucking up ev-
ery penny from the peasants populating their land. Exec-utives and the “1 percent” have become targets of many 
young people, especially those on the left. And what for? 
Because they have jobs that pay well? Will taking money from them suddenly result in everyone getting richer? Does the money taken from Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos’ 
checking account magically end up in yours and mine?
America’s business leaders and wealthy people do not 
let their money grow stagnant. It doesn’t just sit in large, 
gold vaults collecting dust. I am not for executives get-ting paid whatever they desire, but instead for them get-
ting the pay that their company feels they deserve. These 
people reinvest it into the economy, keeping the money circulating and providing jobs. Why get mad at the people who create and provide work? Take away their money, 
and they’ll take their business — and the jobs — else-
where.
Executive pay is not the big problem right now. Regu-
lating it will not suddenly ﬁ  x income inequality. Although wealth distribution sounds great on paper, it is a whole 
other story when put into action. Instead of directing all 
anger towards executives and the “1 percent,” I feel that there are more pressing and impactful issues needing at-tention, such as foreign policy and international trade, 
that have more immediate impacts on the country’s over-
all health.
Capitalism is what helped make America prosper in 
the twentieth century, and I fear losing it will negative-ly affect the twenty-ﬁ  rst century. For now, I would say 
focusing less on ﬁ  ghting our country’s executives, and 
more on electing the right people to ofﬁ  ce would do more to help all of us. This century has already brought signiﬁ  -cant changes to our country, but the American Dream is 
still far from dead.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. His column 
appears on Thursdays.Is executive pay a cause of income inequality?Column
After his large win in New Hampshire, America seems 
to be “feeling the Bern” like never before. Many, in-cluding Hillary Clinton, had never thought that Sen. 
Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., could or would make it this far; 
and yet, here we are. Sanders is running a campaign 
espousing progressive policies that would ostensibly better this country, which has garnered largely positive reactions to 
his candidacy. However, good vibrations aside, it is important 
he receives valid criticism just as much as any other candidate in the race.
Speaking personally, I absolutely adore Sen. Sanders, and I 
can attest to his widespread appeal. To a disillusioned genera-
tion that seems to want to make political apathy a pastime, 
Sanders is exciting precisely because he is not like the average politician. Between the oddities — his crazy hair and the folk album he recorded decades ago — and the issues of larger 
import — his support of social and racial equality goes all the 
way back to being arrested for civil disobedience during the civil rights movement — Sanders embodies many values that young, liberal Americans hold dear. 
With that said, being a swell guy has never earned anyone 
a ticket to the White House.
This isn’t some slavish essay about how awesome and per-
fect Clinton is; as many do, I have several issues with her. But what few seem to be willing to acknowledge is that Sand-
ers’ platform positions on the campaign trail are policies that 
would be quickly torn up in Washington, D.C. on day one.
One of the key policies put forth by Sanders concerns a sin-
gle-payer healthcare system such as those in European coun-tries and Canada. We could argue, as many conservatives do, 
this would be difﬁ  cult to transfer into the pre-existing Ameri-
can healthcare system. But even if a such a policy were placed on the table in a Sanders presidency, it would still have to get through Congress. Now, I don’t know if many in my age group 
have taken a look at Congress lately, but it doesn’t paint a rosy 
picture as far as the prospects for progressive policies go.
We are living with a Republican Congress that has tried 
to repeal Obamacare at every chance it gets. Obamacare was difﬁ  cult to pass with a Democratic majority back in 2010: No 
matter who the victor of 2016 will be, it is likely the Repub-
licans will retain their control over the House. How could a hypothetical self-avowed socialist president push through pol-icies when Republicans work against a moderate president?
Sanders is also extremely lacking in foreign policy experi-
ence. He consistently cites his vote against the Iraq War as a badge of honor and as his crowning achievement in the realm of foreign policy. This vote against the Iraq War is not only a point of pride for the Sanders campaign but has also been a 
useful way to attack Clinton for her support of it. Since 2002, 
Clinton has become far more experienced in the realm of for-eign policy than any other candidate. As Marco Rubio put it, “If this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clinton 
is going to be the next president.” 
Being on the Armed Services Committee or the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs is a pretty signiﬁ  cant step up from having 
cast a vote in Congress.
In the end, Sanders, like every other candidate, is the sub-
ject of easily refutable criticisms that are frustrating to explain away. In the end, one should vote for the candidate he or she feels has the best skills to handle the job. Speaking personally again, I think a Sanders administration would have much to 
learn in a short amount of time about foreign policy. After 
all, so did a certain governor from Texas, and look how that turned out.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His column 
appears on Thursdays.Bernie Sanders needs 
to be criticized Column
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Bo Diddley reopens as part of Changeville
Soul singer Charles Bradley will perform, pg 12.What’s inside: 
See the Avenue’s campus fashion ﬁ  nds, pg 9.Check out our review on Kanye’s new album, pg 10.By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
John, Paul, George and Ringo 
will shake it up this weekend in 
Gainesville.
Beatles tribute band the Mersey 
Beatles will be performing at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second 
Ave., on Saturday. Special guest Julia Baird, John Lennon’s sister, will also be in attendance, signing copies of her book, “Imagine This: Growing Up with My Brother John Lennon.”
This is the band’s ﬁ  rst time 
touring through Florida, and it’s 
their third time touring the U.S., 
Steven Howard, the band’s lead-er, said. Howard, who plays Paul McCartney, said the band will be playing fan favorites, including 
“She Loves You” and “Sgt. Pep-
per’s Lonely Hearts Club Band.”
“Sometimes people shout out 
obscure songs that we put in,” he said.
Among these songs is “Imag-
ine,” a John Lennon solo.
“If we are in the mood, and it 
feels right, we will throw ‘Imagine’ 
in,” Howard said.
The band has been around 
since 1999, and from 2002 to 
2012 it served as the house band for The Cavern Club, the same venue where the original Fab Four played.“The Cavern is a place that you 
never get tired of,” Howard said. “A lot of tourists and people from 
all over the world come; on any 
night three-fourths of the audience are new,” he said.
Julia Baird, who grew up with 
John Lennon and witnessed the beginning of the Beatles, said hun-dreds of fans travel to Liverpool to experience the ﬂ  avor of the classic band. The Mersey Beatles, though, 
have something unique that con-
nects them to the real Fab Four.
“They are bringing the Liver-
pool essence to America. They have one ingredient that other trib-ute bands do not have, and that is being from Liverpool,” Baird said. “The nature of the Beatles is al-ready there.”
Baird said, despite there be-
ing more than 800 tribute bands around the world, she believes this band has an edge.
“They got every record, they 
grew up listening to the Beatles and their parents played them all 
the time,” she said.  
The excitement during each 
show never fades, and “that’s the 
thing we bring to the table, which will be close to the original in terms of the content,” Howard said.
This weekend, the band will 
be dressed in their beloved black suits, Sgt. Pepper’s costumes and 
the Beatles “Abbey Road” cloth-
ing, including John Lennon’s white suit, he said.
Victoria Berlingo said she has 
been a fan of the Beatles for more than six years and still listens to their music. She said she hopes to attend the concert.
“Tribute bands like this show 
that, although music is old, it’s still appreciated,” the 19-year-old man-agement freshman said. “People still listen to their music.”
Howard said he has much ad-
miration for the music and hopes others feel the same way. He said the band is sure they will be back and hope to repeat the tour in 2017.
High Dive’s doors open Satur-
day at 8 p.m., and the performance starts at 8:30 p.m. Tickets vary from $25 to $79, and they cost $20 
for students at the door.
“We are here to bring the mes-
sage that the Beatles always live 
on. Come along to the show and enjoy,” Howard said.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Fans twist and shout for Beatles tribute band
Lennon’s sister to sign books at show
Hailing from Liverpool, 
the Mersey Beatles will 
perform at 8:30 p.m. on Saturday at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave.
Courtesy to the AlligatorTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
Campus Fashion Finds
By Isa Perez
Avenue Writer
If you’re like me, deciding what to 
wear to class can be a struggle. Some 
of us ignore it and go for the first thing we find, while others careful-ly select their ensembles. Now that 
we’re experiencing colder weather, 
we Floridians tend to throw on a gi-ant hoodie and call it an outfit. So I took it upon myself to find some inspiration on UF’s campus with stu-dents who put a little more effort into their daily look. Here’s what I found!
My first campus find was UF public 
relations junior Tiffany Trujillo. 
What tends to catch my eye is when 
people get creative with outerwear. Trujillo’s olive-green jacket was paired with an ivory tie-up top and jeggings (jean leggings) — cute enough to wear out but comfortable enough to wear to school. The slits across the knee add an edgy touch to an otherwise prim outfit. For 
Trujillo, this combination is the best for when it gets cold outside because 
it keeps her warm but doesn’t make her sweat during the warmer parts 
of the day. The olive-toned jacket is 
Trujillo’s favorite touch because it adds a pop of color to her outfit. Her reasons for carefully choosing her outfits on a regular day: “You never know who you are going to meet,” she said. “Oh, and I love looking and feeling good about what I’m wearing. It gives me the confidence boost that 
I need to get through the day.”
UF electrical engineering junior Daniel Clayton 
caught my eye with the super sold-out Yeezy Boost 350’s on his feet. The pattern-on-pattern 
combination of a polka dot button-up and tribal sweater revealed his risk-taking fashion sense. He also didn’t sacrifice his comfort and paired his look with Adidas jumpsuit pants. He said he lives by 
fashion designer Rachel Zoe’s words: “Style is a 
way to say who you are without having to speak.” Zoe’s quote puts into words the reason why he tries to look different. To Clayton, clothes aren’t just a necessity but an art form used to express yourself 
when your own words don’t do it justice.Another pop of 
color caught my attention when I 
ran into UF nutritional science freshman Lindsey Winbush. It was an orange statement 
necklace layered over 
a white button-down and thrifted blue plaid blazer. To complete the look, she paired 
the layers with classic 
jeans and cutout boots. Winbush’s style is her form of nonverbal 
expression, but finding 
the perfect outfit isn’t always easy for her. She said she feels a girl’s pain during that 
moment you have 
“nothing to wear” while staring at a closet full of clothes.
The casual-meets-formal look on UF journalism junior Anthony Williams demanded my attention. 
He spruced up his casual button-up and shorts ensemble with a hat, tie and loafers. Meanwhile, his sweater flaunted a mixture of two prints, which made his entirely black-and-white outfit pop. Although Williams said he doesn’t have a signature style, he likes to look 
sharp and ready for any occasion. 
He dresses up for school because he believes school is a business and it makes him feel more ready to learn.THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
Kanye West finally released his 
highly anticipated album “The Life of Pablo” on Sunday. TLOP is Kanye’s seventh solo studio album in his impeccable dis-
cography. The album has been talked about a lot due to numerous album title changes, tracklisting changes and many rumors circulating with little credibil-ity to them. Kanye first debuted several songs during his “Yeezy Season 3” fash-ion show, which took place in the sold out Madison Square Garden last Thurs-day. After his show, many news outlets got to speculating about which songs were which and tried to put together an official tracklist, with the guest features included. The album was supposed to be released last Thursday, but last min-ute changes delayed the project’s debut for another two days. Yeezy had been tweeting information about his album up until its release, and he even described it as a “gospel” album. We soon learned he wasn’t kidding.“The Life of Pablo” starts with a child 
praying on the intro of “Ultralight Beam,” 
which came from a video that went viral on Instagram. Kanye sings a soulful cho-rus, which is followed by a bridge sang 
by The-Dream. After a beautiful first verse 
from Kelly Price, Chance The Rapper de-livers a fire rap verse. Chance The Rapper fits “Ultralight Beam” perfectly, and it’s dope to see the two Chicago artists come together, especially because Chance has been very vocal about how Kanye has al-ways been his idol. The song closes out with a gospel outro from Kirk Franklin 
and the choir, and it goes into “Father 
Stretch My Hands Pt. 1.” “Father Stretch My Hands Pt. 1” starts off with a quick in-tro with the help of a choir. This song has one of the hardest beat drops I’ve heard in recent memory. After a quick ad-lib from Future, the beat drops with an awesome pre-hook from the former G.O.O.D. Music artist Kid Cudi. Kanye spits his first verse 
with a little auto tune effect, which then 
transitions into the second part with a sample of Pastor T.L. Barrett that contin-ues the “gospel” feel.“Father Stretch My Hands Pt. 2” is the 
first true banger on “The Life of Pablo,” with a feature coming from the latest G.O.O.D. Music signee Desiigner. The feature from the Brooklyn artist is actu-
ally a part of his breakout song, “Panda,” 
but sounds crazy on this beat. The beat builds up with a clapping effect and an in-tense verse that Kanye quickly spits until the beat switches into Desiigner’s verse, which super lit. The song ends with a soothing outro from Caroline Shaw that brings energy back down and goes into “Famous.”
What’s a Kanye West album without 
a number of controversial lyrics and sug-gestive remarks? Well it only took four songs to cause a stir. “Famous” features Rihanna, who absolutely kills the hook, and Swizz Beatz on production, who adds some vocals throughout the song. On this song, Kanye says he thinks he still might have sex with Taylor Swift because he 
made her famous, which he low-key did 
if we’re being real. “Famous” is a soul-ful track with a flawless beat switch and creative use of a sample coming from Sis-ter Nancy’s “Bam Bam.” A strong start to “The Life of Pablo.”
Kanye absolutely rips “Feedback,” 
which has a cool beat with some hints of “Yeezus” production. However, my per-
sonal favorite part of “Feedback” comes 
at the end when Yeezy abruptly stops the music and calls himself the “Ghetto Oprah.” “Lowlights” is sort of an inter-lude, which has an uncredited woman giving a sermon of sorts. Again, gospel album. After a quick break from the mu-sic, Ye gets right back to it on “Highlights” with the help of Young Thug on the in-
tro. If there’s someone who knows how 
to use the help of artists that most people aren’t used to, it’s Kanye West. Look at what he did with Chief Keef on “Hold My Liquor.” Like most songs on this album, “Highlights” goes through a few different beats. On “Highlights,” Kanye calls out Ray J, saying, “I bet me and Ray J would be friends if we ain’t love the same b---h.” 
The-Dream re-surfaces for the outro, and 
we go into “Freestyle 4.”
“Freestyle 4” is a brash song where the 
bass is deep and the vocals are leveled, and it builds up to a crazy drop after Ye’s first verse. The song features Desiigner, and it definitely has a “Yeezus” feel to it. The next song is something we all joked would happen but was actually done. “I 
Love Kanye” is a satirical song that is play-
ing off the “Kanye loves Kanye” meme, and he shows that he knows how to joke about himself.
The next song is “Waves,” and it just 
might be my favorite on “The Life of Pab-lo.” The song has an epic sound to it and features Chris Brown on the chorus and bridge. The meaningful lyrics and sincer-
ity in Kanye’s voice with Chris Brown’s 
singing and some Kid Cudi vocals on the bridge come together to transcend you into another world. Songs like this remind you that Kanye is easily the greatest of all time, in case you ever forgot.
On “FML,” Kanye delivers a raw verse 
and demonstrates his honesty over a simple beat. After the hook coming from 
The Weeknd, the beat has somewhat of 
a drop, a bass line and echoed effect that stays until the last minute where the song completely switches and Kanye is singing in a raspy voice over an auto tune effect.
“Real Friends” was a song released 
a few weeks ago as part of Kanye’s “G.O.O.D Fridays,” where he drops a song on a Friday leading up to his album. The 
song is too real and will really make you 
question the people you surround yourself with. Kanye talks about how he’s experi-enced losing friends who were never really down for him, and how he now knows who’s really there for him. Ty Dolla $ign also raps and sings throughout the song. “Real Friends” is vintage Kanye West rap-ping over a simple soul beat.
“Real Friends” goes into “Wolves,” 
which Kanye first debuted on his SNL performance back in 2015 and originally featured Vic Mensa and Sia. “Wolves” is a super dope song that is very dark, has heavy bass and has the sound of wolves howling in the background. The final ver-sion of “Wolves” features Frank Ocean at the very end, which is kind of random, but 
it’s good to know that Frank Ocean is still 
alive.
“30 Hours” was dropped the Friday be-
fore “The Life of Pablo” was released. “30 hours” is about four minutes of straight bars over a groovy beat. After a couple verses, Kanye talks over the beat as an outro with the help of Andre 3000, who’s only part is saying “30 hours.” “30 Hours” 
is a cool song because we’re not too used 
to Kanye rapping over a simple beat that has no tempo changes or beat switches.
The next song is “No More Parties in 
L.A.,” which was another song released as a part of G.O.O.D Friday’s and features Kendrick Lamar. “No More Parties in L.A.” has an old-school rap feel to it where Ken-drick and Kanye trade two of the hottest 
verses we’ve heard in a long time. Ken-
drick kills his part, but Kanye absolutely bodies the second verse. Ye spazzes out and raps for about three minutes without missing a beat.
The album ends with “Fade,” which 
was first played at Kanye’s “Yeezy Sea-son 2” fashion show. “Fade” has a catchy beat with a funky bassline and features Ty 
Dolla $ign and Post Malone. All the vocals 
are echoed, and “Fade” is one of the cooler songs on TLOP. Post Malone’s heavily au-totuned verse transitions the song into a dope beat drop but returns to the funky beat before the song and album ends.
“The Life of Pablo” is Kanye’s first al-
bum in nearly three years, and it was well worth the wait. However, there’s a catch. 
Kanye tweeted that his album will never 
be for sale, and it will only be available to stream on Tidal or his website (a Tidal embed). I don’t think that was right to do, especially because of how Kanye preaches he wants everyone to be inspired by and enjoy the stuff he creates, whether it be clothes, shoes or music. This could change but, in the meantime, head over to Tidal 
and start your 30-day free trial to listen to 
the greatness that is “The Life of Pablo.”
Off the Recordff the Record
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer         Kanye West’s “The Life of Pablo” was well worth the wait12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
By Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
Soul singer Charles Bradley will perform 
for the ﬁ  rst time in Gainesville as part of 
the Bo Diddley Community Plaza’s grand reopening.
The free concert will kick off the ﬁ  rst-
ever Changeville festival, as well as the frank2016 Community Street Fair. It will be the ﬁ  rst event at the newly renovated Bo Diddley Plaza, located at 111 E. University Ave. The show’s opening ceremony will be Feb. 25 at 6 p.m.
According to the Gainesville Community 
Redevelopment Agency, the concert will be a pre-reopening event at Bo Diddley Plaza. 
The ofﬁ  cial ribbon-cutting ceremony to re-
open the plaza will be held in early March.
Local bands Little Jake & the Soul Search-
ers and the Savants of Soul will open the concert.     Briana Mendez, a 22-year-old UF public relations senior and the music festi-val programmer for Changeville, said Brad-ley’s music will be relevant to the theme of the event: social change.
“I did a lot of research looking for art-
ists that are involved with social change, and Charles Bradley was one of my favorite choices,” Mendez said. “We were so excited when we reached out to him and they were interested in working with us.”
According to the frank conference’s web-
site, Bradley has recently performed at the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, South by 
Southwest, the Coachella Valley Music and 
Arts Festival and the Newport Folk Festival. His name has also been mentioned on the year-end “best of” lists from GQ, Rolling Stone and Mojo, according to the website.
Mendez said Bradley’s own story will de-
liver a powerful message to the audience.
“He has such a rags-to-riches story, and 
his songs really address issues such as pov-
erty and race,” she said.
Changeville and the street fair will both 
be presented by the frank2016 conference, a 
four-day event beginning Tuesday.
Ellen Nodine, the special projects coordi-
nator for the UF College of Journalism and Communications, said the frank conference is an invitation-only annual event that will bring together 300 public-interest commu-nicators who are passionate about social change. Speakers and attendees will travel from across the globe to attend the event. The community will use strategic communi-cations to drive positive social, institutional and behavioral change, she said.
The street fair is also a way for the frank 
conference to give back to the community and be part of it.
“We don’t want to just drop in on the 
community, and that’s why we have it downtown,” Nodine said. “We use local vendors, we have local caterers, and we have it in and out of all of the restaurants. We really want to be tied to the Gainesville community.”
The street fair will take place throughout 
downtown Gainesville, and admission will be free to the public. This is the second year 
the frank conference has coordinated this 
event, Nodine said.
According to the frank website, food 
trucks and music will begin on the plaza at 5:30 p.m., frank opening ceremonies will begin at 6:15 p.m. and the concert will begin with opening bands at 6:30 p.m.
Kristina Manus, a member of the Alpha 
PRoductions team and a 21-year-old UF 
public relations junior, said the street fair 
will be an opportunity for people to see why the week is being dubbed “Super Week 2016.”
“There are a lot of really inﬂ  uential 
events going on during the week for social change,” Manus said. “The week will be a chance for public-interest communicators to come together in Gainesville and talk about 
important issues.”
According to its website, Changeville will 
be a music, virtual reality, storytelling and 
comedy festival where artists can connect.
Mendez said she is excited for the public 
to connect with Bradley, a soul singer with a beautiful, yet sometimes powerfully sad, message.
“Part of frank and part of Changeville is 
using different ways of storytelling for so-cial change,” Mendez said, “And music, art, comedy and ﬁ  lm are such a big part of that.”By Chase Granger
Avenue Writer
“When music, books, ﬁ  lm and comedy 
accompany movements, change happens.” 
That’s the motto of Changeville, a festi-
val celebrating music, ﬁ  lm and virtual real-ity to inspire positive social change.
The festival takes place Feb. 25 and 
26 at multiple venues across downtown Gainesville, including The Wooly, the High Dive Beer Garden, Market Street Pub, Hip-podrome State Theatre, and Volta Coffee, Tea and Chocolate.
“We want people to hear artists and wit-
ness ﬁ  lms that will move them,” said Briana Mendez, a UF public relations senior and 
music festival programmer for Changeville.
Tickets for the event can be purchased 
online at changeville.us. Advanced admis-
sion tickets are currently being sold for $31.59. Regular admission tickets will soon be offered for $37.92.
The festival is part of this year’s frank 
conference, an event sponsored by the UF’s College of Journalism and Communications 
to showcase public interest communicators 
who use strategic communications to drive change.
“With Changeville, we wanted to cre-
ate a destination that embraces music, ﬁ  lm and art media to drive change,” Mendez, 22, said.
The musicians, artists and local come-
dians who will showcase their talents at 
Changeville were selected based on their 
focus on current social issues, Mendez said.
“These talented people talk about a wide 
range of critical issues, but they do it all dif-ferently,” Mendez said.
Glory Days Presents is the music produc-
tion director for both the Frank Street Fair and Changeville.
Musical performers at Changeville will 
include Hurray for the Riff Raff, John Dar-nielle (of the Mountain Goats), Wax Wings, Flat Land, Il Gato and Tomboi.
Pat Lavery, the owner of Glory Days 
Presents and an exclusive promoter for High Dive, said he and the Changeville team were excited to book The Mountain Goats and Hurray for the Riff Raff because it is often difﬁ  cult for new festivals to get big, national acts to perform.
Lavery said the plan is for Changeville 
to build over the next couple of years into a much bigger event with even more ven-ues, with the purpose of bringing people to-gether who are interested in positive social change.
Domestic violence, gender discrimina-
tion, racial disparities, mental illness and poverty are all topics that will be touched 
on at Changeville, Mendez said. 
Mendez is proud of what she and a 
roughly 10-person team have been able to 
create in such a short period of time.
“We’ve built this from the ground up,” 
Mendez said. “We know next year and ev-ery year after that, Changeville is just going to continue to grow.”
The Changeville team has focused a lot 
of its efforts into social media campaigning 
for the event, Mendez said.
Jeremiah Corley, a journalism senior at 
UF and social media strategist for Chan-
geville, spent hours doing research and planning out his posts on the event’s Ins-tagram page.
“We wanted to make sure people knew 
what Changeville was solely through pic-tures,” Corley said. “We focused more on 
the images themselves than the captions.”
A strict theme of encouraging positive 
change was set with the social media so 
that it was consistent across all platforms, Corley, 21, said.
“Everyone knows that things need to 
change and things need to be happening,” Corley said. “Changeville is that catalyst for a giant social movement amongst this gen-
eration.”By Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
Two men took it upon them-
selves to support the local art 
scene when Central Florida Ofﬁ  ce Plus, a Gainesville arts-and-crafts supply store, closed down in 2014.
Celino Dimitroff approached 
Charley McWhorter to open a store geared toward art students and the local art community. Six months later, in February 2015, the two opened South Main Art Media Hub, McWhorter said.
This Saturday, SoMA Art Media 
Hub, located at 601 S. Main St., 
will celebrate its ﬁ  rst anniversary 
with food, music, vendors and door prizes. The event will be held in the SoMA Art Media Hub park-ing lot and will last from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.The Gainesville Arts Market 
and Gainesville Art Scene will host the event, according to the event 
page.
The Gainesville Arts Market 
is held every third Saturday of 
the month in the SoMA Art Me-dia Hub’s parking lot, McWhorter said. This month, the event will be larger than normal because it’s celebrating the store’s one-year an-niversary.
McWhorter and Dimitroff want-
ed to create a store catered to art-ists because they are both artists themselves. McWhorter said the store’s atmosphere was created to be open, well-lit and to have mate-rials easily viewable from all areas.
The store has seen its ups and 
downs during this ﬁ  rst year, but 
began to see growth once they 
began marketing to the local cli-entele.
“We’ve had a lot of great things 
happen to us as a small business,” 
McWhorter said.
The partnership between the 
Gainesville Arts Market and SoMA 
Art Media Hub has worked well for the store, he said.
“A lot of new artists come, and 
people discover us and people dis-cover the market,” he said. “It’s a win-win for both of us.”
Txong Moua, the director of 
the Gainesville Art Scene, created the Gainesville Art Scene as a blog in 2014, and it evolved into the Gainesville Arts Market.
The blog was started to offer a 
central location of creative events happening in Gainesville, the 32-year-old said.
“I didn’t see anything like that 
when I started it,” Moua said. “So, I think, since then, there has been a lot more things happening around town. So, that’s good.”
She said she offers a directory 
for local artists to join and features a local artist every month on her blog. She initially started the blog with a question-and-answer inter-view format with local artists.
The blog eventually developed 
into the market because a common theme among local artists was 
trying to ﬁ  nd a place to sell their 
work, she said.
Moua said the market offers all 
types of art, including paintings, food, jewelry and crafts.
Violeta Lizama, a 25-year-old 
Gainesville resident, is one of the artists who will be displaying her art at this month’s Gainesville Art 
Market. Lizama said she creates 
handmade clay ornaments and jewelry under her Purple Star Clay-ations business.
She works with polymer clay to 
create small works of art, which she said are distinguishable by their small size and her attention to detail.
Lizama’s creations typically sell 
between $3 and $10. However, she said she can create custom pieces, which have sold for up to $60.
Lizama will be premiering her 
art at the market this Saturday. She said she also sells her pieces online, but there is a high level of competition within that mar-ket. She hopes to reach more cus-tomers, especially in Gainesville, by showing her pieces at the Gainesville Arts Market.
“It’s easier to get the word out if 
people can see what you can do,” Lizama said.
GNV art-supply store celebrates anniversary with market
MUSIC
Bo Diddley Plaza to reopen with Changeville festival
Festival promotes social change Charles Bradley will perform
“With Changeville, we wanted to 
create a destination that embraces 
music, ilm and art media to drive 
change.”
Briana Mendez
UF public relations senior 
and music festival programmerTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
By Fabiana Otero
Avenue Writer
Graphic design students will 
get a leg up for the future with 
an upcoming event aimed at 
guiding them in a personalized 
direction toward success.
Ligature 25 starts Friday from 
5:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. and ends 
Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
It includes two guest speakers, a gallery reception, creative work-shops and portfolio reviews.
The event is the product of 
directors Esteban Arturo, 23, and Sidney Sue Howard, 22, both UF graphic design seniors. Both were given these positions 
through the club voxGraphis, 
which caters to students with a “love for graphic design and want to engage in an active de-sign community,” according to 
its website.
The event’s theme focuses on 
the ideation, process and end-
less iterations it takes to get to a 
ﬁ  nal product, according to Liga-
ture 25’s website.
Frankie Ratford, a designer 
and entrepreneur, and Will Bry-ant, an illustrator and designer, 
will lecture Friday from 5:30 
p.m. to 7:30 p.m. in Fine Arts Building B, Room 105.
Ratford, 32, is the director 
of her company, The Design Kids. Her company is devoted to bridging the gap between col-lege students and the graphic design industry. 
Ratford has been traveling to 
cities in Australia, New Zealand and the U.S. to interview pro-fessional graphic designers and 
communicate to colleges, design 
studios and creative businesses on how to transition into the in-dustry.
Ratford said she is currently 
road-tripping around the U.S. and Canada for 18 months in Sunny, an RV designed by Bry-ant.
In her lecture, Ratford will 
connect her purpose with The Design Kids and Ligature 25’s theme. 
Using the same principles 
and processes as a client or school brief, she will talk about gathering research, developing the work and executing the ﬁ  nal 
product, with a large focus on 
the journey as well as the end destination, Ratford said.
Bryant will be giving a brief 
overview of his own work be-
fore diving into advice for young 
designers.
“I will be talking about a 
range of topics including mak-
ing personal work, the impor-
tance of broadening your inﬂ  u-ences, empowering the role of the student, how to send a good 
email and ﬁ  nding your voice,” 
Bryant said.
The event will then transition 
into the Gary R. Libby Gallery in Fine Arts Building C from 8:30 
p.m. to 10 p.m. Friday. 
There will be 36 submitted 
art pieces on display, Ratford 
said.
Ratford and Bryant judged a 
competitive pool of 97 art pieces and selected 36 to be shown in the gallery, Ratford said. The judges will award titles to ﬁ  ve 
artists.
The submissions were mostly 
from UF graphic design students ranging from sophomores to 
graduates.
Ratford and Bryant will each 
lead a workshop of about 25 
graphic design students in Inﬁ  n-
ity Hall on Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., Ratford said.
In Ratford’s workshop, she 
plans to focus on student’s per-
sonal strengths, talking through 
20 possible jobs and brainstorm-ing what the design community in Gainesville could provide for 
each of them.
In Bryant’s workshop, he 
will be covering the differences 
between concept and variation through visual experiments. 
The group will “exercise the 
notion that iteration leads to discovery,” Bryant said.
UF alumni from all over the 
country, as well as the guest speakers, will be reviewing port-folios of students who signed up in advance.
UF alumna Natalie Suarez, 
24, currently works as a graphic designer for Rhyme & Reason Design. In 2014, she was presi-dent of voxGraphis and was 
involved in the production of 
Ligature 23.
“As a designer, it’s very im-
portant to constantly be talking about your work with others 
and how to make it better,” Su-
arez said, “so having a portfolio review by the guest designers or other alumni is so important in 
helping the students grow.”Speakers conduct 
design workshops
LOCAL
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
352walls has given down-
town Gainesville its latest touch. 
Now, the city is celebrating its 
improved walls with a ribbon-
cutting ceremony.
The ribbon cutting will take 
place from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Feb. 26 as part of Art Splash, a celebration of 352walls. 
Guests can participate in a 
large sing-a-long, creative activi-ties and a tour of the murals on the buildings surrounding Lot 10, located at 100 SW First Ave.
352walls is an art initiative to 
beautify Gainesville’s least pretty yet whimsical walls and buildings with hand-painted murals.
The project redevelops the ur-
ban area by adorning the build-ings with elements of interest in the art form and attracting peo-ple to businesses in downtown Gainesville. 
“We were looking at down-
town because it is the heart of town,” said Iryna Kanishcheva, curator of the 352walls project. 
“When people come here, it is the 
ﬁ  rst thing they see.” 
The contemporary, urban art 
project has educational means and many beneﬁ  ts, Kanishcheva said. It is also the ﬁ  rst interna-tional art project in Gainesville.
Kanishcheva began working 
on the art initiative by giving a presentation to Visit Gainesville and the City of Gainesville ex-plaining how beneﬁ  cial the proj-
ect would be to the city.
Originally from Ukraine, 
Kanischeva travels a lot seeing 
these kind of projects in the U.S. 
and Europe. 
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department has a number of ar-eas they oversee, and public art is 
one of them.
The cultural affairs department 
worked with the project coordina-
tion by doing day-to-day logistics 
of the project. 
Transporting the artists to the 
city, providing lodging, and get-
ting their equipment and supplies to the art site. 
“(The idea) came from the 
citizens of the community,” said cultural affairs interim manager Russell Etling. “This concept of 
using urban art as a vehicle for 
redevelopment of our communi-ty, economic development and a source of community pride.”
The goal of the project is to at-
tract visitors to Gainesville to see the murals and participate in the many things Gainesville has to of-fer, Etling said. But the project serves another 
purpose besides attracting visi-tors.
“Public art at its core uplifts 
the human spirit, and we feel like 
the project does that as well,” 
Etling said. 
The international artists who 
came to work on the project are 
recognized experts in the ﬁ  eld.
“They painted murals all 
around the world,” Etling said.
The artists are from countries 
like Ukraine, Argentina, Puerto Rico, Spain and Portugal. 
“It’s not just international art-
ists, but internationally famous 
and internationally acclaimed art-
ists,” Kanishcheva said.
Kanishcheva selected all the 
artists related to their experience, 
style and technique. 
“I chose artists who have 
followers and who can bring Gainesville attention,” Kanish-cheva said. “The artists all had to be internationally known.”
While 20 artists applied, only 
13 were selected. 
Half of the artists were region-
al artists and the other half were international. 
A few of the selected artists 
worked on collaborations and created a total of 10 murals. 
Now, the motto of the program 
is to experience the art.
“We like to encourage people 
to actually go out and see the walls,” Etling said. “Take a jour-ney.”Art Splash celebrates 352walls
THE DOCUMENTARY IS ABOUT
 CHARLES BRADLEY, WHO WILL 
REOPEN BO DIDDLEY PLAZA
By Morgan Miller
Avenue Writer
In preparation for Charles Bradley’s performance 
at the reopening of Bo Diddley Community Plaza, tonight High Dive will screen “Charles Bradley: Soul 
of America,” an award-winning documentary on 
Bradley’s life.
Doors will open at 6 p.m., and the show will be-
gin at 8 p.m. The event is free, but High Dive is ac-
cepting donations to help restore Gainesville’s Cot-
ton Club, an old venue where black jazz and blues musicians used to play in the ‘50s and ‘60s, when the city was segregated.
It is suggested that attendees come early, as the 
Cilantro Tacos food truck will be arriving at 6 p.m. There will also be open poetry and story readings by attendees and musicians from the Changeville festi-
val lineup. 
The readings will be about a time a person real-
ized he or she could make a difference in society or 
in life, and they will allow people to interact while supporting a local venue.
“We want to get his story out there. Charles is in 
his 60s, was born in Gainesville and was homeless for many years in NYC before releasing his ﬁ  rst al-bum on Daptone Records just a few years ago,” Pat Lavery, the executive promoter at High Dive, said. 
“It’s an American dream success story.”  
The featured ﬁ  lm, was ﬁ  rst shown at the South 
by Southwest ﬁ  lm festival in 2012. The documen-tary illustrates Bradley’s life as he struggled to be-come a renowned artist. He became successful after 
homelessness, tragedy and misfortune.
Bradley is a rhythm and blues and funk singer 
who propelled into fame at the age of 62. 
Fans adore his soulful music and the tenacity he 
displayed in his pursuit to become a successful mu-sician. 
The singer has been placed on top magazine lists 
such as GQ, Rolling Stone, SPIN 
and Mojo.
Bradley, now 67, has recently 
performed at popular music festi-
vals such as the Bonnaroo Music 
and Arts Festival, the  Coachella 
Valley Music and Arts Festival, the Newport Folk Festival and South by Southwest. 
High Dive’s event is being held to celebrate 
Charles Bradley performing at the reopening of Bo Diddley Plaza and the accompanying street fair. 
The plaza, located in downtown Gainesville, has 
been closed since March 2015 for renovations.
The street fair will be held Feb. 25 from 6 p.m. to 
10 p.m. and will be presented by frank, an annual conference that seeks to promote social change and inspire ideas in the community.
Art by 352Creates and local band performances 
will be featured at the fair. 
It will also have an assortment of food trucks and 
microbrew beer.
Bradley has released two albums, and his next 
album, titled “Changes,” will be released April 1. His music has been sampled by big name hip-hop artists such as Jay Z and Asher Roth.High Dive to screen documentary
“As a designer, it’s very 
important to constantly be 
talking about your work 
with others and how to 
make it better,” Suarez 
said, “so having a portfolio 
review by the guest 
designers or other alumni 
is so important in helping 
the students grow.”
Natalie Suarez
UF alumnaWill ofer tour of murals
Bradley
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Condo 1BR/1BA – 705 SQ.FT.Bike to UF or ride the bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018    2-18-5-5
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 10 For Sale 6 FurnishingsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
HIRING 20 DRIVERS
JOB FAIR THIS FRIDAY
Domino's 3311 W. Universtiy Ave. 2-4 p.m. Instant Interviews.     2-19-16-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Janitorial cleaner needed to service ar-
eas in morriston,williston,jonesville,and Gainesville... needs reliable transportation...weekly pay....call 352-214-0868 if interested   2-23-16-5-14
Servers Needed...Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St      2-24-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgPREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
14 Help Wanted 24 Pets 21 Entertainment 14 Help Wanted 16 Health ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's basketball 
team is hoping to end its losing streak tonight against Vanderbilt.Read the story on pg. 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF lacrosse player wins UF Senate seat
Florida lacrosse midfielder Carli Marsh took one of six College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences seats as an Impact Party candidate on Wednesday. Marsh received the fifth-most votes in the college with 1,033.By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Just over a month ago, the No. 10 
Florida lacrosse team was without Mollie 
Stevens when it played the U.S. National 
Team.
She was wearing the opposition’s jer-
sey.
In a game that was deadlocked at 5-5 
by halftime, the national team was able to 
pull away in the final 30 minutes of play to win 19-8, with Stevens scoring one of the 12 second-half goals for the U.S.
However, the junior midfielder will be 
wearing the same jersey as the rest of her collegiate teammates Thursday when the Gators play the Wales National Team at Donald R. Dizney Stadium at 4 p.m.
Florida coach Amanda O’Leary said that the Wales coach, who is a good friend of the UF coach, called her to set up a game since the national team is go-
ing to be in the state of Florida.
The Welsh side has 
played and lost two 
matches this week, first 
14-5 to Jacksonville on 
Monday and then 20-4 to Tampa on Wednesday.
Thursday’s game 
looks to be the tough-
est for Wales during its 
state tour.
The Gators started off the season with 
a convincing win over then-No. 13 Loyola 15-6 and then won their second game in 
resilient fashion, coming back from a def-icit to defeat Michigan 12-11.UF to face Wales National TeamLACROSSE
SEE LAX,  PAGE 19By Matt Brannon 
Sports Writer
Jacksonville came closer to beat-
ing No. 1 Florida than any team this year, and it didn’t even get a hit. 
The Gators (6-0) swept Jack-
sonville (3-3) in a doubleheader Wednesday after sophomore Aleshia Ocasio’s performance propelled her 
team to a 6-0 win in the first game. 
In the second game, Florida run-ruled the Dolphins 10-0 through five innings to remain undefeated. 
Maybe it was hitting the second 
batter of the game, but something clicked for Ocasio, who only let one runner reach base for the rest of game. She made the Gators’ first no-
hitter since 2014 look like a breeze, 
striking out seven batters in seven innings.
“We work our best in the bull-
pens, you know, that’s really where 
it starts,” Ocasio said. “Honestly, 
if we wouldn’t have our defense behind us, these no-hitters, these one-hitters, none of that would even 
count.”
But while Ocasio orchestrated the 
defense, the Gators’ offense came out flat in the first game. Florida failed to 
score in the first inning for the first time this season, as the Dolphins mirrored the Gators with strong de-fense. But Jacksonville’s play against 
Florida was unsustainable, and in 
the third inning, that mirror began Ocasio overwhelms Jacksonville, Gators sweep doubleheader
THE FLORIDA MEN'S TEAM SITS 
IN FIRST PLACE AFTER TWO 
DAYS OF COMPETITION. 
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Caeleb Dressel wasn't satisfied with 
breaking the Southeastern Conference, 
NCAA and American record in the 50-yard freestyle on Wednesday.
So he did it again.
At the SEC Championships, Dressel cre-
ated early buzz when he posted a 18.39-sec-
ond time in the 50-yard freestyle preliminar-ies. That time shattered the previous school, NCAA and U.S. Open records by at least .08 seconds. 
However, his newly achieved record would last just a few hours. In the 50-yard freestyle finals, Dressel broke his own record with a time of 18.23 seconds. 
"It's almost a little shocking to go as fast 
as Caeleb did," UF coach Gregg Troy said in a release. "We've done some good things in practice but I didn't expect him to go that fast."
Behind Dressel's record-setting perfor-
mance, the No. 5-ranked UF men’s swim-ming and diving finished the second day of the championship meet in first place with a score of 504, seven points ahead of second 
place Auburn. 
Meanwhile, the No. 9-ranked women’s 
team finished in fourth in the overall stand-
ings, with a score of 274. They currently trail 
overall leader Tennessee by 163.5 points. Dressel breaks records at SEC 
swimming championshipsJordan McPherson  / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio pitches in the first game of Florida's doubleheader against Jacksonville on Wednesday at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE SWIM,  PAGE 19Stevens
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
The tone in Amanda Butler’s voice con-
veyed palpable disappointment. 
“Auburn just outplayed us,” she said fol-
lowing her team’s season-worst 22-point loss 
to the Tigers on Sunday. “They were tougher 
than us.”
She echoed that sentiment on Monday, less 
than 24 hours removed from the letdown loss.
“Florida was just very short of being what 
Florida basketball is in a lot of areas,” Butler 
said.
And when it was suggested that the loss was 
one of Florida’s worst of the season, Butler was quick to interject.
“I think it was the worst. You can say that, 
it’s alright,” she said.
The loss came following another disappoint-
ing performance last Thursday at No. 2 South Carolina. However, Butler insisted that the loss to the Gamecocks didn’t have any demoralizing effects going into the game against Auburn.
“Each one of those games is an individual 
battle in and of itself that requires your best,” she said. “If we had done something amazing and played great and beaten South Carolina, we still could’ve had the same result (against 
Auburn).”
With No. 22 Florida (19-6, 7-5 Southeastern 
Conference) riding its ﬁ  rst losing streak of the 
season, Vanderbilt (15-10, 4-8 SEC) comes to the O’Connell Center tonight at 7. But as Butler implied, her team is still trying to take it one game at a time — losing streak or not.“We always try to focus on what’s coming 
next,” forward Haley Lorenzen said. “We don’t try to dwell on what’s happened in the past.”
Even if they’re not dwelling on it, it’s no se-
cret that the Gators will need to improve against the Commodores. 
Several of UF’s usual playmakers — namely 
Eleanna Christinaki and Simone Westbrook — have been shut down in its last two games. The duo has a combined for a total of 19 points over the two-game skid.
With those offensive struggles in mind, But-
ler and her staff tried to rectify the issues by making offensive execution the focus of Tues-day’s practice.
“We just addressed some of the issues that 
we had on the court, and it’s just been really good ever since,” Lorenzen said. 
While offense is what UF has struggled with 
in its last two games, it’s defense that could make the difference against Vanderbilt.
The Commodores’ greatest strength is their 
perimeter game, as their 36.1 three-point shoot-ing percentage is the fourth-best in the league. However, Vandy is ranked last or second to last in the three main defensive categories: re-bounds, blocks and steals. That makes tonight’s game ideal for Florida to return form on offense.
But following the two losses, Butler isn’t tak-
ing anything for granted.
“Vanderbilt is another team that’s gonna put 
you on your back if you don’t play well,” she said.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgGators look to end losing streakAFTER STRUGGLING EARLIER 
IN THE YEAR, THE GYMNASTICS 
SENIOR HAS IMPROVED.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Senior Bridgette Caquatto is rounding 
into form.
After a rocky start to her ﬁ  nal year as a 
competitor for the Florida gymnastics team, Caquatto has locked down her game, serv-
ing as a vital cog in the squad’s vault, un-
even bars and ﬂ  oor routine lineups.
And heading into a road meet against 
No. 19 Missouri this Friday, it couldn’t have come at a better time for the No. 2 Gators.
“I’ve been a little under the weather the 
ﬁ  rst six weeks,” Caquatto said, “and I’m starting to feel a lot better, which I’m really excited about because I know I can offer a 
lot more for the team and I want to be kind 
of the senior ﬁ  gure who’s there, who (my teammates) can always count on, kind of like I have been in the past.”
With the ﬁ  rst half of the season on the 
books, Florida ranks second in the nation in average score, a mere 0.170 points behind No. 1 Oklahoma.
In spite of bouts with the ﬂ  u and incon-
sistencies on the ﬂ  oor, Caquatto has been a factor in UF’s success, averaging 9.745 points per vault and 9.694 points per ﬂ  oor routine.
But her greatest contributions have come 
on the uneven bars. Competing in the event in each meet to date, Caquatto has posted a mean score of 9.879, earning four podium ﬁ  nishes in six tries.
“Now that I’m feeling better, I’m hav-
ing a little bit more power in my legs,” Ca-
quatto said.
“I’m excited to go out there and actually 
enjoy myself (rather) than trying to ﬁ  nd the 
energy to make it through a routine.”
If last week’s meet against Arkansas is 
any indication, her newfound health and rekindled excitement is beginning to pay dividends.
Debuting a new ﬂ  oor pass, the 2015 ﬁ  rst-
team All-America ﬂ  oor competitor posted a 9.825 against the Razorbacks, her second-highest mark on the year and a potential turning point for her fortunes.
“I’ve been having some issues with my 
legs, and so doing a double full-punch front is kind of hard when you don’t have full power in your legs,” Caquatto said. 
“So I came in with the mentality that I 
was going to go ahead and try a new tum-bling pass on ﬂ  oor, and it went OK.”
Back to ﬁ  ring on all cylinders, Caquatto 
has nowhere to go but up.
And with her prior experience, she’s 
ready for whatever the remaining campaign has to throw at her.
“I know I can improve it a lot, but I was 
happy to put it on my feet, put it out there 
and now I know for the future how to use 
my energy and technique while having a little bit of adrenaline to compete this week-
end,” she said.
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgCaquatto ﬁ  nding her footingWOMEN’S BASKETBALLto crack. 
Taylor Schwarz walked to start 
the inning and advanced to third on 
a Justine McLean single. McLean 
broke to steal second, and as the Jacksonville catcher tried to throw her out, Schwarz streaked home for 
the Gators' first run. 
Two batters later, freshman 
Amanda Lorenz hit a chopper past the outstretched arm of the short-
stop, driving in runners on second and third to give Florida a 3-0 edge. 
In the fourth inning, Schwarz hit 
a towering triple off the right-center 
wall. Within two batters she crossed 
the plate again on a Kirsti Merritt groundout. 
After the games, coach Tim Wal-
ton praised the bottom half of Flori-da's lineup.
“Look at the production we’re 
getting out of Janell Wheaton and Kayli Kvistad and Taylor Schwartz.” 
Walton said. “We’re getting a lot of 
RBIs, so I’m very pleased.”
Despite a brisk evening, Florida’s bats warmed up in the second game.  
The Gators jumped out to a 10-
run lead by the bottom of the third behind a barrage of big hits.
Sophomore Kayli Kvistad started 
the scoring with a two-run double. Florida continued to pour it on in the second inning when Amanda Lorenz stepped up to the plate with two outs and clobbered a two-run double over the center fielder’s head. 
Kvistad doubled later in the sec-
ond inning, driving in Taylore Fuller 
and Lorenz to put the Gators up 7-0. 
“I feel like pressure’s an option,” 
Kvistad said. “And we know that we 
work hard in practice for the game-like situations.”
In the second game, Kelly Barn-
hill nearly matched Ocasio’s effec-tiveness. In her third appearance, the freshman allowed only one hit, one 
walk and struck out nine.
Wednesday marked the first time 
Florida pitchers gave up a single hit 
in a doubleheader since Stephanie Brombacher and Stacey Nelson ac-
complished the feat in 2009. 
"Her stuff was the best I've seen 
it this year," Walton said of Barnhill. 
"She didn't do too much, didn't try 
to make too many adjustments, she 
just kind of let the ball move." 
Next, Florida will face UAB and 
Stephen F. Austin in Orlando on Fri-day in a doubleheader beginning at 
3:30 p.m.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@ufl.edu THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
O’Leary said there are some new 
schemes that she wants to put in place 
and feels that doing so in a non-intra-squad practice will be beneficial. 
“As many games as we can get in 
would be good for our program,” O’Leary 
said.
The hiatus from the regular season 
schedule will be the last the Gators will 
get all season.
After Thursday’s match, Florida will 
begin a monthlong stretch that includes four opponents ranked in the nation’s top 10. 
UF will play No. 2 North Carolina on 
Thursday, followed by No. 3 Syracuse, No. 8 Stony Brook and top-ranked Mary-land.
One week after the Maryland game, the 
Gators will start their Big East schedule against Vanderbilt at home on March 26.
Despite the daunting road, O’Leary 
and her team are focusing on what is next — a match against a tough opposing side in the Wales National Team. 
“It’s going to be a great test for us,” 
O’Leary said.
“And one that I am certainly looking 
forward to.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgUF will face No. 2 North Carolina next
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF's Mollie Stevens attempts to make a play on the ball during Florida's 12-11 win 
over Michigan on Saturday. 
LAX,  from pg 17Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel touches the wall during the Florida men's team's loss to Auburn on Jan. 23. 
SOFTBALL,  from pg 17Florida's one-hit doubleheader was first for Gators since 2009
While Dressel has indisputably been the 
best overall swimmer on the UF men’s team, 
with seven more individual victories than the next-best UF swimmer this season, his talent also translated into the relays. 
In the only relay event of the evening 
— the 200-yard freestyle — Dressel, senior Corey Main, sophomore Mark Szaranek, and junior Jack Blyzinskyj defeated No. 6 Auburn by 0.17 seconds with a time of 1:16.46. 
The UF men’s team won three of their five 
events on Wednesday. Senior Pawel Werner captured a victory in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 4:13.31, while teammate ju-
nior Mitch D’Arrigo (4:13.92) finished third. 
Sophomore Jan Switkowski, competing in his third overall event of the SEC meet, placed second in the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 1:42.55, 0.34 seconds behind Auburn’s Joe Patching’s 1:42.21.
Meanwhile, the women’s team regressed 
in the pool on Wednesday. 
The Gators failed to capture a victory in 
their four scheduled events. The team was also unsuccessful in capturing a single po-dium spot Wednesday evening.
Seniors Jessica Thielman and Natalie 
Hinds, two of UF’s top female swimmers, each captured the highest finish for the Gators on Wednesday night, placing fourth in the 500-yard freestyle and 50-yard free-
style, respectively. 
In their lone relay race of the evening — 
the 200-yard freestyle relay — the Gators 
finished a disappointing sixth place, 2.61 seconds behind first place No. 13 Tennessee. 
Day three of the SEC championship starts 
today at 10 a.m., beginning with the wom-en’s 400-IM preliminaries. 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org SWIM,  from pg 17The women's team is in fourthJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
T aylor Schwarz slides into third base for a triple during Florida's game one win over Jacksonville on 
Wednesday as Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
“As many games as we can get in 
would be good for our program.”
Amanda O’Leary
UF coach20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016
