We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 82 FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
Bulldog beatdown
Poor shooting dooms UF women’s 
basketball in loss to Georgia, pg. 13
Cold weather shelter program houses homeless
It closes when temperatures rise above 45 degrees, pg.3
911 report
Murder, attempted murder, burglars and grand theft, pg. 5Check out our photo story
Students, faculty and community members  celebrate Asian culture at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art, pg. 9
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
THE AMAZING RACE
The Untouchables team runs up the bleachers in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium during the Fruved-Mazing Race 
on Thursday. T eams raced around campus, some dressed in fruit costumes, to complete challenges at 10 stations and win a pair of Beats by Dre Solo2 headphones for each member of the winning team.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
@merylkornﬁ  eld
Six years ago, Iryna Kanishcheva knew 
nothing about street art.
She studied business and pharmaceutical 
sciences, unaware of the murals she would 
soon come to love after traveling Europe.After moving from Ukraine to the U.S. 
three years ago, she wanted to share her new-found passion with the residents of her new hometown: Gainesville.
Kanishcheva later submitted a proposal 
for 352walls, a project to expand urban art in and around downtown Gainesville.
Each artist, she said, is bringing his or her 
own styles — developed in countries around the world — to Gainesville.
Along with cities like Miami and Balti-
more, artists involved in the project traveled from Argentina, Puerto Rico, Spain, Ukraine and elsewhere.
“I wanted to bring this kind of art in 
Gainesville because we didn’t have this be-fore,” Kanishcheva said. “I wanted to bring this kind of culture and bring economic de-velopment.”
Russell Etling, the cultural affairs manager 
for the Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cul-tural Affairs Department, said he loved the idea.
He said the murals have already advanced 
their plan to make Gainesville a cultural des-tination.
“We are receiving feedback from people 
who visited or extended their stay because of the murals,” he said.
Kanishcheva met each artist on her trav-
els, and now they’ve reunited to create mu-rals that represent the city.
“I selected the international artists because 
I tried to choose the best and most relevant Muralists bring color and style to Gainesville
K CAMP WILL BE THE 
OPENING ACT.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg 
Wiz Khalifa will perform at the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center in honor of Black History Month. 
The concert will be held Feb. 11 
at 7:30 p.m., said Bobby Finigan, 
the chairman of Student Govern-
ment Productions. K Camp will be the opening act. Khalifa and K Camp will be paid together $153,500, Fini-gan said. He said 
SGP partnered 
with the Black 
Student Union to bring Khalifa 
and K Camp to UF to draw atten-tion to Black History Month. 
“People just know his music 
and know his background,” he said. UF biology junior Danielle 
Kleinberg said she is excited for Khalifa to come to UF.  
“It’s an experience in itself 
to see Wiz Khalifa perform,” the 21-year-old said. 
Students with Gator 1 Cards can 
buy tickets starting at noon Tues-day at the O’Connell Center box of-ﬁ  ce. Tickets will be available to the general public online or in person at noon Thursday. Student tickets start at $10, and tickets for the gen-eral public start at $20. Wiz Khalifa to perform at UFHEALTH
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
After ceasing to perform pedi-
atric liver transplant procedures, the UF Health Shands Transplant Center has partnered with a Miami hospital to transfer patients.
UF Health is working with the 
Miami Transplant Institute at Jack-son Health System in Miami to help children who need pediatric liver transplants, wrote Rossana Passaniti, the media relations coor-dinator for UF Health, in an email. The center will continue to deter-mine which patients are eligible for 
the transplants, refer them to MTI 
and continue to offer treatment af-ter patients’ transplants.     
The center stopped offering 
transplants Sept. 1 due to the low number of surgeries performed in the last few years, Passaniti said. 
“We’re helping them transfer to 
the MTI waiting list, should they be 
willing to take them on,” she said. 
“Both transplant teams will do all they can so these families experi-ence the best possible transition.”   
She said the center has aver-
aged three pediatric liver trans-plants each year for several years. The center has redirected its efforts toward other procedures, she said.
“We continue to care for chil-
dren with complex liver condi-tions,” Passaniti said. “This in-cludes about 100 children who receive post-liver transplant sup-port at UF Health.”
Cheston Cozlowski’s infant son 
received a liver transplant eight years ago, she said. To get him the transplant, she drove from Jack-sonville to Miami after she got a phone call at 2 a.m. telling her to bring her son to MTI.
Her son, Andrew, was born 
with biliary atresia, a rare liver and bile duct disease that blocks bile ﬂ  ow from the liver to the gallblad-der, damaging liver cells in the pro-
cess, she said. She said the disease 
affects one in 150,000 births. 
Andrew was registered on the 
organ donor list when he turned 1, she said. He was on the list for about one month before receiving the life-saving liver. 
Cozlowski, 38, said when she 
was deciding where to take her 
son for surgery, she had to choose 
between eight transplant centers, including UF Health.
After researching the differ-
ent centers, Cozlowski brought Andrew to Miami. She said the Shands works with 
Miami hospital to aid in liver transplants
SEE LIVER,  PAGE 4SEE MURALS,  PAGE 8
Wiz Khalifa
It’s part of an urban art project
“W e continue to care for 
children with complex liver 
conditions.”
Rossana Passaniti  
Media relations coordinator for 
UF HealthSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Family Movie Day
The Reitz Union will host 
Family Movie Day for UF grad-uate students and their families Saturday starting at 1 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The event will feature free popcorn, crafts and coloring for kids at 1 p.m. and “The Peanuts Movie” at 2 p.m., hosted by Reitz Union Board Entertainment.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
In the story "Adrian Hayes-Santos holds fundraiser" published Jan. 13, the age of Hayes-Santos 31-years-old. The Alligator reported otherwise.
In the story "UF students final-
ists in Disney competion" the top three place teams will be 
awarded cash prizes, and an 
additional $1,000 grant will be awarded to the first place team. The Alligator reported other-wise.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 82
HIGH  72° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Three UF graduate students were 
chosen among hundreds to display 
their ceramic sculptures nationally.
The sculptures, which include a 
cat, a rat and elephants, will be on 
exhibit March 4 in Kansas City, Mis-
souri. The students’ work will be featured at the National Council on Education for the Ceramic Arts’ 2016 National Student Juried Exhibition.
Out of the 229 artists who sub-
mitted pieces, 61 pieces were ac-cepted between 66 artists, said Char-ity White, a UF ceramics third-year 
graduate student.
White, 29, said her sculpture, 
“Self Portrait,” reflects her two dif-ferent identities. When she lived in 
Chicago, she said she encountered a lot of rats on the street. Now that she lives in Gainesville, she finds herself surrounded by stray cats. Her sculp-ture, which features a cat and rat on a table, combines the two pests.
“It draws you in with the cute-
ness, but then some people get un-comfortable with the bloated bel-lies,” she said. 
She said she usually creates life-
sized human figures, which take two months to sculpt. But her 4-foot sculpture took White about a month to create.
Ariel Bowman, a 26-year-old UF 
ceramics first-year graduate student, had two animal sculptures accepted: A Colossal Collapse and Big Bingo: The Biggest Brute that Breathes. 
The first is a stack of five ele-
phants, and the second is a rhinoc-eros. Her sculptures took her three months to build.
However, the last ceramic piece 
accepted into the program from UF is 
not an animal.
UF ceramics third-year graduate 
student Adrienne Eliades’ piece Fam-
ily Style Server is a functional serv-ing dish that carries smaller dishes inside.
“It facilitates family-style eating 
and nurturing through sharing food,” the 29-year-old said.
Although Eliades has been to the 
exhibition before, this will be the first time her work will be displayed, she said.
“It’s really exciting for them to be 
able to see my work and for me to contribute back to the ceramics com-munity,” White said.FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ariel Bowman, a UF ceramics graduate student, works on her ce-
ramic piece, “A Colossal Collapse, ” which was selected by the Na-tional Council on Education for Ceramic Arts for its 2016 National Student Juried Exhibition. 
Students’ animal sculptures to be displayed in exhibitionCAMPUS
By Lee Nielsen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF construction students will bring their 
own mock company to compete against 35 
schools in a national management competi-tion.
UF’s College of Design, Construction and 
Planning is set to compete Tuesday at the Las Vegas Convention Center. The schools tasked students with creating the mock company in September. 
During the annual Residential Construction 
Management Competition, universities from throughout the nation will present their plans. Last year, UF’s student division of the National Association of Home Builders placed third.
UF hired Richard Smailes, an M. E. Rinker, 
Sr. School of Construction Management senior lecturer and the team’s faculty adviser, in 2004, and he became involved with the competition soon after. He said construction management and interior design students rarely work to-gether, and this competition bridges the gap.
“The whole point is when students leave 
school, they will all end up working together, 
so it is nice that at a student level they are able to see the other students’ point of views and 
where they are coming from,” Smailes said.
Austin Anderson, a 23-year-old construc-
tion management senior, is the team’s project manager.
“We have been doing things that our class-
es haven’t taught us and have been able to work together as a group to learn completely new concepts,” Anderson said.
While Anderson looks forward to using his 
newfound skills in the future, he’s keeping his mind on the competition.
“I can’t wait for all our hard work to pay 
off, and I am thrilled to be able to represent the Rinker School of Construction Management along with my fellow classmates,” Anderson said.UF construction takes Vegas
IT CLOSES WHEN TEMPERATURES 
RISE ABOVE 45 DEGREES.
By Catalina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville’s Cold Night Shelter Program’s 
admission acceptance ended Wednesday after temperatures rose.
The program opened Sunday and offered 
Gainesville’s homeless residents shelter, 
breakfast and blankets for four days. The shel-
ters, situated at St. Francis House and Grace Marketplace, close when temperatures rise above 45 degrees.
To prepare for these nights, volunteers 
stored mats and cleared rooms for extra space at St. Francis House, said John Miller, a staff member at St. Francis House. William Deiten-beck, the case manager for St. Francis House, 
said they try to see how many people can fit on 
the floor with cots and mattresses.
During the four days, 169 people stayed at 
St. Francis House, he said. The shelter holds as many people as it can.
“It is unfortunate that there are no more 
facilities,” Deitenbeck said. “But we manage with what we have.”
At Grace Marketplace, people slept on the 
chapel pews and on the floor, said Theresa Lowe, the executive director of the Alachua County Coalition for the Homeless and Hun-gry.
“There is no max for the CNS Program,” 
Lowe said. “We open up extra buildings, and we haven’t run out of space yet.”
She said about 18 people stayed the first 
night, and about 30 people stayed each night after. Harvey Elmore, who stayed at St. Francis House on Wednesday, said he’s been home-less for about four years.
Elmore, 56, said it is “somewhat of a palace 
for me.”  
Ramime Dehgan, 50, said he’s been home-
less for about 15 years. He doesn’t like to stay in shelters but was forced to Wednesday when temperatures dropped.  
“Sometimes it’s nice to feel taken care of,” 
he said.Cold weather shelter 
program houses homeless
They’re ceramic sculptures“The whole point is when students 
leave school, they will all end up 
working together, so it is nice that 
at a student level they are able to see 
the other students’ point of views and 
where they are coming from.”
Richard Smailes
Senior lecturer4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
THE ROOF WILL COST 
$1.2 MILLION.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
UF’s College of Music will get a new roof 
this year.
The roof is currently being designed and 
will cost $1.2 million, said UF spokeswoman 
Janine Sikes. After the roof is replaced, UF 
hopes to fix the building’s air conditioning 
and the heating, venting and cooling system.
The building’s open roof allows weather 
to damage instruments and the building. Sikes said UF is listening to students’ con-cerns.
“There were some concerns about safety, 
and we’ve absolutely addressed those,” she said.
Last semester, UF added hand railings to 
the staircases for the safety of students and faculty, she said. The music building is No. 18 on the list for state funding priority, and there’s no current date set as to when UF can completely renovate the building.“If we have to wait on state funds, it can 
take many years,” Sikes said. 
Unless a donor comes up with a donation 
to the school, the process will take time, she said.
For the last four years, Rachelle Strang 
has called the music building home. 
The 21-year-old UF music history senior 
has class there almost every day, but she said she barely noticed the handrails were added. Throughout her time at UF, she said she hasn’t seen the building’s poor condition change.
Strang said she’s never been concerned 
for her safety, but the architecture of the building isn’t ideal for the instruments. She 
said she worries about instruments being in 
a space exposed to the elements.
Strang said she was glad the roof is being 
replaced.
“If they can actually do some renovations, 
it’d be nice for future students,” she said. “I mean, my time’s up, but I like this building. It was home for four years, but I just wish it could be more improved.”
Sikes said UF will continue to advocate 
for the state funding to renovate the build-ings.New roof, new year: Renovations begin at College of Music
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Pictured are the handrails installed in UF’s College of Music building last semester to address 
safety concerns of students and faculty. The handrails are part of an ongoing effort to im-prove the building, which will receive a $1.2 million roof renovation sometime this year.
surgeons in Miami had performed the largest 
number of successful transplants.
“I love UF, and I love Shands,” she said. 
“It just so happened that Miami had the best 
success rate.”
Cozlowski said she was not surprised to 
hear UF Health will no longer offer pediatric 
liver transplants.
Although she did not take her son to Shands 
for treatment, she said she was happy with the hospital and the organ transplant system as a whole.
“It gave my kid a second chance at life,” 
Cozlowski said.LIVER,  from pg 1Shands stopped 
transplants in SeptemberHunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
The Human Rights Council of 
North Central Florida endorsed 
2016 mayoral candidate Lauren 
Poe and District 4 Commission 
candidate Adrian Hayes-Santos on Thursday.
The HRCNCF made the an-
nouncement following a candi-dates forum hosted by the council and the Alachua County branch of the NAACP on Jan. 11.
It was hosted at the Commu-
nity Pride Center of North Central Florida as the first forum of the 2016 city elections.
Candidates discussed their po-
sitions on same-sex marriage, LG-
BTQ+ rights and diversity, which 
both Poe and Hayes-Santos sup-ported.
“Both Poe and Hayes-Santos 
have taken clear stands for fair-
ness and equality,” HRCNCF 
President Bob Karp wrote in a 
press release. “Lauren Poe has a proven track record of support and advocacy on LGBT issues, 
which sharply contrasts with the 
current mayor’s record.”
Hayes-Santos said he was hon-
ored to receive the endorsement.
“They stand for diversity, LG-
BTQ rights, equality; and those are things I stand for as well and things I’m going to push for 
on the City Commission,” said 
Hayes-Santos, the program direc-tor of the entrepreneurship mas-ter’s program at UF.
“I fully believe Gainesville 
should be known for its equality and diversity,” he added.
Poe said he was thrilled.“They’re a great organization 
that’s done a lot of great work in our community for a long time,” Poe said. “I just really respect what they’ve done in Gainesville and Alachua County, and sort 
of put us on the leading edge of 
equality issues that have gone na-tional. So it really means a lot to me that they have confidence in 
my ability to lead the city.”Candidates endorsed by Human Rights Council
THE BOARD WOULD 
MANAGE GRU.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Gainesville’s Regional Utilities Committee 
discussed Thursday a bill in the Florida Leg-
islature and a city charter amendment, both of which could create separate but nearly identical boards with authority over GRU.
Earlier this week, a bill by State Rep. 
Keith Perry was filed in the Florida House to create a board that takes full control over GRU from the City Commission.
“The City Commission is responsible for 
a wide variety of issues,” Perry said Thurs-day.
Because of the commission’s huge re-
sponsibility of managing city issues, Perry 
said the goal of his bill is to create a board focusing solely on management of GRU.
The bill is unpopular with the utilities 
committee, which is drafting a city charter 
amendment asking voters if they support the creation of a board nearly identical to the one proposed by Perry.
During Thursday’s meeting, the com-
mittee voted to address its concerns about Perry’s bill at the City Commission next Thursday. The commission will also vote on its stance on the bill.
Commissioner Craig Carter said the com-
mission previously voted to stand down, but now that the final bill is filed in the Legisla-ture, he wants the commission to re-evaluate its position.
Commissioner Helen Warren said the city 
commission should create such an authority board, not Perry.
“We need to be driving this car,” she 
said. “This is our lane. It’s not his lane.”
If passed, Perry’s bill will ask on the 
March 2017 ballot whether voters support the creation of a five-member board with full control over GRU. The board would be free 
of control from the City Commission.
“This bill doesn’t really change the struc-
ture at all of GRU or even how it’s man-
aged,” Perry said. “What it does is just puts this level of authority between the city com-mission and GRU.”
The committee’s proposed charter 
amendment could raise complications for voters and the city.
No date has been set on when to propose 
the charter amendment, meaning it could also be placed on the March 2017 ballot.
In such a case, assuming Perry’s bill is 
passed, voters would be presented with the option to vote on two nearly identical boards.Committee discusses board to oversee GRUCANDIDATE PLATFORMS It followed a forum Jan. 11
“The city commission is responsible for 
a wide variety of issues.”
Keith Perry
State representative
Adrian Hayes-Santos
District 4 candidate
• Protect neighborhoods
• Promote an economically 
 vibrant downtown  
• Preserve local natural environmentLauren Poe
Mayoral candidate
• Work to fully fund and implement the Parks and Recreation Master Plan and continue work on 352ArtsRoadmap
• Expand youth and children programs
• Build a transportation system that is more 
effective and safe for everyone  Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man and woman Wednesday 
afternoon after police said they stole about $400 dollars worth of jewelry and clothes from their neighbors in 
December.
At about 4 p.m. Dec. 14, Lorne 
Jeffrey Singletary, 18, acted as a look-
out while two friends burglarized his neighbors in the 5000 block of SW 13th Place, according to the report.
When one of his neighbors came 
home, Singletary walked back into his own apartment. Five minutes lat-
er, the neighbor noticed two people 
leave Singletary’s apartment, accord-ing to the report. The neighbor noticed her bed-
room door was locked, which she had left unlocked, and her $200 
Michael Kors watch was miss-
ing. Her window 
was open and the window screen was pushed out, 
according to the report. 
When the 
neighbor’s room-
mates came home, they said some-
body stole jewelry, shoes and make-
up from their rooms, according to the report.On Wednesday, during an inter-
view with police, Singletary said he burglarized the neighbors’ apartment with the help of his friend, Nahja White, 18, who lives downstairs. 
Singletary said they used a master 
key left in his friend’s apartment by a maintenance worker, according to the report. Police arrested Singletary and White on Wednesday on charges of grand theft and larceny.
Authorities took them to the Ala-
chua County Jail where Singletary was released Thursday on a $22,000 
bond. As of press time, White re-
mains in jail.  
- Martin VassoloGainesville Police charged a lo-
cal man Wednesday morning after police said he broke into a woman’s apartment and stole $1,000 worth of electronics earlier in the month. 
At about 10 a.m. on Jan. 1, 
Chance Franklin, 21, was in the apartment when the woman came back from a vacation, according to the report. Franklin and his friends 
then jumped out of her second-story 
window.
When the woman walked into 
her apartment, located in the 400 block of SE 24th Street, she found Franklin and a 17-year-old boy in-side, according to the report. The woman noticed her home strongly 
smelled like marijuana, and all of 
her electronics were gone.
Once outside, 
she asked Frank-lin to return her property, and he then walked to the side of the 
building to re-
trieve her belong-
ings from a duffel bag, according to 
the report.
Franklin returned about $1,000 
worth of gaming systems, laptops and DVD players, but the woman said some of her belongings were 
still missing, according to the report. 
During police questioning, Frank-
lin said two of his friends, both 17, 
originally broke into the apartment. 
One of the boys told police they 
wanted to use the apartment to hang out and smoke weed, according to the report. 
Franklin, already in the Alachua 
County Jail for giving false identi-ﬁ  cation to an ofﬁ  cer, was charged with grand theft and burglary. His bond was raised to $30,000.  
- Martin VassoloAlachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputies arrested a local man for at-tempted murder Tuesday after au-thorities said he took part in a shoot-ing Monday morning.
At about 1 a.m. Monday, Faheem 
Sharod Ringgold, 22, picked up three 
passengers and drove to meet the 
man, according to a police report.
One of the passengers called the 
man and arranged to meet him in the 1500 block of SW 175th Ave. on Archer, according to the report.
When they arrived, two passen-
gers got out and walked to his car. One of passengers pulled out a gun 
and shot the man in his chest from about 10 feet away, according to the 
report.
The man tried to drive away but 
lost consciousness and crashed, ac-cording to the re-
port.
Deputies later 
found the man in his car, where he was missing a wallet, shoes and pants.
Shortly after, deputies spotted the 
car and pulled it over. The three pas-sengers ran away, and authorities 
found the man’s wallet and bloody clothes inside the car, according to 
the report.
In their investigation, deputies 
discovered the car was stolen by Ringgold, who told authorities he drove to meet the man and then drove away after the shooting, ac-
cording to the report.
Deputies arrested Ringgold on 
charges of attempted murder, rob-
bery with a ﬁ  rearm and grand theft.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $375,000 bond. 
- Martin Vassolo Five years after the murder of 
Jeremy Meldau, a suspect will stand trial.
On Monday, a grand jury indict-
ed Gainesville resident Raymond A. Proﬁ  t, 26, for ﬁ  rst-degree murder, 
said Gainesville Police spokesman 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
Proﬁ  t is suspected of killing 
Meldau, a former Gainesville resi-dent, in 2011, Tobias said.
He announced the indictment 
Thursday morning in a press release. The case is currently being investi-gated by the 8th Judicial Circuit State 
Attorney’s ofﬁ  ce. And while the case 
won’t bring Meldau back, it may help his family heal, Tobias said.
“It’s closure,” he said. “It’s know-
ing that the person that killed their 
family member will never be able to kill again.”
On March 29, 
2011, GPD re-sponded to the 
fatal shooting just south of campus, near the intersec-tion of Archer 
Road and Southwest 34th Street. They suspected Proﬁ  t murdered 
Meldau during a robbery, according 
to the release.Over the years, investigators with 
GPD’s Criminal Investigations Divi-sion kept a tab on Proﬁ  t and inter-viewed multiple witnesses, Tobias said.
“Each person had a different piece 
of the puzzle,” he said.
GPD is currently investigating 31 
other unsolved cases dating back to 1974, said Martin Honeycutt, a cold case detective. He said all he thinks about during an investigation is the victim’s family, who suffer a “big hole in their lives.”
“We do it for the family,” he said.
- Martin VassoloFRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Proﬁ  t
Ringgold
Franklin
Singletary
 Police arrest local man for attempted murder
  Police: woman inds three men in her home
Police: Burglars use master key to steal Grand jury indicts local man in 2011 murderThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWe’re not going to lie to you readers of the finest news-
paper collegiate journalism has to offer: It’s been a pretty 
godawful, downcast week. 
Yes, we know “Darts & Laurels” is supposed to take the 
good and the bad in equal measure, but we’d be lying to both you and ourselves if we wrote about anything BUT how miserable these past five days have been. 
So yes, we’re going to be complaining today… a lot. 
More on edge than Larry David in an uncomfortable situa-tion, just as cranky as the two Muppets who sit in the bal-cony and heckle other Muppets (we know their names are Statler and Waldorf, but who’s to say for our readership), 
here’s this week’s… 
Darts & Laurels
Death: It happens to the best of us... literally. It was 
painful enough that David Bowie shed his mortal coil Sun-
day; hell, if you want to go back slightly further, we’re still 
reeling from Lemmy Kilmister’s death only a few weeks 
ago. 
So when news of Alan Rickman’s passing reached our 
ears and eyes Thursday, it began to seem gratuitous on the 
part of death’s invisible hand.
After the world sighed a collective groan of grief at Bow-
ie’s passing, the following tweet made the rounds across 
social media: “Thinking about how we mourn artists we’ve never met. We don’t cry because we knew them, we cry 
because they helped us know ourselves.”
We don’t know whether there are already coffee table 
books for tweets the way there are proverbs, but we’d like 
to propose this tweet be included in such a text. 
All praise aside, this isn’t the only reason celebrity 
deaths affect us so hard: Celebrities are markers, signifies of a specific time and place. 
They’re comforting, familiar and reliable in a way our 
own friends and family often cannot be. When a celebrity 
passes away, so too does an immediately identifiable time 
of our lives.
For acting in a blasé fashion and taking too much, too 
soon from the world, Death gets a Dart. We don’t feel like 
offering a rejoinder this week. But regardless of Rickman’s 
passing, he will always have a place in our hearts. Always.
To invoke a celebrity who thankfully has yet to pass, 
“What’s the deal with Florida weather?” You wake up in 
the morning and it’s below 40 degrees, but by 1 p.m., it’s 
50 degrees and you’re wearing a peacoat! *insert studio 
laughter*
But seriously, the weather has been abysmal. Dart.
There are still people spoiling “Star Wars: The Force 
Awakens.” Dart. Seriously, don’t be that person. You 
wouldn’t like it if someone spoiled something for you, so 
don’t do it to others. Plus, that just makes you a giant jerk. 
Don’t do it.
In France, Jewish civilians have been advised to refrain 
from wearing a yarmulke following an ISIS-inspired attack 
on a Jewish school teacher in Marseille. 
We honestly don’t know where to start with this one, 
which means there will probably be an editorial about it 
next week. 
Until then, we’re giving anti-Semitism and radical Islam 
proud, kippah-wearing Darts.CWC leaves much to be desired for students
I suffer from generalized anxiety disorder and 
depression. I’m not ashamed of it, and I don’t let it define me. I’ve done as much as I can to educate myself on my illnesses so I’m properly equipped to keep them managed as 
much as possible. However, there are times when it feels like I’m losing the battle, and that’s when I seek outside help.
I have doctors in my hometown, but these 
past few months led me to realize I needed to seek help in Gainesville as well. My depression worsened, and I knew I needed to change my medication from an anxiety-only type to one that treats both.
With a limited insurance plan, my only options for psy-
chiatrists in Gainesville were through UF Health and the Counseling and Wellness Center. My first attempt was with the latter. I made a “triage” appointment — a manda-tory step — which is essentially an unnecessary step to be “evaluated” before being seen by a psychiatrist. After that appointment, I was told by the doctor it would take three weeks to a month to get an actual appointment. She even told me to skip class if I had to, because that’s how hard it was to get in. The appointment time didn’t work because 
I had to go out of town when it was scheduled, so I put 
it on hold until after the holidays. Over break, however, it became apparent my depression was escalating and I’d need to see someone on a consistent basis in Gainesville.
That’s the thing about mental illness: One morning you 
can wake up feeling exponentially worse than the day be-fore without any explanation.  
I returned to Gainesville two weeks ago and began an 
even more exhausting and hopeless attempt to see a psy-
chiatrist. I called UF Health, and I was told the earliest I’d be 
seen was in two months. I then tried to find a doctor outside of the UF network, but they either didn’t take my insurance or any insurance, meaning I’d have to spend money I didn’t have.
After I called, my sister was told if my psychiatrist at 
home faxed over an emergency referral and I called a specif-ic number, they would see me. When I called, they told me they “weren’t currently taking outside referrals,” and “my request would most likely be denied.” I was treated like someone trying to get into an ex-clusive club, not someone who desperately need-ed to see a doctor. The problem isn’t that mental 
illnesses aren’t deemed as important or as serious 
as physical ailments, but that they aren’t as well understood. It isn’t black and white. It isn’t just being suicidal or not. There’s much more to men-tal illness, and every type should be treated with the same care and attention.
Desperate, I tweeted @UF my frustrations, 
and they told me to email umatter@ufl.edu. I was put in touch with a woman at the UF Dean of Students Office, and 
she was the first person who understood my frustrations 
and finally helped me to get an appointment.
I’m honestly shocked that on a college campus of more 
than 50,000 students, mental illness isn’t taken more seri-ously. It needs to be treated immediately when someone reaches out, not two months later when the symptoms have snowballed. Spending every day struggling to get out of bed, to socialize, to have any sort of motivation whatsoever, is draining. Just because someone seems to be fine on the sur-
face doesn’t mean on the inside they’re not desperately try-
ing to stay above water. It’s a daily fight — one that needs proper care, not a two-month wait period. What about peo-ple who need even more help than I did? How will they ever get the treatment they need when it’s so hard to just make an appointment?
Not only is there a stigma around mental illness in soci-
ety, but there is also a huge problem in our schools and uni-versities. Students shouldn’t feel alone and hopeless; they 
should feel cared for and understood. Until we start treat-
ing mental illness with the same regard as physical illness, many college students will continue to suffer due to lack of care and poor understanding of their illness. For a university that claims, “U Matter, We Care,” I was stunned at how frustratingly untrue that statement felt.
Kaitlin Milligan is a UF telecommunication junior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kaitlin 
Milligan
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
The atmosphere on the 
ﬁ  rst day of a big lecture class, at least before 
the professor arrives, is 
something akin to a rock 
concert that’s going to immedi-ately sour. Everyone has some 
semblance of a clue as to why 
they’re there, but no one has an idea of what this event — the performance of entertaining the attention of as many as 600 students — is really go-
ing to be like.
Now, there’s an inverse relationship 
between how quiet a room is and how 
nervous a group of relative strangers in it 
is, so lecture halls are fairly loud at this 
point — some of it is old friends catch-ing up, other conversations are small talk, but most people are whining. Trepidation gives way to chatter, but chatter ﬁ  nally 
gives way to the professor's entrance.
And unlike a concert, few people are ex-
cited when the host arrives. The go-getters, 
the future yuppies, the kids on pre-wealth 
tracks are fervently taking notes and roll-
ing their eyes at anyone asking a question; the kids taking this course to ﬁ  ll a general education requirement are shamelessly on their computers; if I was in this imagined 
lecture, I’d probably be daydreaming and 
missing — as if selectively — every impor-tant detail on the syllabus. But at the cen-ter of this mass student frenzy is someone 
who didn’t completely sign up for this.
I distinctly remember my third-grade 
teacher telling my class of 8-year-olds why 
she was so intent on us learning our mul-tiplication tables. “I’m preparing you for 
fourth grade!” she said, almost in a panic. 
“How will it look if you can’t ﬁ  nd what two times two equals?”
My fourth-grade teacher, in turn, be-
lieved it was her job to prepare us for ﬁ  fth grade and the notoriously steely matron of that level of elementary education. I went to a small school with only one teacher per grade level, by the way. This argument 
continued at every level, even into high 
school.
The underlying message was not about 
how trained or knowledgeable we were as students, but how we per-formed, and there’s nothing in-herently wrong with that. The 
quality of the result of a task is 
generally reﬂ  ective of the capa-bilities of the person performing that task, and we’ve built our 
education system around this 
idea. But somewhere between my eighth-grade history teacher 
saying, “Your high school teachers don’t care about your excuses,” and my 11th-
grade English teacher saying, “You think 
your college professors care about you? You’re just a blip of data to them,” the im-plied message that emerged seemed to be, 
“The teacher after me will skin you alive. 
Mark my words.”
For the record, with few exceptions, 
I’ve been lucky to have only excellent teachers, even into college. If I can be a lit-
tle honest, the scene from the beginning of 
the column is based on the experience of my ﬁ  rst college lecture. My General Chem-istry 1 professor sauntered in, rubbed his 
hands together and blew into his mic to 
get our attention. He said some important class-related things — again, I’m absent-minded — and then, to the astonishment of anyone taking a general chemistry class 
at UF, said, “I don’t care about what grade 
you end up getting. I care about what sort of person you end up becoming.”
General Chemistry 1 still happens to be 
the only A I’ve gotten in a science class at UF. I remember visiting his ofﬁ  ce hours once, asking him a few questions, then getting derailed on the poetry of Wislawa Szymborska, the late Polish Nobel Laure-
ate. That particular day, he wasn’t busy 
in his ofﬁ  ce hours. If a professor is busy, he’ll politely inform you. What I remember was how starved of student-teacher inter-
action he seemed, and then recognizing 
how lecturing wasn’t perfectly equivalent to teaching. At the time, I fully believed I was a data blip to him. I only went to his ofﬁ  ce hours once, though I wish I had 
gone to more.
Neel Bapatla is UF English sophomore 
English. His column appears on Thurs-
days.Professors would like to hear from youColumn
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.orgOn Monday morning I 
was rolled up in my blankets, all of my ex-tremities icy, waiting on the motivation to get 
out of bed. It was in this state that I shut off my phone alarm, looked through my missed texts and learned that David Bowie had died. 
Between that moment and now, count-
less articles have been written about him. I’m going to spare myself and everyone else yet another piece about the man’s life, legacy, what all of it meant to me and how it all came crashing down in the Monday morning cold. Only then did I understand David Bowie actually was a being of ﬂ  esh, capable of dying. 
Serendipitously, Monday is karaoke 
night at the Back Yard Bar downtown. Naturally, my friends and I decided to do what we assumed the freaky old bastard would have wanted: namely, get trashed and scream his music at the frigid stars. 
On our way downtown, we stumbled 
across a design spray-painted onto the con-crete sidewalk. It was viral marketing for “Blackstar,” Bowie’s ﬁ  nal album that had been released on his birthday only two days before his death. The album, as well as its accompanying imagery, is now easy to interpret as a farewell from the singer to his fans. 
In the wake of his death, the meaning 
of the “Blackstar” grafﬁ  ti has completely changed from the week before. For a while, they served as advertisements; now, the black stars on the sidewalks of downtown Gainesville are testaments to his life and legacy. 
As much as I would like it, it wouldn’t 
be appropriate or affordable for Gainesville to erect a monument to Bowie’s legacy. Perhaps the city could dynamite the Con-federate memorial and place a statue of Bowie atop the rubble, eliminating all the trouble of removing Confederate memo-rabilia and replacing it with something awesome in one swoop. Given the current political climate, I can see why city ad-ministrators would be reluctant to replace a monument to the “Lost Cause” with a piece honoring a bisexual British pop star. For some reason, I don’t think that one would go over very well at all. 
Yet, the degree to which Da-
vid Bowie inﬂ  uenced our lives deserves to be acknowledged. Bowie got his start as a rock mu-sician, yes, but he became an icon beyond replication, a ﬁ  gure 
who created not only music, but also im-ages and entire personalities that perme-ated pop culture at every level. Bowie gave iconography and inspiration to masses of youth previously doomed to be weird, gave them pride in their uniqueness and trans-formed the word “normal” into what you call someone who’s boring. 
Sadly, this wasn’t completely clear 
to everyone until we found out he was gone. This appears especially pertinent in Gainesville, where, for whatever reason, a disproportionate number of residents are in mourning. I believe this is reﬂ  ected in the choice of Gainesville as a marketing target for the “Blackstar” campaign — how many other cities of our size were chosen? 
Instead of appropriating new funds from 
the city coffers or stoking a new wave of neo-Confederate agitation, Gainesville should preserve, not wash away, these mementos. The time, energy and money needed to create a totally new memorial would be too much to ask for. All I’m ask-ing Gainesville to do is neglect the monu-ments that already exist. Doing so would eulogize a great artist and add yet another artifact to Gainesville’s disproportionately vivid cultural scene.  
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.
Gainesville should honor fallen legendColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
“Now, the black stars 
on the sidewalks of 
downtown Gainesville 
are testaments to his 
life and legacy.”ones,” she said.
Nine international muralists have passed 
through Gainesville and left their mark down-
town since November. In addition, 13 local artists have also painted 10 murals on the 
Make.Work facility, which formerly housed 
Discount Hi-Fi.
The international artists have drawn atten-
tion to buildings both busy and vacant alike.
On The Top restaurant, an Argentinian art-
ist who goes by Paste painted a floral piece in hues of teal, periwinkle and eggshell.
On the former Shadow Health building, 
Jaz, another artist from Argentina, painted a 
scene of creatures and plants not often seen 
in the urban environment.
Nathalie McCrate, the project manager of 
the Gainesville Community Redevelopment Agency, said the murals have morphed cer-tain overlooked buildings into landmarks.
“This mural is a perfect activation of unde-
rutilized spaces downtown,” she said. “Some of them are obvious and some are more secre-
tive — ones you have to hunt down.”
Raquel Vallejo, the project coordinator of 
352walls, said each mural has a unique style 
and includes elements of inspiration from Gainesville’s landscape.
“They have gone all over the world,” 
Vallejo said. “Wherever they are, their work is particular to where they are.”
Ukrainian muralist duo Interesni Kazki, 
consisting of Aleksei Bordusov and Vladimir Manzhoare, started their mural on the side of Market Street Pub and Cabaret on Thursday.
The name Interesni Kazki translates to in-teresting fairytale.
“We search the local area for the atmo-
sphere,” said Bordusov. “Usually we do it freestyle. We have sketches that we did be-fore. Maybe we will combine something and add details that connect it to Gainesville. We’ll see.”
Before they arrived, Interesni Kazki were 
told about American football and the Gators. Neither had been to Gainesville or knew what 
to expect.
“Murals for this town bring more life, some fresh dreams,” Bordusov said. “The town feels a bit boring. But murals bring 
some life.”
They also feel they can bring their own 
ideas and culture to Gainesville during their short visit.
“We try to reflect some details from lo-
cal places and mythology,” said Bordusov. “Sometimes we use details of Ukrainian cul-ture.”
Muralists create their work in only a few 
days, without much preparation, Vallejo said.“They come here with an open mind and 
when they get here, they figure it out,” she said. “It’s really an organic process.”
Wes Bivins, a clerk at Downtown Conve-
nience, watched muralist Gaia paint his store for six days.
“I don’t think they showed up here before 
they started work. I don’t think they stuck around,” Bivins said. “They were just kind of throwing it together.”
Still, Bivins appreciates the change in 
scenery outside his shop.
“Every time I turn the corner and see that 
flower up there, it’s almost photorealistic,” Bivins said. “He did (the flower) in four hours — the guy is a boss.”
Vallejo said the fast pace is common 
among muralists.
“This process is specific to the urban art 
genre,” Vallejo said. “None of the artists know what they are going to do until they get here.”
Sometimes the final result is a surprise 
even to the Interesni Kazki duo.
“We usually develop the story during 
the work,” Bordusov said. “Two weeks can change the story a lot.”
The pair believes their work should never 
have an implied meaning.
“It’s better when the work is multidimen-
sional in meaning,” said Bordusov. “Each person finds their own meaning. It’s interest-ing to hear what people see.”
Even after the artists depart, Gainesville 
residents will find their own meanings in the global perspectives depicted on local stores and restaurants, Manzhoare said.
“It’s like a bit of globalization in a good 
way — a cultural exchange,” he said.8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
MURALS,  from pg 1The murals were painted by local and international artists
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
A mural in the 352walls project decorates a wall facing Southwest First Street.
Alligator File Photo
A mural in the 352walls Project decorates the north wall of The T op, facing Northwest First Avenue, on Dec. 3. Intersni Kazki, an artist duo from Ukraine, is set to paint a new 
mural on the wall of Market Street Pub and Cabaret on Southwest First Avenue and Southwest First Street.FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Members of Vertax, a yo-yo group comprised of UF students, 
demonstrate Chinese yo-yo tricks at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art. A variety of organizations performed and led activities on Thursday for Asia or Bust, a part of the Museum Nights series at the Harn.
Celebrating Culture
Wenhsing Wu, a lecturer in UF’s Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Yii-Shyuan Chen, a UF genotyping lab technician, write Chinese calligraphy at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Thursday.Photos by Kali Kavouklis Wolf
Students from the Formosa Association of Student Cultural Ambassadors perform a traditional T aiwanese dance at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Thursday.
ABOVE:
Liang Xiaodan plays the Chinese zither at the Harn on Thursday.
RIGHT:
Nina Shou, 4, and Zoe Haller, 6, decorate fans with representatives from the Chinese Student Association at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Thursday.FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-20-15-23-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease 1/1 in 2/2 Townhouse in Museum Walk Apartments Females only. Lease is through July 30th w/ January rent already paid for! Amenities include washer/dryer, Internet, and utiles included in rent. Furnishings provid-ed, includes bed (with bed frame), desk, desk chair, dresser, and night stand. Walk-in closet. Parking included in rent. carinah10@ufl.edu    1-22-16-5-3
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
AUCTION   8 British Collector cars Rolls Royce, Bentley, Austin Healey & complete contents collision shop- building salvage & equipment   Sat. Jan. 16 @ 9am. 672 N. Lemon Ave. Sarasota,. www.dudleysauction.com  Ab1667 12%bp    1-15-1-10CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, windows? Big Sale on new cushioned pews and pew chairs. 1-800-231-8360. www.pews1.com    1-15-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For SaleFRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-1298 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
WANT CASH FOR EXTRA DIABETIC TEST STRIPS? I Pay Top Dollar Since 2005! 1-Day Fast Payment Guaranteed Up To $60 Per Box! FREE Shipping www.CashNowOffer.com 1-888-210-5233 Get Extra $10 Use Offer Code: CashNOW!    1-15-1-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted
Look Where You’re Going! 
Don’t T ext & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONALOFFICE. MUST TYPE 60 WPM
Send resume to dawnbkrop@gmail.com1-20-16-5-14
LOCAL TV STATION
hiring in HR, News and Technical Operations. See the About Us page at www.mygtn.tv    1-21-16-4-14
Federal Government Delivery Services is looking for exceptional OTR drivers. 2 years experience. Great employee benefits & 0.60/loaded, 0.40/unloaded. Call 574-584-7253 x1110    1-15-1-1425 DRIVER TRAINEES NEEDED NOWIN THE FL PANHANDLE! Schneider NationalEarn $800+ per week!NO experience Needed!Be Trained & based locally! 1-800-709-7364    1-15-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    1-15-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On BonusMake $55k a YearGreat Benefits + 401KPaid Orientation+ Tuition Reimb.CDL-A Req- (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    1-15-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
AIRCRAFT DISPATCH Certification in weeks, not years. Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -start here with 12 week FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649   1-15-1-15
New Year, New Career - AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, Boeing, Delta and oth-ers- Get hands on training for FAA certifica-tion. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 866-314-5838    1-15-1-15PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes? Wall & Associates can settle for a fraction of what you owe! Results may vary. Not a solicitation for legal services. 877.330.3429    
1-15-1-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Struggling with DRUGS or ALCOHOL?  Addicted to PILLS? Talk to someone who cares. Call The Addiction Hope & Help Line for a free assessment. 855-995-3142    1-15-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    1-15-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida baseball team 
returns a talented group of infielders for the 2016 season. Read the story on pg. 16 .Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
SEC baseball to air on ESPN Networks
More than 90 SEC baseball games will air on ESPN networks during the 
2016 season. The network will host six UF games, with two appearing on 
ESPN2.By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
After riding a rocket of momen-
tum earlier in the week, Florida’s 
women’s basketball team fell back 
to earth on Thursday night.
Plagued mainly by poor shoot-
ing, the No. 20 Gators (14-3, 2-2 
Southeastern Conference) dropped 
a disappointing 71-61 decision to 
the Georgia Bulldogs (13-4, 1-3 SEC) in the O’Connell Center.
The Gators started out strong 
by scoring the game’s first points. Beyond that, however, Georgia controlled the game from start to finish. 
Florida’s normally high-oc-
tane offense, which averaged 85.3 points per game coming into Thursday’s matchup, was anything but potent against the Bulldogs. 
From contested shots to open 
looks to desperation heaves, noth-ing was falling for Florida. The Gators shot 33.8 percent from the field.
After the game, coach Amanda 
Butler chalked her team’s shoot-ing struggles up to a combination of factors. 
“I don’t want to take any credit 
away from (Georgia’s) defense,” she said, “but our shot selection was very poor.”
UF has played well in the fourth 
quarter all season, and Thursday night was no different. As the end drew closer, the Gators started Bulldog Beatdown
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
The heavyweight bout of the week has ar-
rived.
In one corner, the No. 3 Florida Gators gym-
nastics team looks to build off of a resounding season-opening win, aiming to build momen-tum for what looks to be a grueling slate of up-coming home meets.
Opposite them, the No. 5 UCLA Bruins are 
primed to pull off the upset, hoping to put a dent in Florida’s championship hopes while bolster-ing their own.
The nation’s only fixture between top-10 op-
ponents will take place at 6:45 in the O’Connell Center tonight.
“"It's the most exciting meet there's going to 
be all year," senior Bianca Dancose-Giambattis-
to said.
For the Bruins, this away meet serves two 
functions. For starters, a victory in the O’Dome 
would continue their dominant streak against UF. Carrying a 25-12 all-time series record into 
this matchup, UCLA has history on its side.On top of that, a win could potentially cata-
pult the Bruins into a top-three ranking. Defeat-
ing then No. 3 Alabama at the Pauley Pavilion 
last week by a svelte 0.25 point margin, then-
No. 6 UCLA proved their mettle, conserving precious momentum to unleash against an op-ponent that dropped a spot from last week’s 
rankings.
The upset watch is in full swing, but the 
Gators have reason to be confident. Florida 
brings back five 2015 All-Americans to UCLA’s four, returning 17 of 24 routines performed at 
last season’s National Championships. And, with four freshmen having already made their 
competitive debuts — the most for UF since 2004 — the Gators boast a blend of youth and 
experience to complement their leaders.
Bridget Sloan, true to form, remains a consis-
tent yet formidable force at the top of the Gators’ 
all-around depth chart. Entering this meet hav-
ing collected her 19th all-around title and eighth 
SEC Gymnast of the Week award for her super-lative showing against Texas Woman’s Univer-sity, Sloan is the nation’s top-ranked all-around competitor, her nearest competition at this Florida faces off against No. 5 UCLA in home openerWHITE RANKS EIGHTH 
ALL-TIME IN ASSISTS 
AT OLE MISS.
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
Mike White will always be a 
Rebel.
He spent 11 years of his life 
in Oxford, Mississippi, both as a four-year starting point guard on the men’s basketball team and then as an assistant coach 
for seven seasons.
Now, for the first time in his 
career, he will face his alma 
mater on the campus he once called home. His Florida Gators 
face Ole Miss on Saturday night 
at 8.
“I don’t know what to ex-
pect,” White said on his return 
to Oxford. “It’s going to be odd.”
White’s resume as a player 
for the Rebels was impressive: 
117 games played, leading the team in assists in each of his 
four seasons and finishing his 
career with 370, eighth in pro-gram history. As a senior, White was part of the Ole Miss team 
that earned its first-ever NCAA 
Tournament win.
As an assistant coach, five of 
White’s years on the job were under current Rebels’ head 
coach Andy Kennedy. With that 
experience, White knows a bit about what to expect from Ole Miss on Saturday night, includ-
ing the team’s explosive of-fense led by senior guard Stefan 
Moody.
White admitted he’s more 
concerned about slowing the 
Rebels down than any emotion-
al ties to his alma mater.
“I have a Stefan Moody head-
ache right now,” White said. 
“I’m a lot more nerve-wrecked 
with how to defend that team 
and any one of Andy’s teams. 
He’s a ter-
rific offensive 
coach and mo-tivator.”
The Reb-
els are 12-4 and 2-2 in 
Southeastern Conference play. Moody is leading the conference with 24.4 points per game, the 
fourth-highest scoring average 
in the country. The Kissimmee native has scored at least 20 points in each of the team’s last 
11 games and has three 30-point 
games this season, including a career-high 33 against LSU on Wednesday.
White knows Moody will be 
a handful to defend, calling him arguably the best scorer in col-lege basketball.
“I know you’ve got to do a 
good job on Moody and you’ve got to do a good job on the oth-er guys. I think they’re capable of winning either way,” White said. “If we try to hold Moody 
to only getting eight or 10 shots, 
we could do that, but he’s prob-ably more likely to get 15 free Florida coach returns to 
alma mater as opponent
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF women's basketball coach Amanda Butler calls out to guard Eleanna Christinaki at the end of the 
first half of Florida's 71-61 loss to Georgia on Thursday in the O'Connell Center.
GYMNASTICSWhite
Finally ranked, Gators loseplaying better. 
The spark that ignited UF’s 
comeback was the team’s veteran 
leadership, aided by redshirt senior 
Cassie Peoples, who finished with a team-high 15 points including eight in the fourth quarter.
Midway through the third quar-
ter, trailing 42-25, Butler called her team over during a timeout. But in-stead of talking to the team herself, she left that responsibility to red-
shirt senior guard Carlie Needles. 
“She wanted to try and inspire 
the people who were gonna be on 
the floor in that particular situa-
tion,” Butler said. 
“It’s one of the things that 
makes her special, but it’s also one 
of the things we didn’t do for 40 minutes tonight.”
Following the timeout, UF 
seemed to click. 
Slowly but surely, the Gators 
started to trim the deficit. 
But like in their two losses earli-
er in the season, the deficit was too much to overcome. There wasn’t enough offense and, ultimately, there wasn’t enough time. 
While UF’s offense was lack-
ing, its effort was not. The Gators fought to the bitter end, even when confronted with the realization that a comeback was out of reach.
For Butler, Florida’s effort was 
no surprise. 
“I totally expected that,” she said of her team’s late comeback. 
“That’s who we are. That fight, 
that toughness and that never-say-die attitude.”
While the game marked the end 
of a two-game SEC winning streak for Florida, it marked a new begin-ning for Georgia. 
UGA’s 12-4 record looked good 
at face value, but with three SEC losses in their first three tries, the Bulldogs badly needed a win against a conference foe. 
Georgia coach Joni Taylor cred-
ited her team’s ability to get to the free throw line by driving into the paint as the main difference in to-night’s game as compared to her 
team’s previous SEC defeats. 
“We tried to really focus on 
attacking, playing an inside-out 
game, and not just relying on the three ball,” she said. 
For Florida, which came into 
Thursday’s game ranked in the As-sociated Press Top 25 for the first time in seven years, the loss was 
a wake-up call. But junior forward 
Ronni Williams said it won’t be one the Gators will sleep on. 
“As a team, we do a great job 
of making sure we stay on top of 
each other. It’s all about account-
ability,” she said. 
“And when we hold each other 
accountable, we get the results we 
want.”
Florida’s next chance to show 
that accountability will be this Sun-
day at 2 p.m., when the Gators take on LSU in the O’Connell Center. 14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's bench reacts after a play during Florida's 71-61 loss to Georgia on Jan. 14, 2016, in the 
O'Connell Center.
ABOVE: 
UF's Cassie Peoples (13) looks to pass the ball around Georgia's Caliya Robinson. Peoples scored a team-high 15 points off the bench.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
RIGHT: 
UF guard Simone Westbrook drives into the paint. The Gators strug-gled down low against Georgia, being outscored 44-28 in the paint.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
WHOOPS,  from pg 13Peoples had a team-high 15 points, including eight in the fourth quarter
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Haley Lorenzen (44) passes the ball to teammate Ronni Williams during the first half. week’s meet being 55th-ranked fresh-
man Katelyn Ohashi.
However, these bears are far from 
being pushovers. In Road To Nation-als’ most current event rankings, UCLA — in spite of placing com-petitors outside of the national top-
20 in the all-around, vault and bars 
— dominates the floor and balance beam.
Redshirt senior Sadiqua Bynum 
and junior Hallie Mossett are tied for 
second on the floor, with junior Angi 
Cipra not far behind in sixth. On the beam, senior Danusia Francis and redshirt junior Christine Peng-Peng 
Lee share first place, with Florida’s 
Ericha Fassbender .050 points behind in fourth.
Lee poses the largest threat to 
Florida’s winning prospects, com-
ing off of a successful 2015 that saw 
her net NCAA regional honors in the vault, bars and beam competitions to accompany a runner-up finish at the 
Pacific-12 conference’s beam show-
down.
UF’s coaches and gymnasts are 
excited to showcase their talents against a difficult opponent in a loud 
environment.
"The girls have been talking 
non-stop about competing in the 
O'Dome," UF coach Jenny Rowland 
said. "(But) the thing they really talk 
about most really is the energy."throws with his ability to draw fouls. It’s incredible.”
A younger Mike White used to play all 
of his home games at the Tad Smith Coli-seum, Ole Miss’ old court that closed in 
early January. The brand new Pavilion at 
Ole Miss is where Florida will face the Reb-els on Saturday, where Ole Miss has only played two games thus far. White said he 
might try to shoot around at the old Coli-
seum.
“That’s where I lived when I wasn’t in 
class,” White said of Tad Smith Coliseum. “Maybe I’ll just go shoot around at Tad and 
bring back some memories. It’ll be neat to 
be back on campus.”
So while White and the Gators (10-6) 
prepare to face Ole Miss in Florida’s sec-
ond consecutive road game, the former 
Rebel will try to enjoy his time back in Ox-ford despite the game result.
“I’m excited to get back and see some 
familiar faces and be in Oxford,” White 
said. “My wife and I had 11 years there. 
We had four of our five children there. I’ll always be a big fan of Ole Miss, outside of one game of the year.”FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron  Albright / Alligator Staff
Ericha Fassbender performs her floor routine during Florida's win against Missouri last season.
HOOPS,  from pg 13Florida will try to avoid a loss in its second straight road game 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White claps during UF's 77-63 win against Georgia on Saturday, Jan. 2, in the O'Connell Center.“I’m excited to get back and see some 
familiar faces and be in Oxford.”
Mike White
UF men coach
GYM,  from pg 13Two UCLA gymnasts are tied for second in the nation on floor16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
The Florida baseball team lost 
two key infielders from last year’s 
team that made it to the College World Series.
There was shortstop Richie 
Martin — who was selected with the 20th overall pick in the 2015 MLB draft by the Oakland Ath-letics — and third baseman Josh Tobias, who graduated and was taken in the 10th round of the draft by the Philadelphia Phillies. 
The two combined to hit .321, 
with 159 hits, nine home runs, 82 
RBIs and 31 stolen bases. Tobias’ 
defense at third base was also re-liable, with just one error in 140 chances — good enough for a .993 fielding percentage.
But while those two are gone, 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan and Flor-ida still have plenty of talent in the infield. Here’s a look at some 
key players in the Gators’ infield 
before the season begins on Feb. 19 against Florida Gulf Coast.
JJ Schwarz, sophomore, 
catcher
2015: .332 average, 18 home 
runs, 73 RBIs
Arguably one of the best hit-
ters in the country, Schwarz ex-ploded onto the scene last year as a freshman, leading UF in home runs and RBIs. He also became the first player in program history to hit four home runs in a game when he accomplished the feat against Stetson. 
The Palm Beach Gardens na-
tive was on almost every All-Freshman Team list, and was named the Southeastern Confer-ence Tournament’s Most Valu-able Player. 
Schwarz won’t be sneaking up 
on anyone this year, and oppos-ing teams will be careful pitching to him. 
Mike Rivera, sophomore, 
catcher
2015: .271 average, three 
home runs, 48 RBIs
One can say that Rivera was as valuable to the team as Schwarz was last season. While he didn’t 
put up the same offensive num-
bers, he excelled when tasked with handling a top-tier pitching staff.
Rivera picked up second team 
All-SEC honors and started 41 games at catcher. Expect more of the same this season from Ri-vera with O’Sullivan putting more trust in him behind the plate. 
Peter Alonso, junior, first 
baseman
2015: .301 average, five home 
runs, 32 RBIs
Alonso missed the first 30 
games for the Gators last season, but when he came back, he was reliable at the plate and in the field. 
Alonso started 39 games, 
reaching base in Florida’s last 20, while hitting .340 in the postsea-son with 15 RBIs. He also com-mitted just one error, tallying a 
.997 fielding percentage.
Having a healthy Alonso for a 
full season will pay dividends for 
the Gators. 
Dalton Guthrie, sophomore, 
second baseman
2015: .287 average, two home 
runs, 26 RBIs
Another player whose accom-
plishments were dwarfed by oth-ers around him, Guthrie started 69 games last season and finished fourth on the team with 81 hits. He was named a second-team freshman All-American by Base-ball America and joined Schwarz and Rivera on the SEC All-Fresh-
man team. 
The question for Guthrie re-
mains whether he will continue to 
play second base or if O’Sullivan will move him to fill the void left by Martin. 
Key newcomer:Jonathan India, freshman, 
middle infielder
2015 (High School): .405 av-
erage, 23 RBIs, 25 stolen bases
If O’Sullivan decides to move 
Guthrie to shortstop, India will be the man to take his place at sec-ond base.
He was drafted in the 26th 
round by the Milwaukee Brewers, 
but held off turning pro to join the 
Gators. The freshman was one of 
the top-rated high school players 
last year — No. 82 in the country 
and No. 15 in the state of Florida according to Baseball America. 
The No. 1 middle infield pros-
pect by Perfect Game, India brings speed to the table, going 25-of-27 on stolen base attempts last year.
India might find himself in the 
starting lineup when the season 
begins.Florida baseball returns talented infield for 2016 season
Schwarz led the Gators with 18 homers
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF’s JJ Schwarz bats during Florida’s win against Florida Atlantic in the 2015 NCAA Regionals. Schwarz 
returns as one of Florida’s leading offensive playmakers from last season.
