By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF alumna wore orange 
and blue as she competed on 
the “Jeopardy!” episode that aired Tuesday night.
Dr. Kyle Lauren Webb, a 
2012 graduate of UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine, won first place and about $4,400 as she competed against two other contestants.
The show was filmed Dec. 14 
and 15, but Webb couldn’t tell anyone about the results until the show aired.
Webb, 32, said she tried to 
get on the show for 11 years. After taking an online test to qualify for auditions, she was finally invited to Tampa for a chance to fulfill her dream.  
She found out in November 
that she’d be on the show.
“Jeopardy!” films five shows 
a day, and Webb watched with the other contestants as the first group filmed in December.They ended the game with 
zero dollars, she said.
“It was nerve-wracking,” she 
said.
Even more than the victory, 
Webb said she enjoyed just be-ing on the show.
“It’s something that’s been 
on my bucket list since I was a teenager,” Webb said.
Dr. Alex Fox-Alvarez, who 
went to veterinary school with 
Webb, said he had no doubt she 
would do well.
About five years ago, the 
two would join friends for trivia nights around Gainesville.
“She’s a huge trivia nerd,” 
Fox-Alvarez, 28, said. “She would just kill it.”
Fox-Alvarez said he wasn’t 
surprised to see Webb do so well on the show.
“She’s just brilliant,” he 
said. “She’s one of the smartest people I know.” 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 84 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
Finishing at the foul line
Late free throws push Florida 
past Mississippi State, pg. 13
Finishing at the foul line
Late free throws push Florida 
 pg. 13
Construction update
Chemistry building almost completed, students still ﬁ  ght for Norman Hall renovations, pg. 3
Forum on Islam, refugee crisis 
The event will be held on Wednesday, pg. 5Follow us online
Check us out on Facebook, Twitter @thealligator and Instagram @thealligator_
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eleven days after launching a Go-
FundMe, Gator Cinemas is far from 
reaching its goal of raising $15,000 to renovate the theater.
The theater, which featured mov-
ies for $2, closed its doors Dec. 10 
after drain lines to the restrooms 
stopped working, said general man-
ager Michael O’Brien.
O’Brien launched the fundraiser 
Jan. 8 to raise money for renovations such as steam cleaning, painting and installing two new sound systems.
As of press time, the GoFundMe 
had raised about $700.
O’Brien said the theater will like-ly open regardless of the fundraiser, but he hopes to make renovations as they inch closer to their goal.
“We’re not very close to it now,” 
O’Brien said.
He has worked on and off at the 
cinema for about 13 years, and each year he saw the facilities grow a little more outdated.
“We get a lot of clientele that are 
just happier that we’re a lot cheaper than the competitors,” O’Brien said, 
“But there’s deﬁ  nitely things that 
need to be repaired and spruced up before we reopen.”
O’Brien said the GoFundMe is 
currently their only project, but a partnership with W. Travis Loften High School may be in their future.“I believe one of the coordinators 
at Loften was going to work with us on possibly having different art stu-dents come out and do murals on the outside of the building,” he said.
On Jan. 8, the theater used its 
Facebook page to announce a need for volunteers who can help with renovations. Gator Cinemas creates GoFundMe
SEE MOVIES,  PAGE 4 UF alumna wins 
on ‘Jeopardy!’ 
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF alumna Dr. Kyle Lauren Webb, a graduate of the UF College of 
Veterinary Medicine, poses for a photo with “Jeopardy!” host Alex Trebek. Webb competed on “Jeopardy!” in December, taking ﬁ  rst place and $4,399. Her episode aired Tuesday night.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
POI BOY
Ben Lachicotte, 21, spins poi, a type of performance art that involves swinging tethered weights, often lit 
on ﬁ  re, in intricate patterns, on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. Lachicotte said he burnt off half of his hair the ﬁ  rst time he attempted to spin poi, but since then his skills have improved.
CAMPUS
The goal is to raise $15,000
“W e get a lot of clientele 
that are just happier that 
we’re a lot cheaper than 
the competitors, but there’s 
deinitely things that need to 
be repaired and spruced up 
before we reopen.”
Michael O’Brien
general managerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Volunteer Organization Fair
Find your passion at the 
Volunteer Organization Fair. 
The UF Center for Leadership 
and Service is proud to host the semester fair, where stu-dents can talk to campus and 
community representatives 
about getting involved. Come on out today from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Reitz Union Breezeway. Don’t miss out on 
this amazing opportunity.
Operation Catnip
At Operation Catnip, we have a dream of living in a world 
where every cat is safe and cared for, and you, too, can help this dream become a real-ity by supporting Catnip’s free 
spay, neuter and vaccination 
services for stray or feral com-munity cats in your area. The event will be Feb. 4 from 
5 p.m. to 9 p.m. at  Blaze 
Pizza, situated at 3617 Archer Rd. Blaze will donate 20 per-cent of every meal purchased by customers who say they are 
there to support the Operation 
Catnip. Make a difference in your com-munity by helping improve 
the quality of life in Alachua 
County’s community cats. Check out our website’s spe-cial events page at ocgaines-ville.org/about-operation-cat-
nip/special-events
RecSports Intramural Sports
Get some friends together and register for 5-on-5 basketball, 
4-on-4 flag football and team racquetball. Registration will remain open until Thursday at noon. Come ready to compete 
for the gold! Make sure to reg-
ister on IMLeagues.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Reitz Royale-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature hu-
man roulette, poker and black 
jack tables and a UF Club Creole pageant. The event will also feature two showings of 
“The Intern” at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free Jamaican food during Midnight Munchies. 
This event is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate. Students 
are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
Roe v. Wade anniversary and 
benefit showThe Gainesville Chapter of National Women’s Liberation invites you to join us for a 
Roe v. Wade anniversary and 
benefit show Friday at the Hardback Cafe. Although many believe it was solely this decision (via the 
Supreme Court) that gave us 
the right to abortion in the U.S., in reality it was years of struggle and grassroots 
organizing led by ordinary 
people that won this victory. Come learn more about the continued fight for abortion and birth control rights, enjoy 
some great music and finan-
cially support the movement! Doors open at 8 p.m., $5 to $15 sliding scale donation.
interACT
The UF Center for Arts in Medicine and Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education are offering an ex-
citing weekend retreat for UF students interested in learn-ing more about the work of 
theater revolutionary Augusto 
Boal and his internationally acclaimed Forum theatre. InterACT intensive training will be Jan. 30 from 10 a.m. to 
6 p.m. and Jan. 31 from 9:30 
a.m. to 3 p.m. InterACT is a nationally re-nowned social justice per-
formance troupe based out 
of California. During perfor-mances, audience members are invited on stage to active participants rather than pas-
sive observers. Discover a 
safe space to rehearse asser-tive communication strategies and inspire social and political 
change. For more information, 
email jeffpuf@ufl.edu .
Friday Program @ Krishna 
House
Come and attend this week’s 
Friday Program at Krishna House to learn about “Love — The Ultimate Need.” The 
program starts at 7 p.m. with 
mantra meditation followed by an ice breaker session and talk on the topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week complete with 
eternal knowledge by attend-
ing Friday Program at Krishna House. No registration re-quired. Come directly at 7 p.m. Please join us at Krishna 
House, 214 NW 14th St.
Apply Now for 2016-17 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, 
complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each 
year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline 
to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal pro-cessor is March 15. Apply well 
before March 15 to ensure the 
federal processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to the UF Office for Student Financial Affairs. 
Financial aid is awarded on a 
first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most 
– and best – aid. 
In order for the Office for Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a financial aid package, you must be an 
admitted student and have 
met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assis-tance completing your FAFSA, 
visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact 
your financial aid adviser. For contact information, visit sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject 
line to mgracehenley@alliga-
tor.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 84
HIGH  63° LOW  37°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson, 
  Maria Bomaventera
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
1
1312111098765432
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and final printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval confirms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGESRun With Us For Results You Can See
Contact Your Sales Rep 
Today: 352-376-4482
Fun and Fitness is a section of the Alligator dedicated 
to giving students tips on healthy living and exercise.DEADLINE
Wednesday, 
February 3rdRUN DATE
Wednesday, 
February 10th
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is now more than halfway done con-
structing the new Chemistry/Chemical Biol-
ogy building.
General and organic chemistry classes 
will take place in the building next Fall, UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando wrote in an email. 
The building is about 65 percent complete and will cost about $66.7 million.
Construction started Oct. 10, 2014, on the 
corner of West University Avenue and Buck-man Drive. Orlando said it’s expected to be completed in mid-July.
The building’s four ﬂ  oors will hold class-
rooms for undergraduate students in chem-
istry courses and graduate students studying 
chemical biology.
Orlando said the heating, ventilation and 
cooling system along with electrical work, ﬁ  re protection and plumbing still need to be com-pleted. The exterior of the building, includ-ing the roof, is about 25 percent complete, 
he said. The building, which covers about 
110,000 square feet, will be the fourth chemis-try building at UF.
The last chemistry building was built in the 
mid-1960s, he said.
“There was a distinct need for it,” Orlando 
said.
Soﬁ  a Mesa, a 19-year-old UF biochemistry 
freshman, said she has to travel to three differ-
ent chemistry buildings in a day.
She said it’ll be nice to have classes and of-
ﬁ  ces in the same area with the new building.
“They put us all over campus,” she said. 
“I think it’s a great way to give the students 
more opportunities to learn and to participate in other things.” 
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgChem building halfway done
THEY WILL LOBBY IN 
TALLAHASSEE.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students and administrators aren’t giv-
ing up on efforts to save Norman Hall.
The UF College of Education hasn’t re-
ceived any physical improvements, but stu-dents are lobbying in Tallahassee to fund 
renovations for the building, said Glenn Good, 
dean of the college.
UF Student Sen. Maddie McClinton (Inde-
pendent, Education) launched a petition in October that got more than 900 signatures and hundreds of comments from past alumni who were surprised to hear of the building’s condi-tion.“Mainly, our goal was to have the student 
voice be heard,” McClinton said.
Gov. Rick Scott vetoed UF’s request for $8 
million in funding for the building in June.
Matthew Hoeck, Student Government’s ex-
ternal affairs director, said students met with the Gator Caucus to voice concerns about the building’s state.
“We made clear that investing in Nor-
man and UF is a making a statewide impact,” 
Hoeck said.
Good said despite Norman Hall’s crum-
bling walls, the College of Education continues 
to do good work.
“We hope that he hears that this year, and 
we’re grateful that the students are helping to communicate that to him as well,” Good said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgUF students continue to 
lobby for Norman Hall fundsBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Students greeted poet and civil rights ac-
tivist Nikki Giovanni with a standing ova-
tion Tuesday night.
About 400 students filled the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom to hear Giovanni speak as part of UF’s Martin Luther King Jr. Celebra-tion. She spoke about Donald Trump and 
the importance of voting.
Giovanni, 72, opened her speech with 
one of her poems, entitled “Note to the 
South: You Lost,” which talked about the Civil War and how the South was on the 
wrong side.
“They always seem to forget that,” she 
said.
Giovanni, who said her great-grand-
mother was a slave, encouraged black stu-
dents to continue to fight for racial equality.
“You are the ‘after’ segregation; my gen-
eration is the ‘before,’” she said. “You think that somebody should like you, and we 
think, ‘Damn, you got here.’”
She encouraged students to defend and vote for causes important to them, such as 
Planned Parenthood and the legalization of 
marijuana.
“We all have to vote,” she said. “I don’t 
care what you vote for.”  
When she mentioned Trump, Giovanni 
spoke against the racist speech she said he uses.
“I know that Donald Trump is crazy; I 
think Americans are crazy,” Giovanni said. 
“‘Let America be great again?’ What the hell 
is that?”
Greter Gonzalez, a 19-year-old UF pub-
lic relations sophomore, said she thought 
Giovanni was inspirational.
“She’s definitely a character,” Gonzalez 
said. “She’s very entertaining, but also edu-cational.”
She said she was excited to attend 
Giovanni’s speech, and it was an eye-open-
ing experience.
“In the short term that she talked, she 
taught us a lot,” Gonzalez said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
”A bunch of people want to, but we’re go-
ing to wait until they deem it safe for every-
body to be able to do that,” he said.
O’Brien said engineers will assess whether 
the building has other structural issues and then file a report — hopefully by next week.Kelly Vogt, a 21-year-old UF biology ju-
nior, said she hasn’t been to the cinema in two years because it seemed gross.
“If they finished renovating it soon I would 
probably go back, because it was really nice,” she said. “It was only a dollar, but it just kind 
of creeped me out a little bit. I’m excited for it 
to be renovated.”
On the other hand, Masha Yaroshenko, a 
19-year-old UF psychology and Russian ju-nior, was upset the cinema had to close.
“Quality is not that great, but it’s so cheap 
and you get free refills, so it’s worth it,” she said. “As a college student, that’s all I care about.”
Yaroshenko said people should enjoy the 
cinema for what it is.
“Personally, I love it the way it is because, 
you know, we’re not perfect — theaters aren’t perfect,” she said. 
MOVIES,  from pg 1Theater seeks volunteers to help with renovationsCivil rights activist Nikki Giovanni talks about voting and equality 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Poet and writer Nikki Giovanni reads her poem titled “Note to the South: You Lost, ” 
to a packed audience in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Tuesday night. Giovanni spoke on black history, racism in the U.S. and other topics.
THE PROJECT COSTS
ABOUT $50,000.
By Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new interactive wall will teach stu-
dents about global food systems.
The new teaching wall, located in Frazier 
Rogers Hall, will have icons of plants and 
animals that students can click on to learn where food comes from, said James Ander-son, director of the Institute for Sustainable Food Systems at UF. The wall, which will be touchscreen, is up, but the software has 
yet to be installed. The project will cost less 
than $50,000.
The institute started planning the wall 
about six months ago, Anderson said.
Professors can also add their research to 
the wall, he said. Students will be able to use the wall to contact professors doing re-search in areas they are interested in.
The wall will contain large screens and computers to interact with, wrote John Tucker, a developer for the wall, in an email.
“Once setup, there is a fair amount of 
programming that needs to be done,” he said.
Anderson said he will judge how success-
ful the wall is when students interact with it. 
He said he wants to establish a situation 
room where students and community mem-bers can use mock scenarios to figure out how to create sustainable public policies.
“Its potential is limitless,” Anderson said.Frazier Rogers Hall gets new interactive wall
By Kayla Solem
Alligator Contributing Writer
Natalie Balmori spent Winter Break in Nicaragua taking care of 
locals’ pets.
The UF biology sophomore was one of four UF students who went 
on a veterinary mission to take care of pets in other countries. The 
students, who went with the Maderas Rainforest Conservancy in Ni-
caragua, spayed, neutered and dewormed animals for about 10 days. 
The trip cost $1,750 per student.
Students learned stitching patterns used during surgery, how to 
take and record vitals, give medicines and perform exam routines, the 19-year-old said.
“I helped out in spays and neuters and administered medication, 
which is something I never really did before.” Balmori said.
Renee Molina, the director of the Maderas Rainforest Conservancy, 
said students created a lasting impact on the Nicaraguan community.
“It gives them invaluable hands-on experience,” Molina said.Kelly Parrish, a veterinary junior at Auburn University, led the 
group in Nicaragua. She said the community wouldn’t have access to veterinary services without the students.
“I definitely think that the pet populations were healthier in the 
town where we have been doing clinics for several years than in the town we just started in,” the 24-year-old said.
While students are learning a lot, they also bond with the animals 
they care for, Balmori said. She said she’ll always remember the first dog she took care of in Nicaragua.   
“He was our very first patient, and we had to get his catheter in,” 
Balmori said. “I got it in perfectly on the first try, and that is something that’s pretty difficult to do. I took care of him pre- and post-op and, I don’t know, I guess I got very attached because he was my first patient.” UF students participate in veterinary missionsBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A study published Tuesday found up 
to 10,000 species of insects throughout 50 North Carolina homes.
That includes between 32 to 211 species 
per home, with variations of spiders, beetles 
and wasps, according to the study.
“Most surprising was that some groups of 
these arthropods were found in all the hous-
es,” Matthew Bertone, the lead author of the study, said.
Still, scientists say these numbers are 
nothing to worry about.
“I think there probably would be some 
fear associated with this,” Bertone said. “We 
want to stress that most of these organisms 
are small and harmless.”
William Kern, a UF associate professor 
of urban entomology, believes the species found in Florida homes could differ from those in the study. He said Florida has differ-ent species of household insects, especially when the temperature is higher.
“When you are running central heating, 
you are going to dry out the environment and there will be more insects coming in the home,” he said.
In addition, Kern said the species varia-
tions — including booklice, silverfish and German cockroaches — would also depend on the type of living space.
“Multi-structure dwellings, like apart-
ments or dormitories, tend to have higher 
pest quantities than single-family homes,” 
Kern said. 
He said these insects only pose a possible 
danger to people who are allergic to the pro-tein that arthropods carry.  
“If they weren’t considered before, they 
shouldn’t be considered now,” Kern said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgWhat bugs 
are lurking in your home?RESEARCH
“It gives them invaluable hands-on experience.”
Renee Molina
director of the Maderas Rainforest ConservancyWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
QUARTER-SIZED QUARTET
From left, Brandon Hidalgo, 20, Aaron Barrera, 19, Brian Burwell, 20, and John Partin, 21, play their 
euphoniums together at the base of Century T ower on Tuesday afternoon. The group, named the Quarter-sized Tuba Quartet, plays at Century T ower every Tuesday from 2:45 p.m. to 3 p.m.
By Diana Illingworth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Community leaders will gather Wednes-
day evening for Welcoming Diversity: A 
Community Action Forum against Islamo-phobia and Intolerance.
Guests will discuss Islamophobia, inter-
faith relations, the Syrian refugee crisis and the role of media in shaping public percep-tion of these issues.The event starts at 6 p.m. Wednesday at 
the Thomas Center, situated at 302 NE Sixth Ave.
Iman Zawahry, an affiliated faculty mem-
ber of the UF Center for Global Islamic Stud-ies, said misguided people sometimes believe Muslim faith and scripture tell them to kill.
“We always say they’re hijacking our re-
ligion,” she said of violent Muslims, “taking the name of Islam as if it is a violent religion.”
Zawahry said she wants to arm everybody with knowledge and answer any questions they might have about Islam.
Terje Østebø, director of the Center for 
Global Islamic Studies, said the forum will focus mostly on Gainesville residents.
“We’re not going to change national poli-tics,” he said, “ but we want to make sure that our local community is a welcoming community.”
Østebø also emphasized the importance of 
welcoming refugees.
“Saying no one can come in is an unfair 
and un-American way to deal with the prob-lem,” he said. 
About 150 guests said they were attend-
ing on the event’s Facebook page as of press time.
“We don’t want this to be an endpoint, 
but rather a starting point for continuous ac-tivism within the local community,” he said.Forum on Islamophobia to combat intolerance, ignorance
CAMPUS
THE WORK WILL BE ON 
DISPLAY UNTIL FEBRUARY.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF graduate assistant’s art is 
on display in Chicago.
The National Wet Paint Masters 
of Fine Arts Biennial Exhibition 
chose Elias Lytton, a UF painting 
and drawing graduate student, to 
display his art as part of an exhibi-tion at the Zhou B Art Center in Chi-cago. His work is on display until Feb. 13.
The exhibit’s curators pick from 
a pool of master’s students across the country every other year. The name “Wet Paint” refers to the idea of a fresh group of artists who are 
developing their careers.
Lytton’s piece, “No Title (pen-
ance),” shows an abstract picture of a landscape, the 28-year-old said. He said he submitted his three 
strongest pieces, and one was cho-sen.
The piece is oil paint on canvas 
and needed to be shipped carefully 
to its temporary home in Chicago, 
he said.
“The stuff I’ve been working on 
right now, that painting especially, 
is really dense with the paint on it,” 
Lytton said. “So, I had to invent this whole foam casket thing for it to make sure nothing would get dam-aged or pushed on.”
Maria Rogal, the interim director 
for the School of Art and Art His-tory at UF, said Lytton’s work was exceptional.
“It shows a lot of Elias’ own mo-
tivation but also probably the sup-port that I would say he has from his peers and his teachers in order to get there,” Rogal said.Chicago exhibition 
shows UF student’s artThe forum is W ednesday night“W e’re not going to change national 
politics, but we want to make sure that 
our local community is a welcoming 
community.”
T erje Østebø
director of the UF Center for 
Global Islamic StudiesThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
English accents and the importance of /r/ sounds
In the 10 minutes I could bear to watch Sun-
day’s Democratic debate, I was struck by Bernie Sanders’ speech – namely, his accent. Apart from his distinct pronunciation of a few vowels and his intonational and rhythmic 
patterns typical to New York English, Sanders’ speech mostly perked up my ears because of one feature: its lack of the sound /r/.
Granted, this is somewhat of an over-gener-
alization, because there is no English accent in which the /r/ sound is completely absent. Rather, in some accents, /r/ is not pronounced when it follows a vowel and forms the ﬁ  nal part of a syllable. Hence, /r/ sounds that start a syllable and precede a vowel are al-
ways pronounced.
In linguistic terminology, /r/-type sounds are called rhot-
ics and generally involve a fairly complicated articulation, 
which is why children struggle to acquire these sounds and generally master them last. The term “rhotic” is also of ut-most importance to the classiﬁ  cation of accents in English because it provides a crucial point of division.
Arguably one of the greatest divisions in English is be-
tween rhotic and non-rhotic accents, which is to say our 
speech and accents are immediately distinguishable based 
on the pronunciation, or lack thereof, of /r/-like sounds. This is why, to my ears, Bernie Sanders’ non-rhotic accent sounds so foreign and so marked. If we think in terms of English ac-cents throughout the world, there is great disparity in /r/ pro-nunciation. The English accents of England, the Caribbean, Africa, Australia, New Zealand and some coastal portions of America’s east coast are overwhelmingly non-rhotic, where-as the accents of Canada, India, Scotland, Ireland and the rest 
of the U.S. are generally rhotic. In accents that are non-rhotic, 
troubles generally arise because of so-called “mergers,” in which two separate words become homophones. This also serves as a test for the status of your accent. 
But why does this occur? And furthermore, how could it 
be so randomly spread throughout the world? 
Getting to the history of this sound, there was once a pe-
riod in which every English speaker pronounced /r/ sounds in every word, no matter their position within a syllable. However, in the later parts of the 18th century, English underwent a transition: Some speakers started putting more emphasis on vow-els before /r/ and “sinking” the /r/ sounds them-
selves. These pronunciations were originally as-
sociated with lower, working-class identities, but — likely per rapid urbanization — the English of major cities in England was quickly transformed, and the vast majority of accents in England be-came non-rhotic.
Scotland and Ireland never underwent this 
transition, which explains the pronunciation of /r/ in their accents. However, areas of the world that endured sustained 
contact with England — such as relevant parts of Africa, 
Australia and the Caribbean — inherited /r/ drop and have maintained it up to the present.
Returning to the original accent in question — that of New 
York: What accounts for the lack of /r/, its most famous fea-ture? Historical linguists posit that this pronunciation derives from the city’s upper class imitating the prestigious accents of London. To vastly oversimplify the phenomenon, this pro-nunciation caught on and became the standard in the city.
To bring things full circle, sociolinguistic studies con-
ducted in the second half of the 20th century revealed that the general public in New York perceived the complete drop of /r/ as a marker of the lowest social classes, and many natives consciously pronounced /r/ sounds so as not to ap-pear lower-class. So we can glimpse, with a little humor and irony, how in just the span of a few centuries the absence of /r/ sounds has been considered a marker of the working-class, then prestigious enough to merit imitation, then back 
to its original lowly status. Say this without an /r/: “poor ‘r.’”
This all goes to show that the speech sounds of any lan-
guage have to be analyzed and understood in the context of 
power and prestige at speciﬁ  c points in history, as well as the collision of fate and phonetics. This is all to say that I’m feeling the Bern — pronounced “bun.”
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics master’s 
student. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Tragedy in Flint 
shows government 
at its worst
The effects of the health crisis currently unfolding in Flint, Michigan, will be felt for years to come. This is not a bold, overly negative prognosis: It is a tragic reality reinforced by science — or, rather, the lack thereof.
Although the news from Flint has been steadily build-
ing for months (or years, depending on how you quantify the buildup to tragedy), coverage of lead poisoning in the city’s water reached a crescendo last week after President Obama signed an emergency declaration for the city on Saturday. This declaration will allow the city to receive federal aid money to help alleviate the situation but, by most accounts, it will be far from enough.
The situation devolved into a partisan issue following com-
ments made by Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clin-ton’s during the closing moments of Sunday’s Democratic debate. 
Slamming Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder, Clinton took him to task 
for allowing the situation to escalate under his watch. Clinton’s critical comments were compounded by a press release from the Bernie Sanders camp, which called for Gov. Snyder to resign. 
“Because of the conduct by Gov. Snyder’s administration 
and his refusal to take responsibility, families will suffer from lead poisoning for the rest of their lives,” the press release reads. “Children in Flint will be plagued with brain damage and other health problems. The people of Flint deserve more than an apol-
ogy.” 
Both Sanders and Clinton are right on several accounts. Gov. 
Snyder and his administration indeed all but facilitated this trag-
edy, and their efforts to rectify it are coming too little, too late. What’s more, any efforts on their part cannot undo the unpre-dictable, irreversible physical and mental damage that is going to afﬂ  ict the children of Flint in the coming decades.
Where they’re wrong — and we’re disappointed Bernie did 
not rise above this sort of thing — is in the rush to damn and 
accuse rather than heal, resolve and reform. There is an obvious 
and pressing need to hold someone accountable for the unforgiv-able oversights that have backed Flint residents into a corner. 
It is evident that much of the blame lies at Snyder’s feet, but 
when viewed comprehensively, the safeguards meant to prevent this very sort of incident were bungled at nearly every level of governance. On both a state and federal level, environmental agencies consistently opted to go with the more cost-effective op-tions rather than the safer — but more costly and time-consum-
ing — alternatives. 
Blame the Snyder administration if you will, but don’t forget 
the Environmental Protection Agency’s complicity in permitting 
the Flint government to pump water from the Flint River, which was long known to be unhealthy.
There is no safe amount of lead for the human body, espe-
cially for young children and infants. With that in mind, what can be done for the 8,657 children under 6 years old in Flint, as well as those who have yet to be born? 
The answer is, tragically, not much. Ideally, the federal and 
Michigan governments will establish relief funds and programs to clean the water. There will also likely be initiatives to help the town’s parents and children adjust to the new physical and men-tal needs they never would have had to deal with if government ofﬁ  cials had done their jobs properly. But no amount of money can take away from the pain and heartbreak facing this town in the years to come. What is needed now is reform in the widest sense, generosity and, just maybe, a degree of faith.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I was devastated after logging 
onto Twitter on Thursday morning to discover what many 
were already talking about: Ac-
tor Alan Rickman passed away 
at 69 after suffering from a bout with cancer.
His death has put a few things 
in perspective: First of all, it’s been made clear to me that many people didn’t even know who Rickman was, other than being the guy who played the greasy-
haired and morally ambiguous character of 
Snape in the “Harry Potter” ﬁ  lms. 
Thursday morning, when I turned to the 
person next to me to ask if they’d heard about 
Rickman’s death, they gave me a confused 
glance and asked if I had known the man per-sonally. (Unfortunately, I had not.)
This shouldn’t be too surprising to me, 
and it’s understandable. There will always be 
people who don’t know about the existence 
or works of others, no matter how famous or widely discussed the person might be. I’m certain it’s possible to ﬁ  nd some fortunate, 
uninformed soul in the vastness of the U.S. 
who might give you a dumbfounded look when Donald Trump’s presidential campaign is mentioned.
It has unfortunately been made clear to 
me that the celebrities we love, the actors and authors we love, will someday pass away. All the characters we love to read about, the personalities we identify with, chat about and 
crush over will one day leave this world. It’s a 
pretty darn bleak thought, really.
Rickman has been part of my life since I 
ﬁ  rst watched him play the dramatically long-suffering character of Alexander Dane in “Gal-
axy Quest” as a middle-schooler. I loved him 
then with his disdainful humor and his mel-liﬂ  uous voice, and I’ve loved him since.
In contrast, I hated the character of Snape. 
He uses his unhealthy obsession over a girl as his motivating force in life, is absolutely hor-rible to Neville and Hermione for no reason I can tell other than to be a jerk and never pos-sesses the spine to truly tell Harry why he act-
ed so spitefully. Nevertheless, Rickman did a 
wonderful job playing him, a fact that helped warm me up to Snape through the years.
For those of us who have seen Rickman in 
more roles than just that of Snape, here are a few of my favorite moments of his acting: Rickman had a long and fruitful career in theater before go-
ing into movies as an actor in the 
Royal Shakespeare Company. He played a number of literary acting roles in his lifetime, and I fully rec-
ommend anyone who enjoyed his 
slippery, elegantly voiced portrayal of Snape to go explore his other 
works.
Rickman played the genteel and heart-
breaking Col. Brandon in the 1995 movie ver-sion of Jane Austen’s “Sense and Sensibility.” Brandon has to wait a long time to get his love, but he’s one of the most well-intentioned 
heartthrobs you’ll ﬁ  nd in an Austen novel. If 
you want to see him as a true romantic hero, this is the movie to watch.
Another of my favorite Rickman roles is 
his epic portrayal of the Sheriff of Notting-ham in the 1991 ﬁ  lm “Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.” The movie is a loose adaptation 
of the classic tale of Robin Hood, mixing ac-
tion and adventure with wisecracking humor. Rickman received the British Academy of Film and Television Arts award for best ac-tor in a supporting role for his dastardly deeds 
as sheriff and does a stellar job of playing the 
character as an intriguing mix of hilarity and insanity.
This past week has been a stark reminder 
that the much-loved celebrities in our lives will eventually pass on, just as we all will. The inevitability of death makes their passing no less saddening, but thankfully the art they created helps all of us remember them.
Sally Greider is a UF English and public 
relations junior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.In remembrance of Alan RickmanColumn
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.org
“The past week has 
been a stark reminder 
that the much-loved 
celebrities in our lives 
will eventually pass on.”Around 1988, the forma-
tion of al-Qaida set the foundation for modern terrorism. They were one of the ﬁ  rst groups 
to attack innocent lives in the hopes of kickstarting an apoca-lyptic war with the West. For those who don’t quite remem-ber this formerly dominant power in the Middle East, they are also the terrorist group that broke ties with the Islamic State group on the basis of it being too extreme. 
The goal of any terrorist attack — 
whether it be by al-Qaida, ISIS or any other group —  is to strike fear into ci-vilians to the point that they don’t feel safe enough to go outside. As the Ameri-can government bolsters security to pre-vent attacks in major metropolitan areas and average-sized U.S. cities, we may be missing a giant hole in the American se-
curity blanket. Although an attack on Dis-
ney World would not be as easy to justify as an attack on New York or Boston, it would probably change how we perceive the threat posed by terrorist groups just as much, if not more. So why haven’t terror-ists attacked Walt Disney World?
There are two primary mentalities re-
garding how terrorists can “best” maxi-
mize their ability to spread terror: One 
of these is that a major attack — such as the attack on the World Trade Center 15 years ago, or the Paris attacks just two months ago — sends shockwaves through the global political and economic systems. If terrorists were looking to maximize fear in this way, a Disney theme park would be the place to do so. According 
to the Themed Entertainments Associa-
tion, visitors to Disney’s Magic Kingdom Park round out to about 19 million people each year. And unlike an urban city such as New York, there is little to no security standing in the way of an attack. Over the holiday break, Disney parks installed metal detectors at park entrances to “in-crease” security. That sounds great and 
all, but when I went with my family to 
Disney, security stopped about one out of every 50 park guests for screening. With-out a backpack, I went straight through the “guests without bags” line. I guess it’s impossible for someone to ﬁ  t anything dangerous inside their pockets.
On the other side of the spectrum is the logic of numerous small-scale attacks. In his popular book “Freakonomics,” Steven Levitt, a University of Chicago econo-mist who specializes in crime, 
argued the mentality of one ma-
jor terrorist attack is outdated. He believes terrorist groups would increase their efﬁ  ciency in spreading terror if, say, 19 men — the number it took to 
carry out the 9/11 attacks — went to ran-dom American cities and opened ﬁ  re on the general public. However, small-scale 
attacks like these don’t and won't work 
for the same reasons shootings haven’t brought about gun reform. Some Ameri-cans don’t empathize enough with cities where tragedies have occurred. The ma-jority of Americans have never been to San Bernardino, California. They’ve never been to Aurora, Colorado. On the other hand, scores of Americans have been to 
a Disney park at some point in their lives.
An attack on an amusement park like 
Disney World would be a turning point 
in American foreign policy. Places like Magic Kingdom aren’t foundations for the country’s economic and political system, but rather ones where people come from the world over to see Cinderella’s Castle. Families and friends gather in places like 
Orlando, not to secure ﬁ  nancial transac-
tions or discuss public policy, but to es-cape the fear and stress that comes along with daily life. If a group like ISIS were to attack Disney World, Americans would no longer feel safe to vacation — to escape. And without a venue to evade the harsh reality of problems such as terrorism, peo-ple would begin to see it as a part of their 
everyday lives, which is exactly what ter-
rorist groups such as ISIS desire.
If stopping terrorist attacks targeting 
economics or politics isn’t an important objective for some, think about the Ameri-cans who would be targeted with an attack on an amusement park. We are not talking about businessmen at the New York Stock Exchange; we are talking about thou-
sands of innocent families. Before a ter-
rorist group starts plotting against Mickey Mouse, American policymakers need to take the likelihood of attacks on amuse-ment parks seriously.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineer-
ing freshman. His column appears on Wednesdays.
Why not an attack on Disney World?Column
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
Gainesville Police arrested a Newberry 
woman early Monday night after authori-
ties said she coordinated a robbery that later turned into a stabbing.
At about midnight Saturday, April Lauren 
LeBlanc, 34, robbed her drug dealer after she said he sold her fake drugs, according to a po-lice report.
LeBlanc and three other people knocked on 
the man’s door, located in the 5000 block of SW 17th Place. The man thought there were customers outside and opened his door. Once inside, one of LeBlanc’s friends stabbed the man in the back and then sliced his chin with 
a large butcher knife, according to the report.During the fight, LeB-
lanc stole a cellphone from 
someone in the man’s home. She later told police she had planned the rob-
bery Friday but didn’t ex-
pect it to be violent, accord-
ing to the report.
Police arrested LeBlanc 
on two charges of armed 
robbery and one burglary charge. 
Authorities took her to the Alachua County 
Jail where, as of press time, she remains in lieu 
of an $85,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloGainesville Police arrested a UF freshman 
early Tuesday morning after police said he 
drove his truck into a gas station.
At about 1 a.m. Tuesday, Cameron Dane 
Collins, 18, drove his truck into a support 
beam at the Shell gas station situated at the 
corner of Archer Road and Southwest 34th Street, according to a police report.
Collins hit the beam going about 20 miles 
per hour, said 34-year-old cashier Angel Wor-giss. She said the impact from the crash shook her store’s windows and left Collins’ front-right fender hanging from his truck.
After the crash, Collins walked across the 
parking lot to find the bathroom, and Worgiss called police.
When police arrived, 
Collins was sitting in his truck with a key in the ig-nition, according to the re-
port. Collins is listed as a 
student in the UF directory.
Police measured Collins’ 
blood-alcohol levels to be .178 and .184.  
Police arrested Collins on a charge of DUI 
and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Tuesday afternoon on his own recognizance.
- Martin Vassolo
A recent study showed feral swine cost the 
Florida cattle industry about $2 million a year.    
The study – led by Samantha Wisely, a UF 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences as-sociate professor of wildlife ecology and con-
servation – explained that Florida’s cattle in-
dustry loses the money due to a phenomenon called rooting, by which feral swine, or pigs, hunt for food.
The swine are often found on cattle ranch-
es because hunting permits in the southeast-ern U.S. allow them to be there.
In the process of turning over soil, swine 
can dig about two feet deep, which complete-
ly buries and destroys the soil, Wisely said. This makes the grass that could grow toxic to 
cattle.
In the 14-month study, Wisely said she 
compared areas that had been rooted with ar-eas that were unrooted. She discovered rooted 
areas had a higher percentage of plants cattle 
couldn’t eat.
“Basically, they reduce the amount of food 
cattle can eat,” Wisely said about the swine. “The way cattlemen make money is by in-creasing the weight of cattle; if they don’t have enough grass, they don’t put on enough weight.”
- Jessica RodriguezA UF student is studying how hunger af-
fects playfulness in dogs for his senior the-
sis.
James Jimenez, a 21-year-old UF psy-
chology senior, said he is collecting data on dog behavior and playfulness for a research study through UF’s Animal Behavior and Welfare Lab and Oregon State University’s Human-Animal Interaction Lab. The study measures a dog’s playfulness after it has eaten and again when it hasn’t been fed for several hours.
He said he started researching at the lab 
his sophomore year. He wanted to research something students wouldn’t learn about in an average psychology class.
Jimenez said he collects data by play-
ing with dogs of students and Gainesville residents. The research is based off a 1998 study on cats’ levels of play in relation to hunger.
“Basically that’s what we’re replicating, 
just in dogs,” he said. “Typically, they’re go-ing to be more playful, because when you’re interacting with them, they expect some kind of food.”
- Katelyn Newberg
Collins
 LeBlanc
911 Roundup: drug dealer robbery, gas station crash Research Roundup: beef in the cattle industry, dog behaviorWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"  
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-16-15-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sublease 1/1 in 2/2 Townhouse in Museum Walk Apartments Females only. Lease is through July 30th w/ January rent already paid for! Amenities include washer/dryer, Internet, and utiles included in rent. Furnishings provid-ed, includes bed (with bed frame), desk, desk chair, dresser, and night stand. Walk-in closet. Parking included in rent. carinah10@ufl.edu    1-22-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR  11  
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1293 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-t13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
LOCAL TV STATION
hiring in HR, News and Technical Operations. 
See the About Us page at www.mygtn.tv    
1-21-16-4-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago 
Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONALOFFICE. MUST TYPE 60 WPM
Send resume to dawnbkrop@gmail.com1-20-16-5-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, 
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
1-25-16-5-14
Homework Coach for gifted 7th grader with dysgraphia. $10/hr. 4-8 hrs/wk. Flexible. Needs help with organization, study skills, time management, and homework. Send qualifications to KarenGill@aol.com    1-25-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
PRESERVE WATER
TICK.TOCK.
Reduce your showertimeby 2 min.14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Kelsey Stewart leads a veteran-
heavy infield group for the Florida softball team.  Read the story on page 16.LATE FREE THROWS 
PUSH GATORS PAST 
MISSISSIPPI STATE.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
A second-half push led Florida 
to a close, three-point win on 
Tuesday night in the final minute 
against Mississippi State.
The Gators defeated the Bull-
dogs 81-78 in the O’Connell Cen-
ter behind nine three-pointers 
and 20 made free throws. 
It was the Bulldogs’ fifth con-
ference loss in as many tries and Florida’s sixth straight win 
against Mississippi State.
Florida (12-6, 4-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) shot 44.8 percent from the field (26-of-58), includ-ing a 9-for-21 mark from down-town and 20-of-33 from the free-
throw line. 
It was Florida's fifth-best 
shooting night of the season. 
And even with 15 turnovers, it 
was enough for the Gators to win.
“We didn’t come in here with 
the right mentality we were sup-
posed to come out with,” forward Devin Robinson said. “It’s a wake 
up call that anything can happen. We got the win, but it wasn’t a 
good one.”
With 1:55 left in the game, 
Mississippi State’s I.J. Ready made a layup to give the Bulldogs a 76-75 lead. 
Following a pair of missed 
threes by both teams, John Eg-bunu drained two free throws with one minute remaining. 
Soon after, the UF center made 
two more free throws following 
a Mississippi State layup to put 
Florida up 79-78.
Two more missed baskets by 
the Bulldogs and two KeVaughn 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Gymnasts rack up honors
For the second straight week, senior Bridget Sloan was named the South-
eastern Conference Gymnast of the Week, the league announced on Tues-day. Alicia Boren was also named the SEC Freshman of the Week.By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
As the Florida women's basketball team 
trailed Georgia 42-25 in the third quarter 
last week, the clock stopped for a timeout. The Gators huddled on the sideline wait-ing for instruction, motivation or some 
combination of the two. 
But it wasn't a coach who gave the 
team its much-needed pep talk.Fifth-year senior guard Carlie Needles 
took care of that.
“(She told us) stuff I don’t really wanna 
repeat,” fellow guard Simone Westbrook said. 
“She just gets in your face, gets you 
hyped up and tells you not things that you 
necessarily want to hear, but things we need to hear."
Carlie’s motivation was not enough 
against Georgia, as the Gators fell 71-61. But many times this season, it has been exactly what the team has needed.
The Gators have gained a reputation for 
coming back to win games late. 
They did it against rival and then-No. 
6 Florida State earlier in the season. They did it against LSU in their last game.
And, most notably, they did it in Rocky Top against then-No. 12 Tennessee, when UF coach Amanda Butler was absent from 
the sidelines due to a family emergency.
Butler is quick to credit her team’s se-
nior leadership for that scrappy mentality, 
and that starts with Needles. 
However, for the 5-foot-6 sharpshoot-
er from Highlands Ranch, Colorado, it’s nothing new. 
“From day one,” her high school coach 
Bill Bradley said of Needles being a leader 
back in her prep days.
Bradley was also quick to praise her re-
lentless nature, which he said makes her Senior guard paving way for UF women's basketball teamPOSITION BREAKDOWNS
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
Harrison Bader, one of the top 
outfielders in the country last 
season and a force in Florida’s 
lineup, exemplified the talent the 
Gators had in the outfield.
Bader finished the 2015 sea-
son second on the team with 17 
home runs, 66 RBIs, 33 walks 
and a .566 slugging percentage. 
He was also solid defensively, 
leading all of UF’s outfielders with 10 assists while not commit-
ting an error. 
His hard work paid off, with 
the Bronxville, New York, native 
being selected by the St. Louis 
Cardinals in the third round 
(100th overall pick) of the 2015 MLB Draft.
However, even with the loss 
of Bader, coach Kevin O’Sullivan and the Gators return one of the 
most dynamic center fielders in 
the country in Buddy Reed and a slew of others who will be count-ed on to produce more in 2016.  
Buddy Reed, junior
The quintessential leadoff hit-
ter, Buddy Reed had a breakout sophomore campaign. 
After hitting just .244 in his 
first season at Florida, Reed hit .305 last year and led the team with 86 hits. The Finksburg, Maryland, 
native also had a team-best 13-
game hitting streak last year be-
tween March 4-27. 
But Reed’s strongest contribu-
tions were de-
fensively and on 
the base paths.
He was sec-
ond on the team with 18 stolen 
bases in 26 at-
tempts, and be-came the first 
UF player to be named to the 
Southeastern Conference All-
Defensive team since Nolan Fon-tana and Mike Zunino picked up the honor back in 2012. 
For a team that is ranked No. 
1 in the country heading into the 2016 season, Reed will be counted on to be the catalyst on offense, while providing solid de-
fense. 
Jeremy Vasquez, 
sophomore
Vasquez might be entering the 
2016 season in a two-way battle 
for the starting right-field spot 
with Ryan Larson. 
Vasquez started 14 games 
in right field for the Gators and 
played in 42 games, after missing 
the first 16 games of the season Key playmakers back 
in the outfield for 
Florida baseball teamFinishing at the Foul Line
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF's Dorian Finney-Smith (10) celebrates after a play with teammate John Egbunu (15) during 
Florida's 81-78 win against Mississippi State on Tuesday in the O'Connell Center.
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
Needles isn't afraid to be vocal
“She just gets in your face, gets you 
hyped up and tells you not things that 
you necessarily want to hear, but things 
we need to hear.”
Simone Westbrook
junior guardReed
14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
with a broken hand. 
The Palm City native also 
started 11 games at first base, but 
with Peter Alonso entering the 
season healthy, Vasquez might be staying in the outfield. 
Vasquez was able to turn it on 
when UF made the postseason as he hit .378, and .476 (10-for-21) in the NCAA Tournament. 
Ryan Larson, junior
Larson was a solid contributor 
to last year’s team. 
The junior started 51 games, 
with 47 of those in right field and four in left. 
Larson hit .330 in SEC play, 
which ranked second on the 
team, and was 7-for-8 in stolen-
base attempts. 
Larson isn’t known for his bat, but he is solid in the outfield 
defensively and should continue 
that trend this year.
Key Newcomer: Danny 
Reyes
Reyes might be able to fight 
for some playing time this year along with Santa Fe transfer Nick 
Horvath. 
Reyes was the No. 38 recruit 
in the country, and the No. 2 
outfielder in Florida by Perfect 
Game. 
He cranked nine home runs in 
his senior season, a single-season 
school record, and helped Mater Academy High School to its first 
state title in history in his junior 
season. 
@LFTorresIII 
ltorres@alligator.orgqualified to lead. 
“You’re never going to question Carlie’s 
effort,” he said. “Those are the kind of kids 
that can lead — you can never question their effort, so they can demand things out of everybody around them.”
And Carlie demands a lot of her team-
mates.
“She’s the one to take you by your neck, 
you know?" Westbrook said. "She’ll get on your butt if you’re not doing things."
But the ability to lead and the desire to 
work hard are not her only intangibles — in fact, they might not even be her stron-gest. 
“The biggest thing you’ve gotta know 
about Carlie is what a competitor she is.” Bradley said.
When she was a freshman in high 
school, Needles traveled to Phoenix with her ThunderRidge High School squad for the Nike Tournament of Champions.
 Her Grizzlies were pitted against a 
team that featured a senior All-American in guard Nikki Speed, who went on to play collegiate basketball at Rutgers.
“Carlie went out and competed with her tooth-and-nail,” Bradley said. 
Needles ended up dropping 24 points 
compared to Speed’s 19.
She still brings that same desire to com-
pete and win every time she takes the court for UF, whether in a game or in practice.
Before any given game and before most 
practices, Carlie can be found taking shots well before any of her teammates make it to the court.
“All of the best players that I have 
coached, regardless of position, are gonna 
be the first people to get out,” assistant 
coach Bill Ferrara said. 
And usually, that’s Carlie.Those intangibles have resulted in a no-
table career as a Gator — one in which she ranks fifth in UF women’s basketball his-tory in made three pointers with 187, just seven behind fourth place. 
But when asked what Needles’ legacy 
will be when she’s gone next year, Butler didn’t point to any statistics or records —just the intangibles.
“The way that she works, her energy, 
the things that don’t show up on the stat sheet,” she said. 
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF guard Carlie Needles (right) and women's basketball assistant coach Bill Ferrara 
react after a play during Florida's loss to Georgia in the O'Connell Center.
WHOOPS,  from pg 13She's usually one of the first on the court during practices
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF outfielder Buddy Reed dives for a catch during Florida's win against Florida A&M in the 2015 NCAA Regionals at McKethan Stadium.
BASEBALL,  from pg 13The Gators return three outfielders with starting experienceAllen free throws put the game out 
of reach.
The Gators trailed 42-37 at half-
time, following a missed Kasey Hill layup and a made three by the Bulldogs’ Fred Thomas at the buzzer. 
An energy surge in the second 
half after falling behind by 11 at the 15:30 mark helped lift Florida 
to a win.
“It opened our eyes a lot,” Rob-
inson said, “and (let us know) 
that we just can't take games for granted.”
Dorian Finney-Smith led the 
Gators with 20 points and 13 re-
bounds. It was the redshirt se-
nior’s fourth double-double in Florida’s last five games and his first 20-point performance since 
Nov. 27.
Freshman KeVaughn Allen 
added 19 points with a game-high 
three triples, and Egbunu con-tributed 16 points and seven re-
bounds, his four made free throws 
in the final minute serving as the most important. 
“I missed a few (free throws) 
prior to that, and I decided to stick to my technique and just step up and hit the free throws with confi-dence,” Egbunu said.
Mississippi State (7-10, 0-5 
SEC) shot 44.8 percent from the field,  including 28.6 percent from beyond the arc and made 12-of-17 
free throws. Twenty of the Bull-
dogs’ points came off turnovers and 15 came via fast break op-portunities. Florida scored just six points off turnovers and two via 
fast break.
Ready, who averaged just 9.8 
points per game prior to Tuesday, 
led Mississippi State with 20. Se-
nior guard Craig Sword added 17 points, six rebounds, four assists 
and three steals. Freshman guards Quinndary Weatherspoon and 
Malik Newman added 14 and 12 
points, respectively.
The Bulldogs’ leading scorer, 
senior forward Gavin Ware, played just 15 minutes, scoring five points 
while grabbing only one rebound. 
Ware fouled out with 5:30 re-
maining in the game. Senior John-ny Zuppardo and freshman Aric 
Holman also fouled out late in the game for the Bulldogs.
After the game, Florida coach 
Mike White admitted that Ware's absence helped the Gators in the final few minutes. 
“I’m not sure that we came out 
with the right mentality. We can’t outscore people, and we were for-tunate to outscore them tonight,” White said. “Overall, any time that 
you can win an SEC game, you’ve 
got to feel good about it.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org
HOOPS,  from pg 13Finney-Smith recorded his fourth double-double in five games
“It opened our eyes a lot and 
(let us know) that we just can't 
take games for granted.”
Devin Robinson
UF sophomore forwardBy Brian Lee
Sports Writer
Heading into its upcoming 2016 cam-
paign, Florida’s softball team will rely on 
an abundance of experienced players in its infield. As UF attempts to win its third con-secutive national championship, its veteran 
infield will need to play a meaningful role. 
Here’s who to look for:
1. Kelsey Stewart, senior 
Stewart was one of the Gators’ most pro-
ductive offensive players last season, just like she has been throughout her career at Florida. 
An NFCA First Team All-American and 
the 2015 Southeastern Conference Player of the Year, Stewart boasts a career .417 bat-ting average and .476 on-base percentage — both the highest in program history. 
In 2015, Stewart posted a team-best .435 
batting average among players with more than 100 at bats and led the Gators in sever-al other major categories, compiling a team-leading 101 hits, 71 runs and 11 triples. 
This marked only the third time a player 
has reached the 100-hit mark in a single season. Similarly, Michelle Moultrie had 101 hits in 2011, while Stewart set the sin-gle-season record with 102 hits in 2014. 
Further adding to her accomplishments 
last season were a pair of five-RBI games in the span of a week — one at Mississippi State on March 28 and the other on April 4 
against South Carolina. 
Stewart also put together a career-best 
22-game hitting streak en route to reach-
ing base in 63 of the 67 games she started, making her one of the most feared hitters in 
Florida’s lineup. 
2. Aubree Munro, senior 
Florida’s leader behind the plate, Munro 
started 51 of her 57 games at catcher last 
season, with the Gators recording a 45-6 re-cord during those contests. 
Her impact on the team cannot be un-
derstated. Although she struggled offensively — 
hitting just .225 with 20 hits, 2 home runs and 15 RBI — she was at her best when the stakes were highest. 
In May and June, she batted .310 with a 
.444 on base percentage. 
Munro also hit .278 during the NCAA 
Tournament, including .348 with runners in scoring position. 
Defensively, however, Munro was im-pressive. 
In 2015, Munro gunned down eight of a 
potential 18 base-stealers, good enough for the highest percentage of runners thrown out in a season in UF history. 
Additionally, she did not commit an er-
ror in 354 chances, anchoring a Florida de-fense that only committed 33 errors all sea-son and ranked first in the nation with a 
.981 team fielding percentage. 
With the departure of standout pitcher 
Lauren Haeger, Munro’s veteran leadership 
will be essential, as she will be tasked with handling a pitching staff highlighted by stel-lar freshman Kelly Barnhill. 
3. Taylor Schwarz, senior  
Like Munro, Schwarz played a contribut-
ing role in Florida’s top-ranked defense in 2015. 
Seeing most of her playing time at first 
base, she only committed two errors in 218 
chances, notching a .991 fielding percent-
age in 59 appearances. 
A career .265 hitter with a .412 on-base 
percentage, Schwarz tied a personal best with four doubles and was a seamless 4-for-4 on stolen bases last season. 
She also was reliable in big opportuni-
ties, hitting a solid .294 with runners in scoring position. 
In the Gators’ championship-clinching 
game against Michigan on June 3, Schwartz hit a 2-RBI single in the bottom of the first inning that gave Florida a 3-0 lead on its way to a 4-1 victory.
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2016
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF softball coach Tim Walton (right) walks past his infielders huddle prior to Florida’s 
2-1 win against Florida Atlantic in the 2015 NCAA Super Regionals.
POSITION BREAKDOWNS
Florida softball returns experienced infield in 2016 