We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 143 TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
Mike Holloway and UF track 
and ﬁ  eld compete Friday 
The meet will honor former 
Florida coach T om Jones, pg. 15
Veterans, founders of Human Hug Project, 
stop in Gainesville
They ride their bicycles and give free hugs, pg. 3
UF equestrian team to compete
It's for the championship, pg. 5Art that speaks
Local multimedia artist paints 
with possessions, pgs. 8-9
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
STUDY BUDDIES
Copper, a 2-month-old Catahoula puppy, chews a stick next to Katie Callaghan as the 23-year-old UF mechanical engineering 
senior studies on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday afternoon for her ﬁ  nite element analysis exam.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Since November, UF’s ﬁ  rst Latina Stu-
dent Body President has donated over 
$5,000 of her salary to help ﬁ  rst-generation students.
“We do this job for the students, never 
for the perks,” she said.
Access Party won the Spring 2015 elec-
tion with the highest voter turnout in the last decade: 12,742 students. Access took a majority of Senate seats, a feat last ac-complished in 1999, according to Alligator archives.
Joselin Padron-Rasines, who won by 124 
votes, said the past year has been a chal-
lenge, both as president and in Senate.“I believe that we’ve deﬁ  nitely been a 
more visible administration,” she said.
Her administration’s term ends today.After winning last year’s election, Access 
began implementing its platform, she said.
During Summer, Student Body Treasurer 
Nicholas Carre said he amended the bud-
get, getting bipartisan approval between Access and Swamp. Padron-Rasines said her administration faced opposition since taking ofﬁ  ce.
“Being an independent party in Student 
Government is hard because there are sys-tematic problems,” she said.
During the ﬁ  rst weeks of ofﬁ  ce, Execu-
tive Branch agency chairs were left open for 105 days. Padron-Rasines, the vice pres-ident, the treasurer, the Senate president, the Senate pro-tempore and the Budget and Appropriations chair argued over nomina-
tions.
In the Fall, Padron-Rasines ﬁ  led a case 
to the UF Supreme Court, stating it was 
unconstitutional for those members to vote twice: once during the nomination process and once during the Senate approval pro-cess. The court ruled in her favor.  
Despite the tension in Senate, the three 
executive members made efforts to improve 
SG, Padron-Rasines said. 
Student Body Vice President Kevin Doan 
said the Health Affairs Cabinet hosted the 
ﬁ  rst Mental Health Awareness Week in No-vember to help promote on-campus student services and destigmatize mental illness.
“Student Government is just doing its 
part to help create that culture of care,” he said.Student Government: a year in review
Access relects on accomplishmentsLOCAL
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The ﬁ  rst phase of renovations for Paynes 
Prairie Preserve State Park’s Visitor Center since the 1980s is complete, and it cost about $700,000.
The renovated center, located at 100 Savan-
nah Blvd. in Micanopy, Florida, will have a ribbon-cutting ceremony Wednesday at 10 a.m. The center will be open to the public Thursday.
David Jowers, the park manager, said the 
center looked outdated before the renovations.
“We wanted it to be warmer and friendlier 
and more inviting from the moment the person walked in,” he said.
The ﬁ  rst phase of the renovated center was 
funded by grants and donations, said Amber Roux, the prairie’s park services specialist. 
The second phase will also cost about 
$700,000 and will focus on updating the exhib-its in the center. Money needs to be raised for the second phase of renovations, Roux said.  
The center’s exhibits — which feature differ-
ent ecosystems in the park — were expanded, but the displays have yet to be fully updated 
because of lack of funding. Roux said the reno-
vations to the center’s entrance, desk area and bathrooms make the center more accessible.
“It is a huge improvement to the park as far 
as our ability to … educate and inspire visitors about the various elements of the park,” she said.  Paynes Prairie 
renovates Visitor Center
SEE REVIEW,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Toastmasters meet Tuesdays
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets today at 5:45 p.m. 
in the Entomology Building, lo-
cated at 970 Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is wel-
come to attend and learn about 
Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkingga-tors.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. 
The mission of Toastmasters is 
to provide a supportive and posi-tive learning experience through which members are empowered 
to develop communication and 
leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and per-sonal growth.
Robotics Demos at UF
Robot demo day at UF will take place Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
It will include demonstra-
tions of at least 10 robots built by students in this semester’s Intelligent Machines Design Laboratory course. 
This may be the last robot dem-
onstration day of its kind at UF, but it will definitely be the last one until December 2017. Several other robots from the Machine Intelligence Lab will be displayed, including the robots 
from its past world champion 
competition teams: the robot boat (PropaGator) and the robot submarine (SubjuGator). See 
mil.ufl.edu/5666/robot_info_s16 
for more info.
Workshop on Academic 
Engagement in China
The UF International Center in-
vites faculty to attend a work-shop on academic engagement in China on Wednesday from 10 
a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in the Large 
Conference Room at the UF International Center. The forum will consist of two different panels: a regulatory 
one and a programmatic one. 
Panel one, led by Dr. Angel Kwolek-Folland of the Office of the Provost and Ana Spiguel 
of the General Counsel Office 
will address administrative is-sues. Danling Fu of the College of Education and Yuncong Li of the UF Tropical Research and 
Education Center will discuss 
faculty experiences in panel two. The discussion, moderated by Dean Leonardo Villalón of the UF International Center, will be centered on the questions, “What are our goals for aca-demic engagement with China?” 
and “What support is needed 
for accomplishing these goals?” Please register at Eventbrite.com (search by event title). For 
more information, contact Alexis 
Weisman or call 352-273-1537.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 143
HIGH  84° LOW  54°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
It was one vision in between end-
less nightmares that inspired a former 
United States Marine Corps sergeant.
Half a decade in the military and 
a bloody war in Iraq left 35-year-old 
Ian Michael mentally scarred, the 
worst of his wounds invisible.
Michael said he would often wake 
up covered in sweat after images of combat invaded his head. Post-trau-matic stress disorder ensured each night went the same.
“I knew they were dreams, but I woke up f----d up in my head,” Mi-chael said.
One night in 2014, Michael found 
a moment of peace.
He dreamt of riding a bicycle 
across the country, giving hugs to strangers he passed.
“Oh my god — I was so happy,” 
he said.
Since January 2015, Michael has 
ridden his bicycle about 2,500 miles to 12 Veterans Affairs Hospitals. 
Once inside, he carries signs that 
read “Free Hugs.”
Marine veteran Sgt. Gino Greganti 
and his wife, Erin Greganti, joined Michael on the voyage. On Friday, after bicycling from Panama City on April 12, the group visited Gaines-
ville’s Malcolm Randall VA Medi-
cal Center and then continued their journey south. The last stop will be Miami before the group, dubbed the Human Hug Project, returns to Nash-ville, Tennessee.
For Gino Greganti, who served 
in Afghanistan for about eight years, it was a social worker’s hug that 
changed his outlook on life.
After three hours in the emergen-
cy room and a discussion with an on-
call psychiatrist, Gino Greganti met with the social worker.
“I’m not supposed to do this, but 
you look like you could use a hug,” 
the woman said.
Gino Greganti said the hug broke 
down a wall he had built to isolate 
himself after the war.
“It turned on a light inside of me,” 
he said.
Then, in April 2015, Gino Gre-
ganti reconnected with his old friend Michael after 10 years of separation.
They met in Tennessee and de-
cided they would ride their bikes around the country, hugging veter-ans and resting in the team’s Jeep when needed.
The group has spent about 
$25,000 of its own money to fund 
the trips, but it has received about 
$20,000 in donations.
The project, Gino Greganti said, is 
an act of kindness meant to change the way people think about interact-ing with one another.
“What we’ve experienced on this 
journey is humanity,” he said.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.org Veterans, founders of Human Hug Project stop in Gainesville4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
When it came to advocating for 
lowering graduate student fees, 
Padron-Rasines said she made her voice heard during Board of Trust-ees meetings.
“Graduate students are stu-
dents. I’m Student Body President. It’s part of my role,” she said.  
UF’s Graduate Assistants United 
reached an agreement with UF for a $430 raise and a $50 fee relief in January, according to Alligator ar-chives.
SG also successfully advocated 
for Norman Hall funding.
Matthew Hoeck, director of 
External Affairs, said SG took stu-dents to Tallahassee to advocate for the College of Education’s building. UF secured $14.1 million from the Florida Legislature.
“I think those kind of cam-
paigns were very successful, and I hope that they continue,” Hoeck said.
Carre and the Dean of Students 
Ofﬁ  ce worked to create the Gator Career Closet, from which students can borrow professional clothes. 
It is set to open in Summer B, 
Padron-Rasines said.
SG has also established 63 gen-
der-neutral bathrooms across cam-pus in housing, the Reitz Union and academic buildings.
Padron-Rasines said her admin-
istration was able to better serve students by donating their salaries to the Machen Florida Opportunity 
Scholars Program.
“The students aren’t there to 
serve your own political desires or 
your own political ambitions,” she said. “You’re in this position be-cause students elected you to serve them.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgREVIEW,  from pg 1SG established 63 gender-neutral bathrooms across campusAN INFORMATION SESSION WILL 
BE HELD ON WEDNESDAY.
By Amanda DioGuardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new UF club will teach students to 
bake next Fall.
Jozie Fuller, a UF journalism freshman, 
posted on the UF Class of 2019 Facebook 
page Wednesday, asking students if they 
would want to start a baking club. -
Fuller said she did not think the idea 
would get the reaction it did.
“My inbox is exploding with kids who 
are excited to help or are just thanking 
me for putting the idea out there,” the 19-year-old said.
The club will allow students to share 
and learn recipes while de-stressing from schoolwork, she said.Fuller said she hopes the club will 
serve as a relaxation outlet for students.
“I honestly just want members to have 
fun, learn a few new skills and make a lot of new friends,” she said.  
She plans to hold the ﬁ  rst information 
session Wednesday at noon on the Plaza of the Americas. Registration for new stu-dent organizations begins in August, and Fuller is working on making Shakin’ Ba-
kin’ Gators an ofﬁ  cial UF club.
She’s still ﬁ  guring out funding and a 
meeting space, she said.
Joshua Karg, a UF history freshman, 
said he hopes to learn dessert recipes from his peers.
“I would love to learn to make a killer 
key lime pie,” the 19-year-old said. “It’s 
one of my favorite desserts, but I don’t 
think my own recipe does it justice.”UF students organizing 
baking club for next Fall By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF is asking students where they like to eat 
and hang out.
UF emailed the survey to 52,000 students 
April 7 as part of its strategic development 
plan, in which the university is asking stu-dents how to make UF and the area surround-ing campus better, said Jodi Gentry, the as-
sistant vice president for UF Human Resource 
Services. The survey will be open until Thurs-day.
For the survey, students use an interactive 
map to click on where they live, eat, socialize 
and feel the least safe. Students drag a cursor 
to the address of where they go.
“It’s designed to give people an opportuni-
ty to indicate how they interact with campus,” 
Gentry said. “What could we do better?”
Before it went online, she said they started 
conducting interviews with students in Febru-
ary. They’ll continue the survey through Fall.After that, analysts will use information 
and make a list of ideas to improve the cam-
pus and Gainesville. Gentry said UF is work-
ing with the city and county on this plan.
“It’s the idea that a great college town 
makes a great university,” she said.
Ilene Morgan, a UF applied physiology 
and kinesiology freshman, said she hopes UF 
brings healthier food options to campus.
“I’m happy they are asking students how 
we feel because we are the ones that are im-
pacted,” the 18-year-old said.
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF looks for ideas to improve
“It’s designed to give people an 
opportunity to indicate how they 
interact with campus. What could we 
do better?”
Jodi Gentry
assistant vice president for UF Human 
Resource ServicesCAMPUS
Access For Accessibility
✔ Online Voting 
✔ 24-Hour Marston
✘ Extend SG printing to  
Library West and Marston
✔ Increase gender-neutral 
single-stall bathrooms on campus
✘ Appointment of a chief 
diversity ofﬁ  cer to work toward being a top-10 public institutionAccess For Accountability
✘ Reform Senate constituency requirements with monthly town halls and weekly ofﬁ  ce hours for every senator
✔ Make Docutraq, the SG 
ﬁ  nancial system, open to all students so they know where their Activity and Services Fee go
✔/✘ Cut all student 
government ofﬁ  cials’ salariesAccess For Aﬀ  ordability
✔/✘ Decrease student fees for graduate students
✔ Lobby against tuition 
hikes
✔ Lobby for The Florida 
Bright Futures Scholarship Program to cover the Summer semester
✔ Completed
✘ Incomplete✔/✘ Partially CompletedBy Renee Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will gracefully ride 
horses for judges this weekend.
Five UF students will com-
pete in the Intercollegiate Dres-
sage Association’s 2016 National Championship in New Jersey. The students will ride as part of 
UF’s dressage team, on which the 
riders are evaluated by how they conduct the horses to be obedi-ent, ﬂ  exible and balanced.
Two students will participate 
in the individual competitions Saturday, and a four-rider team will compete Sunday.
Alexis Rossetti, a UF political science and international studies sophomore, competed in IDA’s 
national Upper Training class last 
year. This is the second-highest level participants can compete in.
She qualiﬁ  ed to ride individu-
ally and will also compete in the 
team competition, the 19-year-old 
said.
One rider on the team will 
compete in each of the four lev-els: First Level, Upper Training, Lower Training and Introductory 
Level. She said horses and riders 
are matched randomly, and riders are judged on a 10-point scale.
“I like the commitment that it 
takes, and the relationship with the horse is really important,” she said.
Ashley Vickers began coaching 
the UF dressage team in August. 
She studied sport psychology in 
college, which has shaped the way she teaches the riders, she said.
She leads the women through 
mental relaxation exercises to help them focus and encourages her riders to do physical work-outs.
Before the riders compete, she 
spends 10 minutes helping them warm up, she said. She asks how they feel while riding their hors-es.
“We are working together: the 
horse, the coach and the rider,” Vickers said. “Now we’re not just going to nationals — we’re going 
to do well at nationals.”TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
A ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thAlligator Advertisers 
The Alligator will not be publishing fromA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thThursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9th
The Deadline for Tuesday, May 12th is
Friday, May 6th by 4:00 pmFriday, May 6th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed 
Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume 
publication again on 
Tuesday, May 10thAlligator Advertisers Alligator Advertisers 
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
 Courtesy to the Alligator
Alexis Rossetti, a 19-year-old UF political science and international studies sophomore, is one of ﬁ  ve 
UF students who will compete in the Intercollegiate Dressage Association’s 2016 National Champion-ship in New Jersey on Saturday and Sunday. 
By Rebecca White
Alligator Contributing Writer
Nicole Meeks learned her nutri-
tional science major won’t limit her future opportunities on Monday.
The 20-year-old sophomore was 
one of about 70 who attended UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Scienc-es Sophomore Leadership Semi-nar’s ﬁ  rst Anti-Major Fair in the Reitz Union. Members of the semi-
nar held the event for exploratory 
majors and freshmen.
They decided to hold the event 
as part of their end-of-the-year 
project, said Madison Harris-Parks, 
a UF English sophomore and an or-ganizer for the event. They’ve been 
planning it since February.
“The purpose of the event is 
to get students thinking about the ﬂ  exibility and opportunity that 
comes with majors within the Col-
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences,” the 20-year-old said.
Six alumni spoke about their 
experiences at UF and their careers 
after graduation. Representatives 
from the Peace Corps and the UF Center for Leadership and Service 
also spoke.
Harris-Parks said skills learned 
in the college can be used for many 
jobs.
“We don’t want students to feel limited if they choose a CLAS ma-jor,” she said.
She wants students to know 
their major doesn’t determine their future.
“A lot of people think they have 
to know what career they want before they even get to college,”  
Harris-Parks said. “But if you’re 
unsure, college is the perfect place 
to explore all the different possibili-
ties.”
Meeks said she felt lost and 
hopeless as an exploratory major 
last year.  
“This fair gives a lot of hope to 
students who were in my position 
as a freshman,” she said.UF hosts ﬁ  rst Anti-Major Fair in ReitzCAMPUS
UF equestrian team to compete
It’s for the championshipThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMyths Un-Mythed: 
reality versus 
imagination
We live in a world full of myths. Never mind the tales 
of a big, green, gamma-radiated “Avenger” who, for some reason, seems to break through every ar-ticle of clothing except his shorts, or the tales of a “hell week” that drain all happiness and restful-
ness from students as they descend in a Walking Dead-like fashion upon their neighborhood libraries and Starbucks, in-discriminately feasting on raw study guides and fresh coffee.
No, we want to get down to the nitty-gritty of the real 
issues facing our society, unﬁ  ltered by widely accepted or unchallenged falsehoods. And for our ﬁ  fth and last install-ment of “Myths Un-Mythed” this semester, we thought we’d showcase an issue inherent to this very series: reality. Where do we draw the line separating imagination and myths from 
reality, and what does the resultant distinction suggest?
Our opinions editor has been using this notion of myths 
once a week without, ﬁ  rst, conﬁ  dently establishing what 
myths are. And as a result, we’ve been getting some pretty impassioned emails and voicemails from fairy unions and Inhuman Resources — damn it, David. You had one job. Time to rectify this poor boy’s mistakes.
Is Harry Potter real? Most would argue no. He lacks a tan-
gible form and serves no “practical” function in day-to-day 
life. But we at the Alligator disagree. Reality is a tough thing 
to pin down because of how it differs among individual out-looks. While you may have grown up on the Red Hot Chili Peppers (a ﬁ  ne choice, by the way), your companion might proclaim to “just really not be much into music.”
For you, music is life, love, beauty and energy. But for 
your companion, it’s just white noise in the car on the way to Costco. Reality matters, but perceptions of that reality matter even more, sociologically speaking.  
Think about it: Everything in this world may be real, but 
the items in your own life — your family, friends, Amazon gift cards — are more real because they matter more to you. Even prominent ﬁ  gures like former Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush are technically real, but they remain nearly forgotten in the dustbins of antiquated history, beg-ging for spare claps.
Meanwhile, the recent “Star Wars” installment — a sup-
posed fantasy — united millions upon millions of people 
from across the world in shared excitement and joy. The 
same goes for the other myths we’ve cheekily referenced in this “Myths” series: the tooth fairy, Pinocchio, Batman and such. Given the degree of breath and life these characters and movie franchises give us, are they not in a way more real than us all? Surely, they at least matter more than our opinions editor.
It’s the things that resonate with us that feel most real. 
It doesn’t matter that Ron Swanson is technically ﬁ  ctional. 
His inﬂ  uence on modern manhood and impact on the mous-
tached community remains unchallenged. And it doesn’t matter that Santa Claus might be — actually, no: He’s real. But if he were ﬁ  ctional, it wouldn’t matter because the spirit of joy and selﬂ  essness he embodies, the “Christmas spirit,” is as real as can be.
At this point, you may be thinking “Am I real?” Well, 
have no fear. We’ve Un-Mythed the notion that this even matters. Go out there and be who you want to be, superstar. 
Just don’t beg for claps — that’s how you lose the magic.
Friends: Everything and nothing has changed
There’s something about the end of 
the Spring semester that provokes a certain type of introspection. Daily 
rituals, people and locations take on a 
deeper meaning as you assess how far 
you’ve come and where the hell you actually plan on going. It’s a discomforting mixture 
of nostalgia for another year gone by and the 
hesitant acknowledgement that time will con-tinue to move at this swift pace. Everything you encounter becomes a symbol of change as friends continue to graduate and you’re left with a 
completely different Gainesville than the one you ﬁ  rst 
encountered so long ago. In reality, these thoughts are most likely a thinly veiled attempt at procrastination, but that doesn’t make them any less profound.
Surprisingly enough, the catalyst of my own “end-
of-semester introspection” was a recent weekend trip to Tallahassee. It was the ﬁ  rst time all of my close friends had been together since the summer after high-school graduation, and I genuinely had no idea what to expect. 
While I had seen them all individually over the years, 
the promise of a revived high-school dynamic was simul-taneously terrifying and thrilling. When I eventually re-turned to Gainesville, I was probed for tales of debauch-
ery as though I’d spent a week in Vegas, and I found 
myself apologizing for a marked lack of scandalous tales.
If the weekend had a theme (aside from the pizza-
themed birthday party I was there for), it would be, “Ev-erything changes, and everything stays the same.” My 
friends were exactly as I’d left them in 2013, with their 
aggravating and lovable quirks intact. Sitting at dinner with them and exchanging jabs and inside jokes instantly transported me back to our days in the crowded, raucous 
high-school cafeteria. I hadn’t expected everything to re-
main so constant. It seemed as if the last few years had no effect on us.
I quickly realized that, while all of us re-
mained identical to our younger selves at the 
core, it was the interactions with our envi-
ronments that had changed. With gradua-tion, higher education and the working world looming over our heads, it was only inevitable 
that we grew up. In the summer of 2011, we 
spent hours ﬂ  oating in a Georgia lake until we pruned, planning our lives as neurosur-geons, photographers and professional drift-
ers. Adulthood seemed like a distant mirage at the time; 
but sitting across from them in Tallahassee, I realized it 
was already happening. “Aren’t we still 15?” we asked as we discussed doctoral degrees and LSAT law school aptitute tests.
Yet perhaps the most noticeable change was that Sun-
day morning. Gone were the morning-after pilgrimages to Dunkin’ Donuts, inhaling stale bagels in pajamas and recollecting whatever questionable decisions we had made the night before. We went to an 8:30 a.m. brunch 
instead.
When my mother told me high school would be the 
best four years of my life, I was dubious to say the least. 
Though I still look back on that time in my life with gen-
eral apathy, it was those few friends who made any of 
it worthwhile and have continued to remind me how far I’ve come. Unlike the friends you make in college, old friends see you as the combination of multiple selves, and they understand the transitions that brought you to 
where you are today. Thus, when you continue to ﬁ  nd 
yourself engaging in end-of-the-semester reﬂ  ections, looking to these friends will force you to realize that ev-erything and nothing has changed.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
So, it’s my ﬁ  nal column of the se-
mester. I’d say it was a pleasure writing for you all, but that’d be 
a lie. Y’all are kind of preten-
tious, to be honest. It makes me 
uncomfortable to be around you.
This semester I’ve advocated fart 
jokes, rape jokes, profane jokes, clever jokes and satirical jokes. And every week I was applauded for my genius and of-fered many potential brides. I’ve acquired ﬁ  ve new cows since the beginning of April from courting 
alone. Someone gave me a goat with a lazy eye, 
but I sent it back. I couldn’t trust the thing.
How do I ﬁ  nish off my semester strong? That’s 
easy: I’ll talk about comedy.
So, here’s a question I probably should have 
answered six weeks ago: What is comedy? That’s easy, too: Comedy makes people laugh. But that doesn’t really describe what it is. Well, then, it’s about irony. But that doesn’t say much about what 
form comedy takes. Is it just a concept or an ethe-
real entity from which the most eldritch of cults have developed? No. To both. Comedy is a puzzle.
“A puzzle? That’s silly.” No, it’s not. See how I 
put words in your mouth there? Ain’t I a stinker?
What’s a puzzle? A puzzle is a problem with a 
solution. The most important thing about a well-constructed puzzle, though, is this: You’re given all the information necessary to solve it, and it’s 
up to you to make logical connections between 
those bits of information to provide an answer. Well, that’s what comedy is.
Comedy is about irony: subversion of expecta-
tion. The core engagement of comedy is identify-ing the disconnect between expectation and re-ality. How and why was your or someone else’s expectation subverted? That’s the question you’re trying to answer as you listen to a joke. In this 
way, comedy is a puzzle: By the time you’re told 
the punchline, you have all the information neces-sary to solve the puzzle and realize the subversion of expectation that took place. It’s up to you to 
make that connection, though. That’s why it’s not 
funny when we have to explain a joke.
Here’s an example: puns. When you understand 
a pun, the subversion of expectation is, “That word isn’t supposed to have that deﬁ  nition within 
that context!” To disparage bad wind is dis-gust-
ing. You shouldn’t read the word “disgusting” and think about wind. That’s the irony. That is where expectation subverts reality.Another example: cartoons. Wile E. 
Coyote is the only one who thinks he isn’t going to get hurt as a result of his 
schemes; the audience and the Road 
Runner know he’ll get hurt. That’s dra-matic irony. Slapstick is yet another case of irony. Wile E. Coyote ﬂ  attens to be 
paper-thin when a rock lands on him 
— we consider how we’ve seen things ﬂ  atten, but we know that logic wouldn’t 
apply to coyotes.
Basically, constructing and analyzing comedy is 
critical thinking. Comedy is stimulating. It’s cre-ative. It makes us juxtapose what we perceive and what is true. It makes us create relationships be-tween things that otherwise wouldn’t be related. 
In this way, comedy is constructive. It’s not mind-
less — not even slapstick can be watched passively if you take the time to analyze it.
This is why I ﬁ  ght for comedy, and this is why 
I want comedy to be boundless in its subject mat-ter. It’s an engaging activity, and we can practice it every day in casual conversation. You don’t even have to write jokes. To understand why you laugh is already an interesting collection of puzzles to 
solve. Comedy gets a bad stigma, but it’s really 
just a silly way of being thoughtful.  Plus, comedy makes you giggle. I like giggles.
Michael Smith just wants love, but he doesn’t 
want to be weird about it. So, he slips it casually in his bylines on Tuesdays.Comedy and jigsaw puzzles leave me in puzzlesColumn
Animal welfare is an issue of-ten overlooked 
by a vast ma-
jority of people. 
When consuming ani-mal products, individu-
als often don’t realize 
the suffering and pain that results from the in-dustry. As a society, it is important for us to understand 
the origins of the products we 
consume and to place economic pressure on companies that ex-hibit blatant disregard for animal 
suffering. Together, we have the 
ability to effect positive change in the industry by manipulating sup-ply and demand, a process that has proven to be tremendously ef-
fective thus far. The recent policy 
shifts of the Carnival Corporation and Royal Caribbean Cruises are just two examples of the power 
consumers have to sway the poli-
cies of large corporations.
Carnival and Royal Caribbean, 
two of the largest cruise service providers in the world, have re-
cently committed to switching 
over to 100-percent-cage-free eggs on all of their ships within the next decade. Royal Caribbean 
announced in December it would 
complete the transition by 2022, and Carnival followed suit a few weeks later, declaring a goal date of 2025.
Cage-free eggs stray from the 
standard methods employed by most industrial farms, in which battery cages are used for the 
purpose of efﬁ  ciency. Chickens 
in cages are kept extremely close together with very little room to move. They cannot spread their wings, nor can they lay eggs in 
nests. In fact, the battery cages in 
which these chickens have to live the entirety of their short lives are often the size of a single piece of 
letter-sized paper. As a result of 
this intensive conﬁ  nement, many chickens end up pecking and bit-ing at one another in an effort to get more space.
Although chickens are still 
locked inside without being able to venture outdoors in cage-free farming, this method allows the 
animals to stretch their wings, 
make nests and dust-bathe. These small improvements provide chickens with much better lives. Unfortunately, cage-free egg 
farming is still inherently cruel, 
with chicks having the tip of their beaks burned off, male chicks be-ing killed soon after hatching and 
other chickens being slaughtered 
at a very young age. Still, by en-couraging companies to make the switch, millions of chickens in the future will have a much bet-
ter quality of life than those that 
came before.Carnival and Royal 
Caribbean are now part of a growing trend of 
large companies that 
have responded to pub-lic pressure by changing their policies. They’ve 
joined the ranks of 
companies including Subway, the Costco Wholesale Corporation 
and Dunkin’ Donuts that have 
recently announced timelines for 
switching over to cage-free eggs. The cruise companies are par-ticularly relevant to residents of 
Florida because their headquar-
ters are located in the state. The proximity they have to us as busi-nesses allows us to exert more pressure, as it is ultimately the 
citizens and tourists in our state 
who utilize their services. As can 
be seen in this example, we can levy tremendous pressure on the 
other companies that source ani-
mal products from farms that use inhumane practices. The transi-tion from battery-cage to cage-
free eggs is a step in the right di-
rection for the egg industry, but it isn’t the ﬁ  nal step in the ﬁ  ght for animal rights.  
As consumers, it is important 
to understand the inﬂ  uence we have in reforming industry prac-tices, regardless of the social is-sue. The only way to force the 
hands of massive corporations is 
to make change ﬁ  nancially nec-essary. By consuming products from businesses that are more 
aware of animal rights, we create 
a standard for all industries. And by applying continuous pressure on companies that maintain un-ethical policies, we can strive for 
progress in all industries. With 
consistent and organized pres-sure, we can persuade all compa-nies to adopt this vital shift and 
ensure increased animal welfare.
Praveen Varanasi is the presi-
dent of Vegan Eating for Gators 
and a campus coordinator for The Humane League.The power of consumerism in 
animal welfare and social justice Guest column
BEN CARSON
RepublicanNew job – Nanny, 
Childcare provider
When parents go to 
work, they want to leave their toddlers with a steady-handed, 
capable and unassuming guard-
ian. Dr. Ben Carson is just that man. He was a neurosurgeon, so it’s a good bet he can change a diaper. His unintelligible, semi-
conscious speech patterns will 
also help him relate to the ba-bies.
MARTIN O’MALLEYDemocratNew job – Performing musi-
cian
This one’s actually true! Did you know O’Malley is in a seven-member Irish pub rock band? I have absolutely 
no idea why he didn’t just stick 
with this; it’s such a promising career. In fact, if he had gone up there in the debates and just played some rockin’ tunes dur-
ing the intermissions, I think he 
would have gotten more votes.MIKE HUCKABEERepublican
New job – Who cares?
Mike who? Huckabee? Oh 
yeah, he ran in 2008, I think. What else did he do? Ah, gov-
ernor of Arkansas. What’s his 
stance on abortion and gay mar-riage, then? Haha, no I’m just joking! I could probably guess. Oh, that’s right, alternative job. 
I honestly don’t care: maybe a 
bank teller, phone salesman, that guy who screams and sells Bibles in the subway — or noth-
ing, whatever. What’s his name 
again?
A version of this satirical ad 
by Nico Tuccillo originally ran in the Harvard Political Review.For hire: former presidential candidatesUWire
Nico Tuccillo
UWirePraveen 
Varanasi
Speaking Out
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org
“In this way, comedy is 
a puzzle: By the time 
you're told the punchline, 
you have all the 
information necessary 
to solve the puzzle and 
realize the subversion 
of expectation that took 
place.”“As a society, it 
is important for 
us to understand 
the origins of the 
products we consume 
and to place 
economic pressure 
on companies that 
exhibit blatant 
disregard for 
animal sufering.”of experimenting with art.
Painting with a Twist hired 
Horner to teach people the art of 
painting on canvas and drinking 
wine.  
She also sells her work at 
Gainesville art markets, Artwalk 
and directly to customers who 
commission her.
“I’m not a 9-to-5 person,” she 
said. “I like being scattered. I feel more comfortable that way.”
      
To Horner, art is another form 
of storytelling.
When local sisters lost their 
mother to cancer several years ago, they saved sentimental mate-rials to help them remember.
Horner said the project is her 
most sentimental yet, and that she will make the sisters something that lasts forever.
Her yoga instructor, Samantha 
Jones, found fabric at a friend’s 
garage sale and commissioned 
Horner to use the material years later.
The friend was moving away, 
and Jones wanted something to keep them close.
“I kept holding on to it for three 
years,” Jones said. “I didn’t know how to get rid of it, because I liked 
it so much.”
Horner offered to incorporate 
the fabric into a painting. She of-
ten uses fabric as a stencil or to 
add texture to paintings.
“It’s just kind of interesting 
because there’s that repetition 
of, ‘It’s going to be in my house and I’m supporting another artist by commissioning the painting,’” 
Jones said. “It’s sentimental to me 
in that way.”
Creekside Community Church 
recently commissioned Horner to 
collect materials from the entire congregation and use them in a big painting for the church.
She said it will be her ﬁ  rst time 
creating a materials painting for an entire community of people.
“I’m hoping I can ﬁ  nd some re-
ally great stories in there,” Horner said. “I’m collecting materials in the next couple weeks and then I’m gonna get crankin’ on that 
one.”
      
Sometimes Horner struggles, 
but she wouldn’t change a thing.  
Her peers said pursuing an art 
degree was a waste of time and 
money. She said seven people enrolled in her program and less than half now work in the ﬁ  eld 
full-time.
Many people, she said, quickly 
ﬁ  nd out whether art should be 
their career or hobby.
“There’s a really ﬁ  ne line there, 
and I think it comes down to dis-cipline.”
Though she didn’t sell a sin-
gle piece in February and her 
car broke down the same month, 
Horner said she stays optimistic.
“It’s tough, but I don’t think 
‘Why art?’ has ever been a ques-tion for me,” she said. “It’s always 
been, ‘This is what I do. This is 
who I am.’”
In March, she sold 12 pieces. Horner said she prefers to do 
what she loves and do it well. The future, she said, is bright.
“I have deﬁ  nitely had moments 
where I have kicked a painting down a staircase, sat on the ﬂ  oor and cried wondering where rent 
would come from,” she said. “But 
even then, my brain has never even come to a place where I thought that there was something else out there for me.” 
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Also available at:
Pulled Pork
Sandwich + Fries$5
FREE Gift Certificates • Vo uchers • Coupons
April 18TH - 24TH
Download the FREE
Gift Certiﬁcates & More App.1 2Signup for Free. 3Head to Texas Roadhouse for$5 pulled pork sandwiches!How to participate
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Jenna Horner prefers dead 
ﬂ  owers.
Her studio — a subleased room 
in a friend’s Gainesville home — is full of ﬂ  owers hung upside-down, pinned to twine and dried along the walls.
A chest ﬁ  lled with fabric col-
lected from customers sits under a loft bed, and an easel holds works in progress an arm’s length away.
Her paint-covered desk is lit-
tered with scraps, prints, samples, an Apple computer and a pot of homemade paste.
The voice of Aretha Franklin vi-
brates from her record player and out the window through which a spring breeze makes its way in-side.
The 24-year-old sees art in a 
different light. Dead ﬂ  owers and pieces of tattered cloth can be ar-ranged into a story that says some-thing about the materials’ owner.
“Part of the fun for me is kind 
of chasing that narrative and ﬁ  nd-ing something really special,” she said.
      Horner’s family moved to 
Gainesville when she was 10.
She considers Alachua County her true home, because it’s where most of her memories took place.
After graduating from Kanap-
aha Middle School and Buchholz High School, Horner decided it was time for something new, so she moved to Orlando and attend-ed Valencia College.
“I didn’t know what I wanted 
to do, and I wanted to explore,” she said. “I felt like I would learn more by going somewhere else.”Horner quickly learned she hat-
ed the city.
She missed the small-town feel 
of Gainesville, where she recog-nized people at the grocery store and had a network of friends and family.
“I’m a big fan of simplicity 
in general — in my work and in life,” she said. “Being in Orlando, things were just so much more complicated. People weren’t very 
friendly, and it just felt like a very 
temporary place.”
In 2012, she took a break from 
Valencia and took a summer oil 
painting class at Santa Fe College.
Horner learned more in one 
summer than she had in all her 
time in Orlando. Her professor, Dan Stepp, then convinced her to 
apply for UF’s advanced painting 
program.
Her life changed with the open-
ing of an acceptance letter.
From 2013 to 2014, she studied 
painting and perfected her pas-sion. Her last project as a student would inspire her career to come.
“I was experimenting with 
working with multiple materials and implementing my old things in my paintings,” she said. “I found when I graduated that I wanted to 
kind of continue experimenting.”
Now, two years after gradua-
tion, Horner has made a career out Art that speaks: Local multimedia artist paints with possessions
Molly Donovan / Alligator Staff
Horner examines one of her pieces in her Gainesville studio. Though she makes art to sell, she also 
makes art for pleasure, like the piece she holds.She grew up in GainesvilleLEFT:
Pictured are the dried ﬂ  owers Horner has collected from cus-tomers and hung to preserve for use in art.
BELOW:
Jenna Horner, left, shows sam-ples of the art she is making for her yoga instructor, Samantha Jones. Horner is a Gainesville-based multimedia artist who in-corporates people’s belongings into her works.
Photos by Molly Donovan / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
●● ELLIE’S HOUSES ●●
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer 
$300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1203 & 1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        5-10-16-6-2
Great Family Home For Rent 4BR/3BA 2,344 sq ft Sterling Place at Blues Creek 5007 NW 69th PL. Wood & ceramic flrs, all appliances, close to Talbot Elem. $1,995/mo call or text 352-494-3277       5-10-16-6-2
Beautiful Condo for Rent in Casablanca 2635 SW 35th Pl unit 1101 new wood flrs in BR new ceramic tile in LR 2BR 1-1/2 BA water incl. Location close to UF, shops & downtown $750/mo call/text 352-494-3277    5-10-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE 5 Bed/ 2 Bath, Great Downtown location, 2 balconies, wood floors, great character. 320 NW 1st St. $2,500/mo. Call 352-377-3110 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu        4-20-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the 
Alligator Classifieds.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
FOR SALE Well Loved, Well maintained, & Well Raced Tri Gear1 55 cm LITESPEED SABER TRI BIKE, 9 sp DA, New Seat, Excellent wheels, Oval Trailing Front Brake, Ouzo Aero Pro fork, Integrated Profile Design aero bar/bull horns, XLab bottle holders - $950 700C ZIP TUBULAR WHEELS 303 Front, 404 Rear, SS blade spokes- $650700C PROTOTYPE ROLF 12 bladed spoke front wheel - $75700C clincher tires/tubes FREE w wheel or bike purchaseThis stuff led to 65 podium placings, I've moved on to adventure cyclingcoachallen@rehabtoracing.com or Text to 571-213-0254                    4-19-16-5-9  
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
●●● NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ●●●
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
●●●SCOOTER REPAIR ●●●
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished4 Roommates 2For Rent
unfurnished 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsSunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Designated drivers are the greatestSun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ● Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ● Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ACROSS
1 “Yeah, like that’s
gonna happen”
5 “That’s clear
now”
9 Honored with a
big bash
14 New Jersey or
California city
15 French
champagne
maker founded inGermany
16 Bakery lure17 Maximum impact
19 Olympic racer
since 2008
20 Staggering dizzily
21 Get dizzy23 “__ out!”25 Suffix with switch26 DJ’s stack27 Accessory for
note-taking
31 __ Wiedersehen
33 Lang. of Florence34 Close pal40 Slush __41 JFK overseer42 Food Network’s
“Beat Bobby __”
43 Healthy, with “in”
47 IRS agent48 Ukr. neighbor49 Softball of a
question
51 Little newt54 Pokes fun at57 Baseball : ump ::
football : __
58 Beach footwear61 British elevators65 What the suffix
“phile” means
66 Achilles’ heel
68 Stood
69 Italian automaker
since 1899
70 Melt fish
71 Tentative bite72 Airing, as a
sitcom
73 Safecracker
DOWN
1 __ Romeo:
sports car
2 Like lemons3 Doing nothing4 Office cabinet
document holder
5 Texter’s “If you
ask me”
6 Browse websites
7 Oscars host, e.g.8 Mideast VIP9 British Invasion
nickname
10 Humorist
Bombeck
11 Poisonous12 Correct, as text13 Game that drives
home a point?
18 Envelope part22 Pumpernickel
buy
24 U.K. fliers27 Annoy28 Storage case for
tiny scissors
29 “Death in Venice”
author Thomas
30 Senseless32 Six for you, six
for me, e.g.
35 Posed36 Bit of folklore37 Giggly Muppet38 Tandoori bread
39 Physics unit44 On the house
45 Disney’s “__ and
the Detectives”
46 Place for a hoop50 Get bought up
quickly
51 Key above D
52 Fauna’s partner
53 Records for later,
in a way
55 Super, at the box
office56 Where rain falls
mainly on theplain
59 Bothersome
insect
60 Doc’s “Now!”62 Santa’s access63 Zesty flavor64 Loot
67 Off-road
transport, 
briefly
By Bruce Haight©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/19/1604/19/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, April 19, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 WantedTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Cloud 9 is a busy day spa searching for happy, qualified people for our Support Staff team. Must be flexible, reliable & available at least 20 hrs per wk incl Saturdays.Great pay & discounts! Visit cloud9spa.com to ap-ply.   4-19-16-5-14
1 Person to cook and clean for elderly wom-an in small apt.  Tower Oaks Glen. Must be dependable. Call 9am - 5pm 352-318-0711  5-10-16-5-4
PT experienced cleaner needed for homes/apartments/offices. Must have a reliable transportaion. Must pass drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868 4-20-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING FOR SALES POSITIONFinancial Services & Mortgage Protection.Wong Financial Services, LLCCall 352-777-6478 for interviewSend Resume mannie.wfs@gmail.com5-10-16-5-14
General ofc assistant. Pleasant home office and atmosphere. 10-15 hrs/week. Schedule flexible. $15 per hour. Required: proficiency in Excel and Word. Also required: serious at-titude and reliability.Resumes to wooten.leslie@gmail.com. 4-19-16-3-14.
Experienced Graphic Designer Needed
We currently have an opening for a full-time 
graphic artist/pre-press production position. We are looking for an individual with a solid knowledge and understanding of graphic de-sign, digital and offset printing and produc -
tion. Applicants should be detail-oriented and organized, and possess multi-tasking abili -
ties in order to meet deadlines. Applicants must possess an expert working knowl -
edge of Photoshop and strong knowledge of Quarkxpress, InDesign, Adobe Acrobat 
and Illustrator. Basic knowledge of web 
design including WordPress templates is a plus. Experience in html, and other web de-
velopment software is helpful. This position 
requires the individual to work in our Ocala, 
Florida office, not remotely. Our office is a 
smoke-free work environment. Please email resume to info@equinechronicle.com or fax 
to 352 369 1521    4-19-16-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: May 2, 2016 at 3:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     4-19-1-20
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
A - $1,000 Daily Returning Phone Calls. No selling, no MLM, No Limits. Not a job. Brief Overview:  877-860-6161       4-19-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.CLEANING SERVICE
Blow off debris & leaves. Clean up Inside & Out- Residence-Commercial 352-221-
5708 4-20-5-15 
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 15 Services 14 Help Wanted 24 Pets12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016Headline
Story description Pg#
Mike Holloway and the 
Florida track and field team will compete in the T om Jones Memorial Invitational on Friday.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Hidalgo, Perez earn SEC awards
Florida men's tennis player Diego Hidalgo was named the Southeastern 
Conference Player of the Week while teammate Alfredo Perez was named the SEC Freshman of the Week, the league announced on Monday.WOMEN'S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
On Monday, Florida women’s 
tennis coach Roland Thornqvist 
had a smile on his face.
The No. 4 Gators had just 
swept two formidable opponents in No. 3 Georgia and Tennessee to capture the Southeastern Con-
ference regular-season title and 
a perfect conference record.
But now, Thornqvist is look-
ing ahead to the SEC tourna-ment, where the Gators, who 
enter as the No. 1 seed, will face 
the winner of LSU and Kentucky.
No matter who they face, 
Thornqvist believes his team 
will be ready.
LSU is the home team, as the 
tournament takes place in Baton Rouge. 
Kentucky was able to defeat 
Florida in doubles. 
Both teams didn’t fare well in 
singles play against the Gators, as LSU only got one singles vic-
tory and Kentucky didn’t get any.
“If you are fortunate enough 
to play in the finals of the SEC tournament," Thornqvist said, “...If you’re not ready physically there, it’s going to affect your play in many more ways than 
just your legs.”
But Florida has a slight edge Gators 
ready for SEC tourney
COACH J.C. DEACON BELIEVES 
HORSFIELD'S SUCCESS IS A 
PRODUCT OF HIS MATURITY. 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
During Round 2 of the Southeastern Con-
ference Championship, Florida golfer Sam 
Horsfield hit his second shot into the par-4 fourth at the Sea Island Golf Club.
When he got to his ball, he couldn’t be-
lieve himself. Plugged under the edge of the bunker sat 
his Titleist Pro V1x, the white exterior barely visible against the surface of the sand.
“You couldn’t even see it. We almost 
didn’t find it,” UF coach J.C. Deacon said of Horsfield’s ball. “Found it buried in the worst lie you could ever see.”
A younger Horsfield would not have 
taken kindly to this misfortune. A younger Horsfield would have most likely cursed his bad luck or slammed his golf bag in frustra-tion.
Instead, the freshman laughed.Deacon said that attitude is the reason for Horsfield’s success.
“We told him after the first tournament 
this year up in Atlanta that we were gonna 
be on him about his attitude. Constantly,” 
Deacon said. “Sam decided that he didn’t want us on him every day about that, and he changed.”
Horsfield, who has won three times this 
year and leads the team in scoring aver-age at 70.3, has not only mastered the golf courses he has played. He has mastered the toughest course of all. 
The one inside his head.From a young golfer who was flustered at the first sign of adversity to a seasoned competitor who has brought many courses to their knees, Horsfield has matured this 
season, and it’s rubbing off on some of his 
teammates.
One of them is Gordon Neale, who dealt 
with injuries for much of the year and strug-gled to qualify for tournaments throughout the season. 
After appearing in his second-straight 
tournament, the freshman has emerged for the No. 8-ranked Gators.
He finished second in the Mason Ru-
Horsfield, men’s golf team maturing ahead of NCAA regionalsBy Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
After a 4-0 road stretch last 
week, the No. 2 Gators are roll-
ing.
Florida took down in-state 
rival Florida State 8-2 on April 12 in Tallahassee and swept the weekend series at Arkansas by a 
combined score of 29-12, while 
never trailing against the Razor-backs.
Now, UF (33-5) returns home 
and will look to continue its win-
ning streak against Jacksonville 
(22-13) tonight at 7 at McKethan Stadium.The Gators will look to slow 
down the Dolphins, who ride into Gainesville having won five of their last six games, including two against North Florida and Lipscomb and one against Florida 
A&M.
This year, Florida is 22-1 over-
all and 15-0 at home versus non-conference opponents. UF coach 
Kevin O’Sullivan is 6-3 against the Dolphins in his career and holds a 5-2 record versus JU at 
home.
The last time these two teams 
squared off was April 5, when 
lefthander Scott Moss earned his 
first career win in a 7-2 victory 
in Gainesville. Freshman Nelson Maldonado powered Florida in the win, crushing a home run and knocking in three runs.
While Moss had success 
against JU, tossing three hitless and scoreless innings, Florida will instead turn to its usual mid-
week starter — freshman Jackson 
Kowar.
Kowar is 3-0 and owns a 3.41 
ERA this year, but he’s been even better as a starter.
In five games started, the 
Charlotte, North Carolina, native has a 1.85 ERA and has struck out 29 batters through 24.1 in-
nings.
Kowar, who’s only seen the 
Dolphins in relief, will have to 
deal with a Jacksonville lineup that features one of the more 
prominent home-run hitters in 
the nation: Austin Hays.
Hays’ 12 homers are tied for 
10th most in the country, and the 
junior leads the team with a .394 
average and 36 RBIs.
In Florida’s 7-2 win over JU in 
April, Hays was the only player to record two hits, going for 2-for-3 
with a double and a run scored.
On the mound, the Gators will 
face junior Casey Kulina for the 
first time. Kulina is 2-0 with a 
2.45 ERA this season.
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgSecond-ranked Florida looking to cool off Jacksonville
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jackson Kowar pitches during Florida's 5-4 win over UNF on March 9 at McKethan Stadium.
SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 14SEE W-TENNIS,  PAGE 14JU has won five of its last six gamesover whoever it faces, having 
beaten every team in the SEC this season. 
It’s an impressive feat consid-
ering the SEC consistently fea-tures some of the best teams in the nation. 
All of the conference's teams 
have the talent to compete for a national title. In addition, Florida has been 
riding a wave of momentum since the start of conference play.
With complete confidence in 
his team, Thornqvist knows he can rely on the seven players he runs in singles and the four dou-bles pairings to get the job done. 
In 13 conference matches, 
only two teams have beaten Florida in doubles play.
 In singles, the Gators own a 52-5 record in the SEC. Three players are riding winning streaks.
 Anna Danilina has won 11 in 
a row, Spencer Liang has won seven straight and Brooke Austin has won six. 
This momentum isn’t unchar-
acteristic for this team. Every 
player — except Danilina — was 
on the team last year, so every-one is familiar with the postsea-son.Florida will rely on its dura-
bility rather than its fastball ap-proach. 
And a lot of that has to do 
with how Thornqvist has transi-tioned his team into a mindset of postseason preparation over the last months. 
“We’re fitter, we’re tougher. 
The physical side of it probably 
the only thing that’s different,” 
Thornqvist said. 
“And if you’re not there phys-
ically, that’s going to affect you mentally. We have a saying, ‘Fa-
tigue makes a coward of us all.’”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Left: Roland Thornqvist looks on during Florida's 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Above: Kourtney Keegan (left) congratulates Brooke Austin (right) during UF's win over USF on Jan. 27. 
Danilina is the only new player on Florida's roster this season
dolph Championship on April 3, Neale fired 
a final-round of 67 — the lowest score of his career — to finish in fourth at the SEC Championship. 
“His attitude is probably the one that I 
look up to the most on the team,” Deacon said of Neale. 
“He never complained about his playing 
time. He just looked in the mirror and want-ed to get better.
“Look where he is now.”According to Deacon, the rest of the team 
can  learn from Horsfield and Neale. 
The ability to remain positive with adver-
sity baring its teeth has helped the freshman duo, and it can help this squad going for-
ward as it prepares for the NCAA Regional 
Championship on May 16.
“That’s going to be the difference,” Dea-
con said of his team's attitude. 
“I think our talent is as good as any-
one’s.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgMEN'S GOLF,  from pg13Deacon wants 
Horsfield, Neale to 
lead by example
W-TENNIS,  from pg13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield hits a shot during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. “W e have a saying, 'Fatigue 
makes a coward of us all.'”
Roland Thornqvist
Florida women's tennis coachTUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
The No. 2 Florida lacrosse 
team has been a thorn in the side 
of most of its opponents this sea-
son.
With a 14-1 record, the Gators’ 
only loss came after dropping a 
14-4 home game to top-ranked 
Maryland a month ago. But six 
of those 14 wins have been over ranked opponents. 
The last time UF gave up dou-
ble-digit goals in a win dates back 
to March 1 against then-No. 2 
Syracuse, when junior midfielder Mollie Stevens scored a game-winning goal in overtime to clinch 
an 11-10 victory for Florida.
But while the defense has been 
stifling, the loss of the now-grad-
uated Shannon Gilroy left coach Amanda O’Leary’s team with-
out the highest-scoring player in 
program history. However, this year’s squad has answered with a varied offensive attack. 
Seven players have scored 10 
or more goals this season, leaving opponents scrambling to figure out which UF player will be the scorer that day.
By the time opponents figure it 
out, it is often too late.Despite the team’s dominance 
in those categories, one aspect of UF’s game that has consistently been its kryptonite is the ability 
to win draw controls.
Draw controls have been a 
point of emphasis all season.
And  while they struggled early 
on, the Gators have been improv-ing in that area lately.
After starting the season win-
ning the draw-control battle in 
just four of the season’s first 
dozen games, UF has come out 
on top in the category for the past three games in a row.
“It’s just the competitiveness,” 
O’Leary said. “It’s a 50-50 ball, and we’ve been more competi-
tive, which is good… It’s just a 
matter of understanding that we have possession of the ball, 
we can score. If we don’t, we’re 
stuck on defense.”
Junior defender Taylor Bresna-
han has twice led the team in the draw circle since the start of con-
ference play, including when she 
tied a career high with six draw controls in Saturday’s 14-4 win against Villanova.
O’Leary said Bresnahan is 
starting to get the hang of all the elements that come with the draw. “She’s done a much, much bet-
ter job of sighting the ball, getting it into her stick and coming out of it with a lot more protection,” she said. “I’m really pleased with how Taylor has responded on the 
draw.”
Bresnahan was never trained 
in the circle like Gilroy, who ac-cumulated 303 career draw con-
trols, but has been successful in the otherwise unsuccessful area for UF.
Her 20 draw controls this sea-
son, which ties her career high from last year, are tied for second most on the team with Caroline 
Fitzgerald. Redshirt senior mid-
fielder Nicole Graziano leads the Gators with 31 gained posses-sions from the circle.
“I give all the credit to (Bres-
nahan),” O’Leary said.
“She’s done a fantastic job for 
us.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgBalanced scoring attack helping UF
SENIOR CLAUDIA 
FRANCIS WILL 
COMPETE IN THE 
400-METER HURDLES.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Florida coach Mike Holloway 
normally approaches each track 
meet the same way.
But for Holloway and the rest of 
Florida’s track and field program, 
their next meet is special.
Nearly three weeks removed 
from a record-breaking perfor-
mance at the Pepsi Florida Relays, the Gators will be competing in the Tom Jones Memorial Invitational on Friday, their last home meet of the season.
The Tom Jones Invitational 
was created in honor of former Florida women’s head coach Tom Jones, who spent 15 years with the Gators and was named NCAA Coach of the Year three times dur-ing his 35-year career. 
He died after a battle with can-
cer on March 21, 2007.
On Friday, Florida will be run-
ning in his memory.
“We always try to make sure 
that we have quality competitors and quality teams,” Holloway said. “And we want to do well ourselves in honor of him and all that he did for the program, and where he led the women’s program.”
The Gators will attempt to do 
just that, but some UF athletes will open competition in events they have yet to run in during the out-door season.
“I look forward to some great 
performances this weekend,” Hol-loway said.
 “Looking forward to Kyra Jef-
ferson running her first 100-meter of the year...We get to see senior Antwan Wright, and our men’s 4x100 will open for the first time this weekend.”
Wright has been limited since 
injuring himself at the Razorback Invitational on Jan. 30 and was unable to compete at the Florida Relays.
Senior Claudia Francis, though, 
will look to improve her time in the 400-meter hurdles when she runs the event for just the third 
time in her college career. At the 
Pepsi Florida Relays, Francis set an NCAA-leading time of 56.43 seconds in the 400-meter hurdles, winning her race and setting the second-best mark in school his-tory.
At last year’s Tom Jones In-
vitational, the Gators won eight 
event titles and former Gator Tay-
lor Burke set a school record in the high jump.
Florida is looking to repeat that 
same success this weekend.
“Coach Jones was really big on 
head to head competition,” Hol-loway said. “He was really big on watching great teams and great 
athletes get together and have a 
great meet, so we are looking for-ward to that this weekend.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida to honor 
former coach at Invitational on Friday
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike Holloway gives instructions to his team during the 
2016 Pepsi Florida Relays at James G. Pressly Stadium.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
T aylor Bresnahan runs down the field during Florida’s 12-11 win against Michigan on Feb. 13 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Florida is ranked No. 2
“It’s a 50-50 ball, and we’ve 
been more competitive, which 
is good … It’s just a matter of 
understanding that we have 
possession of the ball, we can 
score. If we don’t, we’re stuck 
on defense.”
Amanda O’Leary
UF lacrosse coachTRACK & FIELD16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
In the practice gym and on the 
competition floor, the departing 
senior class of Bridgette Caquat-
to, Bianca Dancose-Giambattis-
to, Morgan Frazier and Bridget 
Sloan led by example. 
They helped deliver Florida’s 
first three NCAA National Cham-
pionships. 
They reserved their place in 
the program’s record books.
“(The senior class) was a 
huge part of the history of Gator 
gymnastics,” coach Jenny Row-
land said. 
“They definitely left a legacy. 
They definitely brought in a lot.”
But in the wake of the Gators’ 
fourth-place finish at the Super Six on Saturday, the time has come for them to pass on the torch.  
With the departure of the 
quartet, coach Rowland’s roster features a lone rising senior in Claire Boyce. 
And following the enroll-
ment of a five-member freshman class, Florida will be composed of 10 underclassmen. 
Can such a young team fill 
the leadership void? And if so, who will step up?For the better part of a year, 
Rowland watched her under-
classmen grow, absorbing the 
lessons imparted by the senior class.
Heading into her second year 
at the helm of the program, Rowland isn’t worried.  
“They really taught the rest 
of this team what it is to be a true Gator,” she said. 
“Within their leadership 
qualities throughout the season in and out of the gym, I’m truly grateful and thankful that they 
were as strong as they were and 
were able to help educate the rest of the team and show them really what (being) a Gator’s all about.” 
For the Gators, the question 
of sustaining success boils down to a two-part formula. 
The first step revolves around 
the incoming freshman class. 
Featuring five new recruits, 
this influx of talent boasts an in-ternational pedigree. 
Three gymnasts — Alyssa 
Baumann, Rachel Gowey and Amelia Hundley — have compet-ed with the U.S. Senior National Team, and a fourth, Maegan 
Chant, claimed a silver medal as a member of Canada’s 2015 Pan American Games team. 
“You’ll see some beautiful, 
graceful gymnastics,” Rowland 
said. 
“I can already see a lot of 
leadership qualities amongst them.” 
The second step involves just 
that — leadership qualities.
Before graduating, the senior 
class helped establish a culture of accountability. 
Each practice session pre-
sented a new chance to improve not only their individual gym-nastics, but also team chemistry as a whole. 
The onus of continuing that 
legacy now falls on the 10 ath-letes slated to return. 
And when the Gators recon-
vene next fall, they’ll be pre-
pared. 
“It’s always hard to see four 
strong, young ladies leave,” 
Rowland said, “but like I said, I’m really excited that they 
taught the rest of the team. 
“They didn’t just utilize it 
and leave. They mentored, they 
helped develop along with the 
staff. With that support, I’m re-
ally not worried about any lack 
of leadership.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgGymnastics tasked with replacing seniors
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridgette Caquatto performs her floor routine during the NCAA 
Gymnastics Championships on Saturday in Fort Worth, T exas. 
GATORS IN MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Six former Gators were featured on 
Opening Day rosters with another five on 
40-man rosters, giving Florida a confer-
ence-best 11 major leaguers.
Now that we’re two weeks into the 2016 
season, let’s take a look at how a few of 
them are doing:
Mike Zunino, Tacoma RainiersWhile the Colorado Rockies’ Trevor 
Story was the talk of the town during the first week of the season after hitting seven 
home runs in his first six games, Zunino 
has been on a similar tear in the minor leagues.
Playing for Triple-A Tacoma, the Seattle 
Mariners 2012 first-round pick homered twice on Monday, giving him five-straight games with a home run. Zunino, who picked up Pacific Coast League Player of the Week honors, is hitting .447 with six 
homers and 15 RBIs through nine games, 
both of which lead the PCL.
Zunino’s hot start is a welcomed sign 
for Mariners fans. After hitting an abys-
mal .174 through 112 games last year, the 
catcher was demoted to Tacoma in August to figure things outs at the plate.
As long as Zunino keeps tearing the cov-
er off the ball, Seattle will have no choice 
but to call him back up to help the club’s 
offense.Matt den Dekker, Washington Na-
tionals
Nobody’s season began more hectically than den Dekker’s.
The 28-year-old outfielder began the 
season in Triple-A Syracuse, but was called up after one of the Nationals’ outfielders landed on the disabled list.
Den Dekker hopped on a plane from 
New York to Atlanta and arrived in the fifth inning of a 1-1 game against the Braves on 
April 6. In the seventh inning, the pinch-
hitting outfielder hit a go-ahead two-run double that led to a 3-1 win.
But since then, den Dekker’s bat has 
gone cold.
Used mostly as a late-game defensive 
substitution or pinch hitter, den Dekker is 0-for-7 since his game-winning hit, leaving him just 1-for-8 on the season.
Preston Tucker, Houston AstrosThe Houston Astros need to give Pres-
ton Tucker more at-bats.
In his team’s first week, the 25-year-old 
outfielder recorded a hit in each of his first five games. In those five games, Tucker hit .385 with two home runs and three RBIs.
But when teammate Evan Gattis re-
turned from the disabled list last week, Tucker’s playing time was cut in half. As a result, his production dipped, too.
Over his last five games, Tucker has to-
taled just two hits in 13 at-bats, dropping 
his season average to .269. Meanwhile, 
Gattis is just 1-for-11 in three starts.
Tucker, who hit .243 with 13 homers last 
year for the Astros as a rookie, might just 
need an everyday role to find his rhythm. 
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgZunino tearing up Triple A, Tucker producing for AstrosUF will lose four gymnasts  
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Washington Nationals pinch hitter Matt den Dekker follows through on a two-run 
double in the seventh inning of a game against the Atlanta Braves on April 6 in Atlanta.
