HUNDREDS ATTENDED 
RALLIES THIS WEEKEND.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
As protests rage across the coun-
try following Donald Trump’s elec-
tion, his opponents in Gainesville are organizing acts of resistance this week — and hoping to inﬂ  uence lo-
cal politicians to ﬁ  ght the president-
elect’s future policies.
On Sunday, about 250 anti-
Trump protesters crammed inside the Music Art Movement and Action Club downtown to voice concerns about Trump’s impending presi-dency, the second formal gathering by the group following an emotional 
rally outside Gainesville City Hall on 
Thursday.
As organizers spoke through 
black megaphones, discussing plans to protest Trump throughout the city Thursday, many stood in the club’s courtyard straining to hear.
Diana Moreno, the program co-
ordinator for UF’s Hispanic-Latino Affairs, helped organize the meet-ing. An immigrant from Ecuador, she wore a “Not My President” but-ton as she implored the crowd to resist Trump’s plan to deport mil-
lions of undocumented immigrants 
by making Gainesville a “sanctuary city,” where it would adopt policies against prosecuting undocumented immigrants.
She said those gathered needed to 
take direct action to protest Trump, who she said has marginalized mi-nority groups.
“We are here united against rac-
ism, against misogyny,” she said.
Protests are planned for 4 p.m. 
Thursday at the intersections of Southwest 34th Street and South-west Archer Road, and Southwest 13th Street and West University Ave-nue, among other locations. A march is also planned for Saturday at 4 p.m. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 59 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
UF basketball defeats Mercer
Mike White and the Gators earned their second 
win of the season, pg. 13
Local veterans reﬂ  ect on war through play
The free play shares their stories, pg. 4
UF Asian Americans reﬂ  ect on election
The community discussed plans for the future during an address Thursday, pg. 4Students break down wall as a sign
of post-election unity
The wall had insults and stereotypes painted
on it, pg. 3
Students break down wall as a sign
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Austin Appleby walked to the lectern 
with the conﬁ  dence one would expect 
from a backup quarterback who’d just 
led his team to a Southeastern Conference 
win. 
One week removed from a devastating 
21-point loss to Arkansas, he spoke clearly 
and conﬁ  dently about his team’s 20-7 vic-
tory over South Carolina. 
“I’m proud of the way that we played,” 
he said. “We left a lot out there.”
The No. 21 Gators’ 13-point win over 
the Gamecocks did more than earn Jim McElwain a win over his predecessor, Will Muschamp, who lost on Saturday to many of the players he once recruited.
It silenced the critics for at least a week. But even though Florida’s offense 
looked revitalized under Appleby, it faces its biggest test of the season next: a bout with No. 16 LSU in Death Valley with a second-straight Southeastern Conference East title on the line. 
“We know what’s at stake,” Appleby 
said. “We want to go back to Atlanta, and this is the next step in order to get there.”
But to take that next step, the Gators 
know they still have areas to improve upon.
UF’s three turnovers, including Mark 
Thompson’s early fumble and Appleby’s second-quarter fumble near the goal line, might be too much to overcome against 
any SEC West team, let alone a stout Ti-
gers defense. 
“As long as we don’t hurt ourselves 
and we take care of the football, we could 
put points on the board as much as we 
want to,” receiver Ahmad Fulwood said. 
But there were also plenty of positives 
Florida will need to continue into Baton Rouge. 
UF will likely keep the shackles off run-
ning back Jordan Scarlett, who received CHALLENGING ROAD AHEAD FLORIDA 20
 SOUTH CAROLINA  7
UF faces LSU in Death Valley next
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
HAPPIL Y EVER AFTER
Gary Gensch proposes to his girlfriend, Joanna Schnippert, during the UF 
football game against the University of South Carolina on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Gensch is a Navy veteran of 12 years who served in Iraq in both 1995 and 1996.
Locals join nationwide 
protests against Trump
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A woman holds a homemade cardboard sign while marching with thousands of other people on 
East Randolph Street in Chicago on Saturday morning. Those in attendance protested President-elect Donald Trump. SEE 
RALLIES,  PAGE 9Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Global Engagement Gator 
Style: My Fabulous 
Fulbright and Strategies 
for Successful Intercultural 
CommunicationTuesday from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Music Building, 
Room 101, come to the last 
Fulbright event of this year in celebration of International Education Week. For his six-month Fulbright Core Faculty 
Award, Ed Kellerman, a 
master lecturer in the Dial Center for Written and Oral Communication, taught inter-
cultural communication and 
collected data at the Universiti Tenaga Nasional in Malaysia. This multimedia presentation will feature short, humorous 
videos and stunning photogra-
phy, which will illustrate strat-egies to overcome intercultural barriers that involve appreciat-
ing cultural symbols and being 
involved with local families as well as using the Malay lan-guage effectively. To register, please visit goo.gl/h9gtyl. For 
more information email mcar-
dec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Unity at UF Law
The UF Levin College of Law 
will unite at noon Tuesday, in the law school courtyard, to celebrate the LGBTQ+ commu-nity and honor two of its mem-bers for their humanitarian ef-forts in the legal profession. The law school invites all members of UF and surrounding commu-nities to gather in the Marcia 
Whitney Schott Courtyard on 
UF Law’s campus for a special 
recognition ceremony, which will also include a tribute to the 49 victims of Orlando’s Pulse 
nightclub shooting in June. The 
event is free and open to the 
public. Guests are encouraged to arrive early to enjoy light re-freshments and to gather for the 
event.
Florida Underground: 
Musicians Showcase / RUB 
Entertainment
Join the Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment on Thursday to experience an array of performances by some of 
Gainesville’s best up-and-com-
ing artists. With musical acts ranging from electronic to a capella to pop rock, the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom will transform into the one-stop 
venue for all genres of prom-
ising local artists. Acts include a DJ set by Gainesville’s Low Poly, Brooke & Brian from UF’s Singer Songwriter Society, 
Andy King from UF’s Singer 
Songwriter Society and UF’s The Sedoctaves. Doors open at 7 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom.
Big Heart Gators and Katie 
Caples Foundation work to save livesThe Katie Caples Foundation is 
partnering with UF’s Big Heart 
Gators for an organ, tissue and eye donor registration drive through Friday on campus. 
Big Heart Gators and KCF are 
working closely with Donate Life Florida representatives, who will be providing practical training and education to Big 
Heart Gators. In addition to 
registering new organ donors, the student volunteers will answer questions about organ 
donation with the intention of 
informing, educating and dis-pelling the myths associated with donation and transplan-tation. One organ donor can 
save eight lives through solid 
organ transplant and enhance the lives of up to fifty more through soft tissue donation. 
With a campus population of 
more than 90,000, Big Heart Gators is hoping to register 500 new organ donors. For more information, find Big Heart 
Gators on Facebook at face-
book.com/BigHeartGators or the Katie Caples Foundation at katiecaples.org. To learn more 
about organ donation and to 
register online, please visit do-natelifeflorida.org.
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood Drive hosted by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held until Friday. All blood 
donors will earn points for 
their chapter and spirit points toward Dance Marathon 2017. Donors will also receive a free T-shirt and will help save a 
life. Bloodmobiles will be lo-
cated at the Gainesville Donor Center, Newberry Road Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington 
Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority 
Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lgbialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
Survivors of Suicide 
Candlelight VigilThe 4th Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Saturday at the 
Survivors of Suicide Memory 
Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 
p.m. with a ceremony begin-
ning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the com-munity, and refreshments will be provided. The vigil will 
be sponsored by the Friends 
of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, 
please contact Donna Eckel at 
raggedyds@aol.com.
The Magic of Eugene Mullins: 
Crazy Escapes Rescheduled
Originally scheduled for 
Monday and Tuesday, this event has been rescheduled for mid-April. At the Hippodrome 
State Theatre, Eugene Mullins 
will follow in the footsteps of his childhood hero, Harry Houdini. Mullins is one of the top escape artists in the coun-
try. He has captivated audienc-
es with mind-blowing escapes and breath-taking magic. No lock can hold, no handcuffs 
can keep, no audience can re-
sist Mullins as he leaves you breathless with his death-defy-ing escapes and mind-blowing magic.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  72° LOW  46°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 59
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
THE BLOCKS HAD INSULTS 
AND STEREOTYPES PAINTED 
ON THEM.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
On Thursday, the UF Hispanic Student As-
sociation and Hispanic-Latino Affairs broke 
down a wall. 
The organizations created the wall, made 
of cinder blocks, for a unity demonstration be-hind the Hub. Throughout the day, students 
wrote words and phrases they considered 
harsh or cruel, with the intent to tear them 
down. The demonstration was in response to the presidential election results, said Edward Zambrano, the HSA treasurer. “Usually something like this would take 
longer to plan, but this seemed pressing,” he said. 
Zambrano, 20, said he knew it was some-
thing that could help students cope with the 
results. 
“Students don’t think one candidate over 
the other is the answer,” the UF political sci-
ence junior said. “It’s going to take a lot of 
uniﬁ  cation and love to bring us together.”
Block by block, people painted words on 
the wall. “Rapists,” someone wrote. “Bigot-
ry.” “Hypocrisy.” “Fear.”
Zambrano, who wrote “anchor baby,” 
said as a ﬁ  rst-generation college student with 
parents who immigrated from Ecuador, it’s a 
phrase he’s become familiar with.  
The phrase carries a negative connotation 
by labeling children who were born in the U.S. to noncitizens. But he is not a burden to the country, he said. He is an asset. 
The words and phrases on the blocks rep-
resented students’ daily struggles, he said, but tearing down the wall symbolized what they 
can achieve together. 
“The wall was a message that we don’t 
want to build walls,” Zambrano said. “We 
want to break them down and bring people 
together.”
Mariana Castro, the president of UF Chis-
pas, said members of the organization have 
been victims of racial intolerance following 
the election. 
“It has damaged some of us to such an 
emotional point that some of us could not go 
to class yesterday,” the 22-year-old UF neu-
robiology and Latin American studies junior 
said. It was OK to feel sad or hurt, she told the 
crowd. People who cannot sympathize for 
those who are afraid are privileged, she said. 
“It’s OK to feel fear, because at the end of 
the day, that’s what has won,” she said.
Before the wall was knocked down, Jose 
Abastida, 25, told the crowd that as an un-documented student, he has seen injustice 
and inequality in the U.S. 
Despite Islamophobia and racism existing 
in American society, the UF political science 
senior said students should not be afraid to 
be on campus. They need to stand together. 
“I’m more pumped than ever to help 
ﬁ  ght the ﬁ  ght,” he said. “In unity, there is 
strength.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org Students break down wall  as sign of post-election unity
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
David Rodriguez, 20, a UF public relations and international studies sophomore, 
paints the word “minority” on a cinder block behind the Hub on Thursday afternoon.
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
The UF Hispanic Student Association and Hispanic-Latino Affairs break down a wall made of cinder blocks for a unity demonstration behind the Hub on Thursday afternoon. Throughout the day, the organizations invited students to write words and phrases they found harsh and cruel, with the intent to tear them down. The demonstration was in response to the presidential election results, said Edward Zambrano, the HSA treasurer.
THEY DISCUSSED THE 
IMPACT ON  
UF’S COMMUNITY. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The results of the presidential 
election struck a sense of togeth-
erness in UF’s diverse Asian com-munity.
On Thursday, Asian Pacific Is-
lander American Affairs hosted an Inaugural State of the Union Ad-dress in the Reitz Union. The event was inspired after Donald Trump was named the next U.S. president and members of the department saw a rise in hate crimes at UF, in-cluding an incident in which Gator 
Adaa, a nationally competitive UF 
Bollywood dance group, was con-fronted with racial slurs.
At the event, panelists from 
various Asian American student groups on campus discussed add-ing desi, which means “home,” to 
APIA’s name to help students with 
ethnic origins from countries such as India and Bangladesh feel more included in the organization. 
Krystie Nguyen, the director of 
APIA affairs, said the about 50 stu-dents in attendance were family.
“We must continue to build 
more bridges and have more dis-
courses of our struggles,” she said.  
Shaina Panchal, a Gator Adaa 
member, reflected on the incident 
when the group was confronted during one of their practices by men who compared them to an “invasive species.” 
Up until the incident occurred, 
she said she felt respected for her 
cultural background at UF.
“Having someone call me an in-
vasive species here at UF definitely made me feel like an outsider again,” the 21-year-old UF health 
science senior said. 
Nashrah Ahmed, the social jus-
tice and advocacy chair for APIA, said the team’s experience wasn’t isolated, adding that she’s seen a rise in hate crimes following the election results.
Islam on Campus received a 
message on Facebook about some-one who tried to run over a stu-dent who was wearing an Islam on Campus backpack, she said. 
“Hate crimes aren’t just rising 
around our country, but right here at home,” the 21-year-old UF po-litical science senior said. “When home rejects you like that, it’s re-
ally hard to move on.” 
Praveen Varanasi, the president 
of UF’s Indian Students Associa-
tion, said he cried after he learned about the election results. 
But the 21-year-old UF econom-
ics, political science and sustain-ability studies senior said not to lose hope in the American people. 
“At the end of the day, we have 
to identify the fact that we are all Americans,” he  said. “We all have a right to be here.” 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
PATRIOTIC PUPS 
Susan Tipton dressed up her rescue dogs for the Veterans Day event at Kanapaha Veterans Memorial 
Park on Friday. Tipton said she dresses them every Veterans Day.
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
 A DAY TO REMEMBER
Attendees look at the renovated war memorial at the Veterans Day event at Kanapaha Veterans Memorial Park on Friday.
By Martin Vassolo              
and Paige Fry 
Alligator Staff Writers
Victor Lopez’s time in Afghani-
stan still follows him to class.
Andrew Moore remembers the 
face of a burning child.
Scott Camil became a target af-
ter coming home.
Separated by age and deploy-
ment times, the three share a bond, having stared death in the face and seen comrades killed.
“The pain is still there,” Camil 
said.
•   •   •
On Thursday night, they shared 
their once-repressed stories, acting 
out the heartbreak of war and the 
struggle of returning to civilian life 
as a part of “Telling: Gainesville,” 
with shows from Thursday until 
Saturday.
Inside the Actors’ Warehouse 
on North Main Street, the strum of a guitar guided an audience 
through their stories, woven into 
an overlapping narrative of the 
military experience.
Jeffrey Pufahl, the director of 
outreach theatre for the UF Cen-ter of Arts in Medicine, directed 
and produced the play, wanting to bridge the gap between service members and civilians.
“It’s time to speak and time to 
listen,” he said.
•   •   •
After four years in the U.S. 
Army, time he spent avoiding bul-lets, Victor Lopez said he feels like an outsider walking through UF.During his time in Afghanistan, 
his unit was often under mortar and machine-gun fire. He once narrowly avoided being hit by a rocket-propelled grenade, he said.
In class, his professors often 
announce his service, at which point he is asked the usual ques-tions.
“How was it?” they wonder.When the veteran, 28, shares 
memories of his time overseas, other students avoid him or change seats in class.
“There hasn’t been one semes-
ter where that hasn’t happened,” the UF sociology senior said.
•   •   •
After seven years in the army, 
one memory continues to haunt Andrew Moore, 39.
Driving in a car, a civilian fam-
ily — mother, father and children 
— wound up caught between 
Moore’s unit and an enemy ve-hicle. After a U.S. tank shot at the enemy vehicle, the vehicle 
crashed into the family.
The family’s car burst into 
flames.
The Williston resident remem-
bers the father “wiggling like a worm,” and a boy’s fingers falling 
off his hand.
To this day, he doesn’t know if 
they survived.
“What happened to that fam-
ily?” he wonders. “Did they live?”
•   •   •
In Vietnam, success was mea-
sured by body count.
In one of many “free-fire 
zones,” which were assumed to be evacuated areas, Scott Camil and 
his fellow U.S. Marines once killed 292 Vietnamese, including women 
and children, he said.
A Jewish man, he was remind-
ed of Holocaust stories and how 
Nazis shed innocent blood.
After 20 months in Vietnam, the 
70-year-old UF graduate felt like 
them. That feeling — combined 
with a belief that the government 
lied about the war — served as a 
catalyst for his life as an anti-war 
activist in Gainesville.
Years removed from the war, 
Camil was soon targeted by the 
country he had once unflinchingly 
served, nearly being killed by fed-
eral agents in Gainesville.
A participant in a war many 
Americans have since disavowed, 
and one of the few veterans who 
adamantly continues to criticize it, 
Camil said he feels like an outcast 
among other Vietnam veterans.
“It’s hard,” he said, “but the 
bottom line for me is that I got to be able to look into the mirror and 
respect the man I see.”
During the play, Janet Davies, 
57, wept in the audience, harbor-
ing a newfound sense of empathy 
and insight into military life.
“They were vulnerable,” she 
said. “It makes me feel vulner-
able.”
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org
@paigexfry 
pfry@alligator.og‘Time to listen’: Local veterans 
reflect on war through play
UF Asian Americans 
reflect on U.S. election 
THINGS THAT WERE 
DISCUSSED:  
• The U.S. presidential 
election results 
• Host a forum to add “desi” to the APIA name
• Rise in hate crimes at UF 
• Resources available to the Asian American community at UF
• Host more community events in the futureMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police is asking residents to 
call with information after reports circulated 
on social media of a woman luring others to 
be sexually assaulted.
At 6:30 p.m. Tuesday, Kristen Oliff, who 
declined to comment for this article, wrote on Facebook about a woman who ap-proached people claiming to be a single mom who needed a ride back to her house. The woman, Oliff continued, then leads good sa-maritans to a house where multiple men al-
legedly rape them.
Although GPD has not received any credi-
ble reports about the alleged incidents, many 
commented on Oliff’s post saying they have seen the woman before. Oliff described the suspect as a slim African-American woman with a chipped front tooth.
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said 
police know who the woman is, and she has a history of panhandling, but the department has not received any credible reports to cor-roborate Oliff’s post.
“The problem is people are posting it on 
social media instead of calling us,” Tobias said.
Josh Brown, a UF mechanical engineer-
ing alumnus, said he gave the woman a ride two years ago after he and his roommate met her at the Publix located at 1302 N. Main St. The woman told him she needed a ride to the hospital to see her daughter, who she said 
had sickle cell anemia.
“I think at the end I just brushed it off,” 
the 22-year-old said.
Last week, his roommate sent him Oliff’s 
Facebook status, hoping to verify it was the 
same woman they encountered. 
“(It’s) kind of surprising that no one drew 
(this) connection until this time,” Brown said. 
Anyone with information can call GPD’s 
non-emergency line at 352-955-1818.GPD seeking information after 
viral social media reports of rape By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jess Hardy and Katherine Triplett met 
while working at a primate sanctuary. 
Now good friends, Hardy, 26, and 
Triplett, 25, spent Sunday afternoon walk-
ing around and looking at the tables lining 
the lawn at First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany. Each table advocated a different local environmental organization as part of the inaugural Fall Festival for the Environment. 
“We are constantly having to educate 
people about the pet trade,” Hardy said.
The two women were part of about 100 
people who came to the festival, where attendees made $5 and $10 donations to drink, eat and raise money to rid invasive plants from parts of Gainesville. The event 
was hosted by the Gainesville Arts and 
Parks Foundation.
Kentucky Costellow, who organized the 
festival, said the proceeds will beneﬁ  t the Great Invader Raider Rally, which will be held Jan. 28. During the rally, volunteers will help remove thousands of pounds of non-native plants from the city.
“My main intention is to instill responsi-
bility in people,” she said.
To prepare for the rally, Sunday’s event 
raised awareness about the presence of in-vasive species that “causes a kink” in the ecosystem, she said. Alachua County For-ever, Gainesville Greenway Challenge and Florida Invasive Species Partnership were some of the organizations that attended.
Rose Godfrey, a UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences extension outreach co-ordinator, stood in front of the FISP table, which was lined with the skin of a Burmese python.
The python is one of many species that 
do not belong in Florida, the 36-year-old said. One of the partnership’s main goals is to reduce the number of introduced spe-cies so native species don’t suffer the con-
sequences. 
“We could hopefully restore the balance 
so that children will have biodiversity,” she 
said.  First Magnitude brewery holds 
environmental awareness fairTHE STUDENT RECEIVED $500 
FROM THE FUCHSES.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF graphic design junior Andrea Gomez picked 
up a $500 check made out to her from the UF presi-
dent and his wife. 
“It’s really exciting, because that’s a lot of mon-
ey,” the 20-year-old said. “I kind of want to use 
that money to pay it forward and buy gifts for my 
family and friends.”
President Kent Fuchs and his wife, Linda, chose 
Gomez’s design for their Holiday Greeting Card Contest, which will be released to UF alumni for the holiday season. They received 87 entries and chose two runner-ups, who each received a $250 prize. 
In her design, Gomez said she wanted to repre-
sent UF’s landmarks, such as Century Tower and Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, while also making it in-clusive to different holidays and cultures. The ﬁ  nal design won’t be shown until the card’s mailing.She started her design two days before the 
deadline, she said, after a professor told her about the contest. Gomez opened up Adobe Illustrator, played Michael Bublé’s holiday music and worked on the card for 10 hours straight. 
“I channeled all that energy from Michael Bublé 
and put it in the card,” Gomez said.
The selection process started with a committee 
of six people from UF faculty and administration narrowing down about 10 different cards for the Fuchses to choose from.
Kent Fuchs said it took him and his wife about 
two hours to pick the winners because they had different tastes. They compromised on the two runners-up but agreed Gomez’s was the winner. 
“I love it,” he said. “It was the one that I thought 
was most appropriate for alumni, because it has 
the symbols that the alumni will recognize at the 
university.” 
Gomez said she was happy someone from the 
UF graphic design department won, because it brings recognition to those students. 
“We’re like a family,” she said. “So seeing one 
of us win makes everyone else really excited.” Student celebrates after winning UF president’s  holiday contest
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Florida Bridgewater-Alford, the chair of the Holiday Greeting Card Contest ad-
visory committee, organizes the dozens of artwork entries submitted by UF stu-dents for President Kent Fuchs and his wife’s greeting card contest.
CRIMEThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThe implications of 
President-elect Trump
With the election slowly fading back into our national 
collective memory, we feel it necessary to spur a dis-cussion about our democracy. We wish to remind our readers that democracy is more complex than formal electoral processes. It is a complex and informal grid 
of unwritten, collective ideologies smashing together, breaking apart and reforming anew. When Donald Trump won, it really symbolized a total breakdown of a political machine — similar to the Brexit vote. We now have the opportunity to rebuild it. We can rebuild it as a total fascist movement or we can rebuild it with a fresh start.
To those of you who point ﬁ  ngers at the evil white men who 
voted for Trump (not all of them voted for Trump, by the way. Some were incredibly vocal in their support for Hillary Clinton), 
know that you probably agree with them in the most fundamen-
tal reasoning in terms of motivation for voting: unhappiness with the traditional political machine. For better or worse, this nation acknowledged that the machinery formerly used to harness pop-ular political opinion has broken down. For this, we should be ironically grateful.
Trump single-handedly demolished the Republican Party. The 
party was previously comprised of two general blocs: Christian fundamentalists and socially unconcerned, yet ﬁ  scally commit-
ted, conservative business elite. Both of which, mind you, ab-
horred Trump. Perhaps it was because of his coarseness. But in this coarseness, he exposed something basic and “human” about him. Once again, Trump is a repulsive human being, but compared to former GOP presidential candidates like Ted Cruz and Rick Santorum, he’s at least “human.” There is something so monstrous about Cruz and Santorum; perhaps it is their de-sire and ability to impose Christian Sharia law, their blatant mis-understanding of fundamental economic principles and other 
things. As vile as Trump is, he’s redeemed us from truer perils 
like Christian fundamentalists. Unless he dies and leaves Pence in charge.
On the other side of the aisle, the Democratic Party mostly 
uniﬁ  ed behind “Not Trump.” This fundamentally stupid logic cost us Sen. Bernie Sanders, who could’ve harnessed the anti-es-tablishment momentum while also having sensible policy. In his place, Democrats put their trust in establishment candidate Clin-ton. Sure, she’s progressive like Sanders on topics like LGBTQ+ 
and civil rights, but she’s also the establishment vote. Hopefully, 
the “it’s her time” logic will meet its end, and the Democratic Party will evolve as well, ridding themselves of traditional logic and embracing the people’s true choices.
There are further consequences that extend beyond the po-
litical sphere, though. With the destruction of the political ma-chine, there’s an opportunity for us to rebuild it with rhetoric that doesn’t disenfranchise people. Trump’s success shows a rejection of the infamous political correctness movement. Unfortunately, 
he has ofﬁ  cially normalized blatant racism and open misogyny. 
Remember two years ago how words like “waterboarding” 
and “torture” were changed to phrases like “enhanced interroga-
tion”? This was an institutional interpretation of political correct-ness. It’s the same logic that could justify us renaming horriﬁ  c acts like stealing and looting to “enhanced property reassign-ment.” This idea that we should use language that doesn’t harm people works in cases in which we discuss those who are mar-ginalized in some way in terms of race or gender identiﬁ  cation, 
but it unequivocally fails when we make it universal across the 
board of discussion. In politics, we have known enemies, and not everyone deserves respect. Our method of discussion should reﬂ  ect this, and Trump exposed this fundamental ﬂ  aw in our po-litical machinery.
Art is an important part of students’ education
There is a topic I could have chosen to 
write about this week. I don’t know about you, but I’ve read and heard 
more than enough opinions on the out-
come of the presidential election, and 
I’m not convinced I have anything particular-ly original to bring to the table. I encourage 
you to form an opinion and be involved in 
this topic of discussion. Talk it over with your friends or those who are not your friends. Our most dangerous enemy is apathy.
Today, I’d like to talk about an item on our 
local Alachua County ballot. It was Question One and was a referendum regarding the renewal of the exist-ing one mill ad valorem tax for school district operating expenses. This tax ends up taking $1 for every $1,000 
of the taxable value of a property. It passed with more 
than 77 percent of voter support.
On the ballot, it was explained as being used for 
necessary operating expenses to fund school nurses, elementary music and art programs, K-12 school li-
brary and guidance programs, middle and high-school 
band and chorus programs, academic/career technical magnet programs and to update classroom technology. Anyone who has attended elementary school can attest 
to the importance of these aspects of education. It can 
become all too easy to forget that these programs are often not very well-funded. We argue constantly about the merits and shortcomings of standardized testing and Common Core, but we forget this may not even be the 
most important aspect of primary and secondary educa-
tion.
Throughout my elementary-, middle- and high-school 
education, I certainly learned a lot. I learned about sci-
ence, math, English and social studies. I learned how 
to graph a polynomial function and why the Civil War happened. But this isn’t what I think about when I think about my early education. I think about my education in the arts.
Starting in kindergarten, my favorite ac-
tivities were singing, playing music or talking about music. (I am by no means saying I was even remotely OK at singing, but I liked it. Still do. Sorry to my roommates and anyone 
who has ever attended a concert or rode in 
a car with me.) As you can expect, I loved music class in elementary school. I loved it so much I was one of those kids who kept with it in middle school. I was then one of 
the kids who continued through high school. Now I’m in college, and I still play. It is an integral part of who I am, and I can safely say if I hadn’t had such a good experience with it in school, this would not be 
the case.
Music and art teaches kids more than just a skill. The 
classes are more than just a way to give their teachers a 
break for an hour. They teach kids that while academ-ics are important, they are not the only thing that mat-
ters. They teach kids from a very young age the impor-
tance of being well-rounded, of ﬁ  nding a creative outlet and of ﬁ  nding their passions. If these programs are not funded, many children will never have the opportunity 
to do any of these things. Talents will go undiscovered 
and passions will not be found. Without these refer-endums, these programs may cease to exist, and the world will become a darker place. For those who voted yes, thank you. You may not even realize the impact 
you have, but as one of those students who has been 
impacted, I thank you. For those who voted no, please vote the other way in 2020 when this is up for renewal. I know it’s more money you have to spend, but what 
you are buying is priceless.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and journalism 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
I never had a dream wedding built-up in 
my mind. I didn’t plan the flavor of the frosting on my cake, even though I dreamt about eating everyone else’s food.
Maybe it’s because the ability to get 
married is such a new right for me. Gay marriage has been legal for less time than it takes me to do my laundry. But under Don-ald Trump’s presidency, who knows if I’ll still have this chance?
If your response to this is saying he can’t 
actually end same-sex marriages, you are missing the point. You aren’t noticing how terrifying it is that there are people afraid of 
losing their most basic rights.
Even bigger, you’re not seeing how these 
two candidates were the same. Both candi-
dates didn’t care about me — that much is obvious. With Hillary Clinton, I could have pretended, and that is a privilege in itself.
I went to class numb the day after the elec-
tion. It’s not because of who won this elec-tion, but how this election broke my illusion that the world had changed.
Now I can say white people gen-
eralize and are racist, because look 
at the statistics. The majority of 
y’all voted for this racist, misogy-nistic, xenophobic Cheeto. So.
What really gets me is that peo-
ple said they didn’t support Trump, but they voted for him. Wasn’t the message from the Holocaust that si-lence is also oppression? You may not hate me for being gay, but you don’t care 
about protecting me, either. You may not hate 
me for being black, but you don’t care about my life, either. Christian voters wanted to pre-serve their views so badly they didn’t mind letting everyone else suffer. And that’s what hurts.
Do you even know what conversion camps 
do? Did you research anything? Is white su-premacy so fragile that you will shoot yourself in the foot to make sure I’m still worse off than you?
I wasn’t allowed to dream. I 
know people are looking at this as 
just another election; they’re wait-
ing for us to accept the results and get over it, but I can’t go through this quietly. I can’t just accept the fact that I may not be able to marry the person I love. I may not be able to do what I want with my body. I may never be safe here, because I 
wasn’t born a cisgender white man.
But then again, this election didn’t tell me 
anything new. It just made those who hate me for being brown, a woman and a queer take their hoods off.
I was prepared to hate Clinton, because I 
know the past. I wasn’t prepared for the rest of the world to hate her, too. White liberals like to pretend she didn’t do all the damage she did to communities of color, but we don’t have that privilege. It should tell you some-thing about the two-party system if both can-didates fall short.
Now I’ll just have to find it in myself to not 
be scared. I want to ride the bus next to a per-son in a Pence shirt and not worry about gay-conversion camps. I want to sit next to the girl with the “Make America Great Again” hat and not think she’s wondering what race I am and whether I lied about my sexual assault.
What’s terrifying is that I don’t think it’s 
possible. It’s hard to go to sleep when you know half of your country decided you 
weren’t good enough for human rights. It’s 
hard to breathe when they have told you so obviously that you don’t matter. And now y’all want to turn and work with those same people.
Brooke Henderson is a UF international 
studies and journalism sophomore. Her col-umn appears on Mondays.
Dear white people: Here's what your votes taught me about this countryColumn
Brooke  
Henderson
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
An anti-Trump protest organizer voices her suggestion that 
individuals of every color need to come together to help take action. Citizens gathered outside of the former Citizens Co-op building on Sunday afternoon to organize protests around the Gainesville area. 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Diana Moreno, a 29-year-old organizer for the anti-Trump Next Steps meeting, yells updates into a megaphone to a group of about 100 citizens who gathered inside the former Citizens Co-op building on Sunday afternoon to plan upcoming protests. 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Right: Sam Miller, a 
Gainesville resident who is speaking out against the election of Donald Trump, holds a sign that reads “Human rights should not be a privilege” at the former Citizens Co-op building on Sunday afternoon. Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Candi Churchill, an organizer for resistance against Donald Trump’s agenda, writes suggestions of action for a group, which organized preparations for protests around the Gainesville area.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Above: A woman holds a 
sign that reads “YES WE CAN” while marching along with thousands of other protestors on East Randolph Street on Saturday morning in Chicago.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
starting at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
Those gathered Sunday split into three 
groups to organize their plans of resistance, 
going to the main room of MAMA Club, the courtyard in the back and Haisley Lynch Park 
across the street.
James Davidson, a 49-year-old Hawthorne 
resident, was playing in the park with his 
2-year-old son, Henry, when Candi Churchill, 
an organizer, gathered dozens in a circle.
He brought Henry over to the edge of the 
crowd, at one point hoisting him up on his 
shoulders to give his son a better look. David-son said he worries about Henry growing up under a Trump presidency.
“I worry about the future,” he said. “I wor-
ry about the future now more than I used to a 
week ago.”
As they listened, Churchill took suggestions 
for the name of Saturday’s march. The name 
“Freedom From Fear” won, getting the most snaps of approval.
Kneeling on the sidewalk, Kayleigh 
Chalkowski, a 27-year-old Gainesville resident, started making anti-Trump signs for Thurs-day’s protest. She drew Trump with orange 
and yellow markers before crossing his face 
out with one black line.
Chalkowski said she fears Trump undoing 
policies to combat climate change. She cited his appointing Myron Ebell, a climate-change skeptic, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency transition team.
“I just really don’t want to see us take a step 
backward,” Chalkowski said.
After the meeting, Gainesville resident Aly-
son Chadwick walked over to Maude’s Classic Cafe for a cup of coffee. While there, she got up to speak at the Not My President open-mic event. She told a group of about 20 people she worried about women’s rights under Trump, mainly in light of his 2005 comments about his 
fame allowing him to make sexual advances 
on women.
Layne Wrighton, the owner and general 
manager of Maude’s, said she was approached by Gainesville resident Jackson Sabbagh, who stood outside as they and customers shared their fears following the election.
“I thought it was a great idea,” Wrighton 
said. “I think people should be able to come together.”
Faye Williams, the owner of MAMAs Club, 
said she offered up her building after hearing the group needed a place. A community orga-nizer for 43 years, she said it is time for the older generation to step back and listen to new voices.
She walked between her building and the 
park, listening from afar.
“This is the young people’s movement,” 
Williams said. “They got to move it forward.”
RALLIES,  from pg. 1‘This is the young people’s movement’: More protests to be held this weekMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-14-16-12-2
2BR - Small pet ok$525/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
1/1 with W/D IN unit. 5-10 minutes to cam-
pus, on bus route. Corner unit with no one above you. Complex is gated at night and has a pool, gym, sauna, tanning bed, courts, and free printing. PETS ALLOWED! Cable and HBO included. $879/month. Contact Amanda 727-418-4337     11-18-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. $1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-16-5-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatestNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. In 2016, Seattle’s Robinson Cano 
became the fourth major-league play-
er to have at least 50 extra-base hits in 
each of his first 12 seasons. Name two 
of the other three.
2. Name the major-league teams 
managed by Hall of Famer Leo Durocher.
3. Nick Chubb set a record at the 
University of Georgia in 2015 for most consecutive games rushing for 
at least 100 yards (13). Who had held 
the mark?
4. Name the last team before the 
Cleveland Cavaliers in 2015 to sweep the Eastern Conference Finals in the 
NBA playoffs.
5. Who was Pittsburgh Penguins 
star Sidney Crosby’s first NHL head 
coach?
6. When was the last time before 
2016 (Ginny Thrasher) that an Ameri-can medaled at the Olympic 10 meter air rifle event?
7. Name the three golfers who won 
back-to-back Masters Tournaments.
Answers
1. Carlos Lee, Albert Pujols and 
Eddie Mathews.
2. The Brooklyn Dodgers (1939-
46, ‘48), New York Giants (1948-55), Chicago Cubs (1966-72) and Houston Astros (1972-73).
3. Herschel Walker, with 12 games 
of 100-plus rushing yards (1980-81).
4. The New Jersey Nets went 4-0 
versus Detroit in 2003.
5. Ed Olczyk, in the 2005-06 season.6. Nancy Johnson won a gold medal 
in 2000.
7. Jack Nicklaus (1965-66), Nick 
Faldo (1989-90) and Tiger Woods (2001-02).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 14, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18
ACROSS
1 Joined, as a
team of oxen
6 Per person
10 Pockmark, e.g.
14 Bacteria in rare
meat, maybe
15 Hockey score16 Get through
tough times
17 Celebration with
personnel
19 Like certain
inappropriateremarks
20 __ Destiny: 19th-
century U.S.doctrine
21 Television host
22 Cloister
members
23 Title for Elton
John
25 Young fellow
26 Sound from a
flock
29 Hangman man,
e.g.
32 More than
enough
34 Alludes (to)35 Exaggerated
publicity
36 Garish38 Hospital helper
41 Enter sneakily
43 Not exactly44 React in the
slightest way
48 Born, on society
pages
49 Israeli weapon50 Thurman of
“Gattaca”
51 Bygone
automaker
53 Knocks down
completely
55 Says over59 Ticks off60 Hoarse-voiced
“Maggie May”singer
62 Puts on TV63 Norway’s 
capital
64 Sudden power
increase
65 Cut with a beam66 Complaint67 Soup-eating
utensilDOWN
1 Polite rural reply
2 Hexa- plus two
3 Zen paradox
4 Spritelike
5 Scatter widely
6 Court great Andre7 Word with “of
entry” or “of call”
8 Muesli morsel9 Two-__ tissue
10 Problem in a
neglected pool
11 Ending12 Perform (in)13 Draw back, as
one’s hairline
18 Repressed, with
“up”
21 Buffalo’s lake23 Distort, as data24 Questionable26 “Phooey!”27 Comic/writer
Schumer
28 Starters on a
menu
30 Witch31 Snatch33 Woman seduced
by Zeus in the
form of a swan
36 Look to be37 Casual greeting
39 Expected at the
station
40 Nice summer?
42 Bearded beasts
43 221B Baker
Street, e.g.
44 Part of a time
capsule
ceremony
45 Hank who voices
some “Simpsons”
characters46 More than enough
47 “__ it get to me”52 Escorted to the
penthouse, say
54 Latin being
55 Eric of “Monty
Python”
56 Hawaiian root
57 “And thus ... “
58 WWII weapon
60 Steal from
61 Suffix with rib- or
lact-
By Craig Stowe
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/14/1611/14/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 14, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FTCall or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    11-30-16-16-14
Medical Assistant or Pre-Med student want-ed for temporary (Nov/Dec) , full time posi-tion with busy pediatric office. Please send resume to worthingtonpeds@yahoo.com or via fax 352-371-4865      11-16-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Administrative Assistant needed at Millhopper Montessori School. Must be a self-starter & have the ability to work independently on proj-ects to completion, be comfortable working in an array of areas and environments and must be comfortable accepting new tasks at a moment’s notice. 9:00AM–5:00PM / one hour lunch. Requirements: CPR and First Aid Certification / Training or experience in related field, 4-Year Degree preferred, but not required. Contact Amilda Clark 352-375-6773, or mmschool@millhopper.com    11-16-16-5-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, Background 
Investigation Conducted Affirmative Action/ 
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call Misty @ the EDEP office 955-7766
11-18-16-5-14
STRIVE at GatorWell 
Grad student Lead Peer EducatorCampus violence prevention workAll identities welcomejobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 499420       11-18-16-
5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sportsBy Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
With 0.6 seconds left in the first half, 
Florida guard KeVaughn Allen stood 
behind the backboard and lobbed an 
out-of-bounds pass to forward Kevar-
rius Hayes. 
Surrounded by Mercer defenders, 
Hayes leapt, caught and shot before the 
ball rattled into the rim, capping an 18-2 
UF run. 
The Bears jogged back to their locker 
room — saved by the buzzer. 
The Gators' (2-0) first-half ensemble 
of three-point plays and deep jump shots lifted them to a 76-54 win over Mercer (1-1) Sunday night in Jackson-ville. 
Despite a shaky 36-percent shoot-
ing performance for Florida, the buck-ets came in bunches for forward Justin Leon, who hit three threes and notched a career-high 17 points.
“After the first one,” Leon said, “I 
could tell how smooth it (flew out) of my hands that I was like, ‘OK if I get another one, I’m gonna make it again.’”
Three pointers weren’t falling at first 
for the Gators, who were among the SEC’s worst teams from beyond the arc 
last season. As a team, UF only shot 32 
percent from three last year. 
But in the last six minutes of the 
first half, Florida found a rhythm with a makeshift lineup as UF’s point guards 
sat out with foul trouble. Coach Mike 
White used an oversized lineup, giving Florida free reign on rebounding.
It paid off. 
Despite poor shooting, Florida pulled 
away by scoring on second-chance op-
portunities. UF’s frontcourt played keepaway above the rim with a 20-10 advantage in offensive rebounds. At 
one point, UF had 17 rebounds to Mer-
cer’s three. 
“Our ability to fly to the offensive glass, our ability to turn (Mercer) over through press and pressure 17 times,"  White said, "(those) were the biggest keys to the game.”
Florida piled it on in the second half. 
All 12 Gators played and scored with UF’s lead often out of reach. Allen fin-ished with 13 points, and forward Devin Robinson nearly earned a double-dou-
ble with 12 points and nine boards. 
But it wasn’t all positive. White said 
UF's near-20-point lead at halftime ex-
posed a lack of discipline and maturity  
but thought the team did enough to win. 
On the defensive end, Florida suffo-
cated Mercer. The Bears led only once, 
were out-rebounded 47-32, and Florida even hounded a Mercer ball-handler 
into committing a half-court violation.
White has said UF needs to improve 
its performance from the free-throw 
line. Sunday night the Gators outshined 
last season’s average, making 80 per-
cent of their free throws. 
Senior guard Kasey Hill, who said 
during the preseason that he has been labeled “not a shooter” by critics, 
stepped up from the free-throw line. He 
has made 7 of his 10 free throws this season, including 4-of-6 on Sunday, an improvement from his 54-percent aver-
age last season
UF has another neutral site matchup 
against St. Bonaventure on Thursday in 
Lakeland, Florida.
And Leon said Sunday’s win is al-
ready behind him. 
“You just gotta forget about it,” Leon 
said. “Focus on the next games because all the teams are different. You can’t 
just be like ‘Oh, we played good.’” 
“We’ll kind of start over and prepare 
again." 
A radio broadcast contributed to re-
port.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org
UF women's basketball to face T ennessee Chattanooga
No. 20 Florida (1-0) faces T ennessee Chattanooga tonight in the second 
game of a season-opening 12-match road trip. Tip off is at 6:30 p.m. Read a preview of the game online at alligator.org/sports.In his last game in The Swamp, 
wide receiver Ahmad Fulwood had a big day for the UF football team.Read the story on pg. 15.UF basketball breezes past Mercer for second win
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Justin Leon attempts a dunk during Florida's win against Auburn in the O'Connell Center last season. Leon led Florida with 17 points in UF's win over Mercer on Sunday.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Before Sunday afternoon’s match 
with Alabama, the Florida volley-ball team celebrated one of the most prominent players in program his-tory. 
With her family, teammates and 
coach at center court, senior hitter Alex Holston made her way through the tunnel to join them, commemo-rating her four years of play as a member of the Gators.“I actually didn’t think I was gon-
na be that emotional walking out,” Holston said. “But I was actually 
about to cry.”
If she was emotional, her play 
didn’t show it.
On the very first play of the match, 
UF setter Allie Monserez flicked the 
ball high toward the right side of the 
court. Holston leapt into the air and delivered a hammer-like blow on the 
back of the ball, sending it rocketing toward the opponent’s floor for the 
first kill of the match.
And that was just the beginning.
The No. 6 Gators (24-2, 14-1 
Southeastern Conference) swept the 
Crimson Tide (17-11, 6-9 SEC) for Florida’s 12th-straight victory. The Holston leads Florida volleyball to Senior Day sweep
Holston
It was UF 's  12th-straight win
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 16             FLORIDA 76, MERCER 5414   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Through the stadium tunnel, past a pair 
of double doors and nestled in a corner of 
the weight room, Ahmad Fulwood sat with a confident smile following the best collegiate game of his life.
He knew the questions were coming, the 
ones about his underwhelming Florida ca-
reer, about a once four-star recruit reduced 
to benchwarmer and run-blocker for most of his four years.
So when a slightly different question was asked, Fulwood took a few seconds to re-
spond. 
How do you handle the criticism the of-
fense has received over the last two weeks?
“I mean, if we were scoring 80 points a 
game, people would say: Why aren’t you scoring 90?” Fulwood said.
Really?
“Somebody. I promise you,” he said. 
“Somebody out there would be upset that we 
weren’t scoring 90.”
Fulwood can relate to the criticism Flor-
ida has faced  — not meeting expectations, 
not making enough highlight plays and not being good enough.
But not on Saturday.
In his final home game in The Swamp, 
Fulwood looked like the recruit UF coveted 
four years ago, a 6-foot-4 red-zone threat with soft hands and an impressive vertical.
In the second quarter, he raced to the left 
corner of the end zone and snagged an 18-
yard pass from quarterback Austin Appleby 
for UF’s second touchdown. He jumped over a South Carolina defender’s head for a 30-yard completion in the third quarter. He managed to lift some pressure off Antonio 
Callaway, the receiver opposite him.
And he saved his best performance for his 
last home game, earning his first touchdown 
since 2014 and first regular-season score since Nov. 9, 2013, all in front of South Car-olina coach Will Muschamp, the coach who 
recruited him.
For about three hours on Saturday, in 
front of family and a Senior Day crowd, Ful-
wood’s last three years were forgotten.
“It’s been a rocky road,” Fulwood. 
“Obviously it didn’t go how I wanted it 
to go, how a lot of people wanted it to go.”
Kerry Dixon, UF’s receivers coach, would 
agree. 
Dixon has spoken about the high expecta-
tions he has for Fulwood, wishing he would be as aggressive catching passes as he is 
when he blocks an opposing cornerback on 
an end-around rush.
“I think it’s more of a mindset,” Dixon 
said. “Sometimes, guys don’t want to re-
ally go in there and punch before they get 
punched.”
But on Saturday, if only for two recep-
tions, Fulwood looked like a different player. 
And after UF’s 20-7 win, head coach Jim 
McElwain gushed about the senior.
“I love him, man,” McElwain said. “We 
always talk about be aggressive at the point 
of attack and go up and get the ball, and he did that (Saturday).”
And with two more regular-season games 
left, Fulwood has a chance to be the player he was on Saturday, the tall receiver leaping over defenders and providing a legitimate threat for a lagging offense that desperately 
needs one.
“Mac has always challenged me to be the 
biggest person in the room,” Fulwood said. 
“When that ball was in the air … I wasn’t gonna wait for my chance for that thing to come down.
“I wanted to go take it.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
 FULWOOD THIS SEASON
SATURDAY VS. SOUTH CAROLINA
2 catches, 48 yards, one touchdown
PREVIOUS EIGHT GAMES
5 catches, 64 yards, no touchdownsSenior receiver earning shot at redemption after big game
Fulwood caught his 3rd-career TD 
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Ahmad Fulwood jumps to make a catch during Florida’s 20-7 win over South Carolina on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
the bulk of the carries. He ran 
wild for a career-high 135 yards on 20 rushes. 
Antonio Callaway, an incon-
sistent punt returner all season, finally returned to his 2015 form. He averaged 25 yards per return, 
and even returned a punt for a 
touchdown that was later negated by a holding penalty. 
And maybe most important-
ly, Florida’s young players that 
stepped in with injuries to start-
ers — like the linebacker duo of David Reese and Kylan Johnson, who combined for 18 tackles — 
will need to sustain the high level 
of play they illustrated against South Carolina. 
“The game wasn’t too big for 
them,” McElwain said. “Not one time did they lose their eyes. 
They knew exactly what they 
were supposed to do, and they executed it.”
With UF now down nine regu-
lar starters, including five on de-
fense after safety Marcus Maye 
suffered a season-ending arm in-jury Saturday, questions still sur-round the team. 
But despite those questions, 
Florida’s players aren’t worrying. 
“We’ve got a lot of guys ding-
ed up,” Appleby said. “With that said, the next man’s up.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1RB Scarlett received a bulk of 
the carries against Gamecocks
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Jordan Scarlett (25) stiffarms a defender during Florida’s 20-7 win over South Carolina. The sophomore 
has seperated himself from UF’s other running backs, rushing for a career-high 134 yards on Saturday.
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2016
win also signaled the Gators’ eighth sweep 
in a row, a feat that hasn’t been accom-plished since 2013. 
Due to five service errors by Florida, 
the Tide played the Gators close during a 
sloppy first set. 
However, a 9-3 run led by Holston and 
middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan, who 
combined for 10 kills in the opening frame, helped the Gators take the set 25-18.
“There were so many service errors that 
we just didn’t have an opportunity to go on runs,” UF coach Mary Wise said. “When we were able to go on runs, 
that’s when the match sort of shifted.”
Florida’s steady play in the second and 
third sets proved to be the difference.
The Gators captured the second set 25-
16 due to four service errors and seven at-tack errors by Alabama. 
Florida’s defense, led by Alhassan in 
the front row and libero Caroline Knop in the back row, was stout, holding the Crim-son Tide to a negative .032 hitting percent-age in the set.
In the third and final frame, the Gators 
came out hot, gunning to a quick 10-2 lead. Florida stifled the SEC’s kills leader, Krystal Rivers, at the net. Rivers tallied just seven kills and hit 0 percent for the match.
“The kills did not come easy (for her),” 
Wise said of Rivers. 
“It was a great challenge to see how we 
measured up, and I thought the team re-ally responded today.”
Outside hitter Carli Snyder led Florida 
with 12 kills. Alhassan and Holston tallied 11 and 10 kills, respectively.
For the match, the Gators played their 
fifth contest in a row hitting over .350. 
They also held the Tide to a .000 hitting 
percentage and had 42 kills to Alabama’s 21.
As for Holston, it wasn’t her last match 
at home, but it was the only opportunity her family could make the 800-mile trek from Olney, Maryland, to come watch her play.
“Her game is so elite. … She just does 
her job,” Wise said of Holston. “I may have to go into therapy to get over her graduation.
“But we’re just gonna enjoy this ride 
for as long as it lasts.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 
VOLLEY,  from pg. 13It was the Gators' ifth match in a row hitting above .350