We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 139 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
JJ Schwarz powers Florida 
to season sweep of FSU
The Gators won 8-2, pg. 13
Group unable to test drone due to UF policy
Members presented their research Tuesday, pg. 3
Guests can take a walk on the wild side
Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation holds its ﬁ  rst 
spring safari, pg. 5Check out videos accompanying 
“Through Their Eyes” online
Find them at alligator.org
THROUGH THEIR EYES: PART THREE
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Annie Carper always asks before she holds their hand.
It’s a different person each time, waiting in an examina-
tion chair.
But while the person is different, each one is a survivor 
of sexual assault.
And Carper will only be there if they ask.“They have chosen me — most likely a stranger — to 
be with them in one of the most intimate and difﬁ  cult ex-periences they have maybe ever been through,” she said. “I always tell my clients that it’s a privilege to be with them in that place.”
      
A victim advocate at UF for the past year and a half, 
Carper is one of the faces survivors see as they begin re-covery — working through the initial medical examina-
tions in the aftermath of an assault.
Carper’s goal is to help empower the survivors and give 
them back control of their lives.
The survivor dictates how involved Carper is in their 
recovery.  
“A lot of that depends on if there is other support avail-
able or if I’m the primary source of support,” she said.
The norm, though, is for Carper to be right beside the 
survivor, their ﬁ  ngers laced together while a sexual as-
sault nurse gathers evidence for a rape kit.
A familiar face in the examination room for Carper is The road to 
recovery
THE PLAY WILL BENEFIT THE DORIS BARDON 
COMMUNITY CULTURAL CENTER.
By Brenna McKenna
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thirteen women hope to bring more than 40 characters 
to life this weekend.
Sidney Homan’s All-Woman Company will present All 
Joking Aside: An Evening of Short Comedies on Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m.
The performers are part of Homan’s independent study 
class, The Art and Craft of Comedy, in UF’s Department of English. When Homan asked students to join the act-ing company, he was surprised to find that only women volunteered.
“When I had the 13 women, we put our heads together 
and said, ‘Oh, boy, this is going to be interesting because women are going to have to be playing men’s roles,’” Homan said.
The play will benefit The Doris Bardon Community 
Cultural Center, located at 1315 S. Main St., which will serve as the show’s venue.
“It used to be an old night club and needs some, 
like, major building renovations,” said Anna Morgan, a 
22-year-old UF English senior and one of the 13 perform-ers.
Homan said the group is accepting a suggested dona-
tion of $15 from the public and $10 from students.
The students, he said, have rehearsed since the begin-
ning of the semester and will each play three to four roles 
throughout 13 sketches.
Margaret Egeln, a 22-year-old UF English senior, said 
the show will offer a new look at sketches from the book 
“Laugh Lines: Short Comic Plays,” edited by Eric Lane 
and Nina Shengold.
“Not only are you, like, performing a show, you’re also 
gaining skills that can help you in real-world situations,” 
she said.UF professor puts on all-women beneﬁ  t comedy playSEE THROUGH THEIR EYES,  PAGES 8-9“They have chosen me — most likely a stranger — to 
be with them in one of the most intimate and diicult 
experiences they have maybe ever been through,” she 
said. “I always tell my clients that it’s a privilege to be 
with them in that place.”
Annie Carper
victim advocate at UF By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF coaches answered questions 
Tuesday night about both sports and 
their personal lives.
Jim McElwain, UF’s head football 
coach, and Mike White, the men’s bas-
ketball head coach, spoke in the Univer-
sity Auditorium to about 250 people. 
Ted Spiker, UF’s journalism chair, 
asked questions about the most enter-taining games they’ve coached and their ﬁ  rst dates. Spiker’s questions showed the coaches’ lives off the ﬁ  eld.
“I love to mow the lawn,” McElwain 
said, in response to a question asking what he does when he’s not working. “I can power wash a driveway like no-body’s business.”
White said this was his ﬁ  rst time 
speaking with students and press. He told students he met his wife after seeing 
a picture of her college volleyball team. 
He went to a volleyball party just to meet her.“It was not ‘we met’ or ‘someone in-
troduced us’; it was stalking,” he said. The coaches also spoke about how they felt about their teams’ performances.
“For the ﬁ  rst time in 10 years, we 
weren’t the most penalized team in the 
SEC (Southeastern Conference),” McEl-
wain said.
UF microbiology and cell science se-
nior Charles Pertuz said he came to learn more about the coaches’ personal lives.
“It was great to get to know about 
them,” the 22-year-old said. “We are all pretty proud of what they did.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF coaches discuss ﬁ  rst dates, athletes
Emma Green/Alligator Staff
UF football head coach Jim McElwain introduces himself and his philosophies to an audience of about 250 peo-
ple in the University Auditorium on Tuesday night. The Accent Speakers Bureau hosted a Q&A session with UF Department of Journalism chair T ed Spiker, UF basketball head coach Mike White and McElwain.
About 250 people attendedSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Ashley’s Consent,’ an interac-
tive and educational theater 
experienceBrought to you by the UF Center for Arts in Medicine and spon-
sored by the Dean of Students 
Office, the Office of Victim Services, Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell and the Student Health Care Center, “Ashley’s Consent” presents a story of sexual assault and all that follows in an innovative 
multimedia format. After each 
performance, attendees can participate in a discussion and debriefing with the cast, victim advocates and peer counselors to explore the question, “What constitutes sexual assault, and when should I intervene?” The play will run through Thursday 
at the Newins-Ziegler Hall 
breezeway, and seating is limited to 75 people for each performance. Read more about the play and register for tickets online at shcc.ufl.edu/ashleys-consent.
Thursday: Get in the game with 
Be The Match to save livesThe Athletic Training Program in the UF College of Health and Human Performance is calling on every member of The Gator Nation to get in the game to save a life! Help UF beat oth-
er competing universities for 
the most people registered as potential marrow donors on the national Be The Match Registry. Register yourself on campus Thursday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Harrell Medical Education Building, located at 1104 Newell Drive, or register 
and take part in the competi-
tion online at join.bethematch.org/UF. If you are between the ages of 18 and 44, patients need you! Learn more at shcc.ufl.edu/be-the-match-uf.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 139
HIGH  82° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
Sure, you could work for a buzzworthy tech company 
that has a playground in the lunchroom. Or you could come to the CIA – where you’ll embark on a mission to keep Americans safe. With your STEM background, critical thinking skills and intellectual curiosity, you’ll crack some of the toughest challenges imaginable – from developing the world’s most advanced technology to seeing the complex narrative in big data.
This is your opportunity to have a career that’s as 
meaningful as it is challenging.  Apply today.YOU KNOW TO
PROTECT OUR NATION.OR YOU CAN APPLY  
YOU KNOW TO
OR YOU CAN APPLY
YOU CAN LAND A GIG IN SILICON VALLEY
THE WORK OF A NATION. 
THE CENTER OF INTELLIGENCE.cia.gov/careers
An equal opportunity employer 
and a drug-free workforce.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales InternSales Representative
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to Ms. Jordan Thurn atGain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekends
Email resume for sales rep position to Shaun O’Connor at
intern@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Summer 2016
soconnor@alligator.org
*Must be enrolled in summer 
classes at UF or Santa Fe to apply
A ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thAlligator Advertisers 
The Alligator will not be publishing from
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thThursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9th
The Deadline for Tuesday, May 10th is
Friday, May 6th by 4:00 pmFriday, May 6th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed 
Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume 
publication again on 
Tuesday, May 10thAlligator Advertisers Alligator Advertisers 
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionMEMBERS PRESENTED 
THEIR RESEARCH ON 
TUESDAY.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
A model plane built by UF stu-
dents never got off the ground.
About 20 student teams pre-
sented engineering projects at the 
Integrated Product and Process De-sign Final Design Review on Tues-day, where students showcased the 
products they built for their spon-
sors at the Reitz Union Grand Ball-room. 
The Reverse Air Team, which 
attempted to reverse-engineer a 
model plane and ﬂ  y it, could not 
complete its initial project due to UF regulations on drones and air-craft set place in January.
In order to ﬂ  y a drone on cam-
pus, users must get certiﬁ  cation by the Federal Aviation Administra-tion and be approved by UF’s Envi-ronmental Health and Safety Ofﬁ  ce, 
according to Alligator archives. 
Students must also provide 
proof of insurance and contact the 
FFA themselves to get certiﬁ  cation.
When the six-member team re-
ceived the email, the members were halfway through their research, which they started Fall 2015. The plane fell under UF’s drone regula-
tions.
The team was reverse-engineer-
ing a replica of a World War II war-
hawk attack plane. For this, stu-
dents took a non-functional model 
apart piece by piece and tried to improve its ﬂ  ight abilities, said Sam Gamble, a member of the team.
The team’s faculty advisor, Carl 
Crane, said UF’s sudden regulation prevented the model from being 
tested. He said the team couldn’t 
ﬂ  y it in the football team’s indoor practice facility, the only space with enough room to test it.
“They grounded us,” said Crane, 
a professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engi-neering. “We just weren’t able to ﬂ  y the model.”
Gamble, a UF aerospace and 
mechanical engineering senior, said there wasn’t enough time to get the plane approved and tested before 
the end of the semester. Because 
the team was modifying the model, they couldn’t guarantee it was safe to ﬂ  y, a needed qualiﬁ  cation by the FAA.
“It’s more paperwork on more 
paperwork,” the 21-year-old said.
Instead of testing the 3-foot-tall 
plane’s ﬂ  ight abilities, the team 
made a manual explaining theo-
ries behind reverse-engineering the plane, she said. UF funded the re-search project, but in order to test it, the students would have had to 
spend $600 on a new plane to be 
approved.
“If we had paid for it ourselves, 
we would have been able to ﬂ  y it,” 
she said.
On Tuesday, Gamble and the 
rest of the team presented the mod-
el plane and theories to their com-pany sponsor, Northrop Grumman, 
a global security company, without 
real ﬂ  ight data.
“It’s what it is now,” said Gam-
ble. “I just hope UF, I guess, will 
provide more aid in ﬁ  lling out the 
application.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgUF engineering group unable to test drone due to UF policy
LEFT:
The model World War II war-
hawk attack plane built by the UF Reverse Air T eam cannot be ﬂ  own due to UF’s regulations on drones and aircrafts set place in January.  
BELOW:
Members of the UF Reverse Air T eam show off their model plane at the Integrated Product and Process Design Final De-sign Review on Tuesday.
Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
A student news organization 
is battling a Florida university for 
the right to know the names of Student Government officials in meetings and documents.
On Friday, Knight News, Inc., 
a student newspaper, won against the University of Central Florida in a court case that began in 2013.
In an opinion released Friday 
from Florida’s Fifth District Court of Appeal, the appellate court found that a previous court should have required UCF to reveal the 
names of Student Government 
officials accused of engaging in misconduct in impeachment docu-ments.
Previously, both the trial court 
and the appellate court supported the university’s claim that it could cover the names of students in Student Government documents 
because of the Family Educational 
Rights and Privacy Act, said Justin Hemlepp, an attorney for Knight News.
“If UCF somehow had won this 
or still finds a way to do so, it will force every other Student Gov-ernment in this state at a public university or community college 
to shut down their records to the 
public, to shut down their meet-ings to the public,” he said. “And all the sudden all of these Student Governments will be operating in secrecy.”
The university could not be 
reached for comment.
In court documents, the uni-
versity stated that FERPA protects the rights of student information, including SG officials.
In March, Knight News filed 
another lawsuit against UCF after the university closed an election commissions meeting to the pub-lic. The paper is arguing that Flor-ida’s Sunshine Law allows public 
access to public officials, including 
those in SG.
Knights News is waiting for a 
response from UCF.
“It’s a different school, two 
hours away, but it could come to our backyard,” UF SG’s Solicitor General Nicholas Gurney said.
Gurney, who advises UF sena-
tors and students on UF’s Consti-tution and codes, was a former attorney general for UCF’s Student Government Association (SGA).
UF SG adviser James Tyger de-
clined to comment on the cases and directed the Alligator to UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
Sikes wrote in an email that the 
university is keeping an eye on the ongoing litigation to see how it could impact UF.
In addition to the two cases 
filed by Knight News, Jacob Milich, a student who attempted to run for UCF Student Body presi-dent, also filed a case against the university.
UCF’s elections commission re-
moved him from the ballot follow-ing a closed-to-the-public meeting, he said.
The 25-year-old Marine veteran 
said he offered to drop the lawsuit if he was put back on the ballot for the elections. The university declined, he said.
“We’re preparing for trial, es-
sentially,” he said. “It’s a fight worth fighting. This cannot hap-pen again.”
Chad Binette, the assistant vice 
president for UCF News & Infor-mation, wrote in an email that the university’s SGA is governed by its own procedures, and candidates such as Milich are required to fol-low the rules set by their SGA.
“During the SGA campaign, 
Mr. Milich asked a circuit court to intervene in the process,” Binette said. “A judge denied his request for a temporary injunction, and we believe his lawsuit is merit-less.” 
The 2016 lawsuit was launched 
under Brigitte Snedeker, the news editor for Knight News. Friday’s opinion validated the paper’s fight for transparency in SGA, the 20-year-old UCF radio-television and Latin American studies junior said.
“We’re just really happy that 
this motion came through today, and it just shows that nonprofit news organizations can make a difference against the big guys,” Snedeker said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgStudents, newspaper 
sue UCF over records By Sophie Smadbeck
Alligator Contributing Writer
Part of the 34th Street Wall 
now reads “In Honor of Fallen 
Women.”
About 18 UF students in the 
Latino Hispanic Organization of Graduate Students painted the purple and green mural this 
month.  The mural commemorates 
women killed in Latin America.
Three Latin American women 
inspired the mural, said Diego Juárez, the president of LOGRAS. 
Berta Cáceres, a Honduran 
environmental activist, was mur-dered in her home March 3 for her work protecting Honduras’ land.
Marina Menegazzo and María 
José Coni were Argentine college students killed while traveling without a man in Ecuador. Silhou-ettes of the college students walk-
ing up a mountain can be seen in 
the mural.
Juárez, a 24-year-old UF wild-
life ecology and conservation 
graduate student, and Macarena 
Deij Prado, a LOGRAS member, said the three women’s stories an-gered them.
“We decided to do a mural be-
cause it was making a statement,” Juárez said. “We said, ‘These are recent problems and events that have happened, but that’s only an example of what’s happening around the world.’”
The group decided to paint 
a mural in late March to honor Women’s History Month and re-cent events, he said.
It took about nine hours to 
sketch the mural and about seven hours to paint it, Juárez said. The other members’ desire to paint the mural surprised him.
“I wasn’t sure in the first place 
if we were actually going to make it, and then people were so enthu-siastic about it,” Juárez said.
Juárez and Deij Prado, a 
28-year-old UF art history gradu-ate student, said making the mu-ral created a sense of community 
among members.
“It’s part of our history, and 
we wanted to just say something 
about that,” Deij Prado said.
Honoring Latin American women
THE FILM IS CALLED ‘DREAM ON. ’
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Labor Coalition will join the 
Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St., to 
screen “Dream On” today at 7 p.m. The film will later air on PBS.
The documentary is hosted by John Fugelsang, a 
former host of America’s Funniest Home Videos, who argues the American Dream is dwindling and wage inequality is increasing.
“It talks about a state of being that a lot of Ameri-
cans are experiencing right now: a declining middle class who are working longer and harder hours,” said Jason Fults, a Santa Fe College professor and co-chair of the coalition.
Fults said he feels disheartened when Gainesville residents feel stuck in a certain socioeconomic class.
It’s also unfortunate, he said, when recent college 
graduates have to worry about maintaining a livable wage.
“I know a tremendous number of over-educated 
poor people,” he said.
Alachua County has the highest wage inequalities 
in the country, said Sheila Payne, a membership co-ordinator for the coalition.
She said county workers could put more money 
into the local economy if they spent less on living.
“They’re not going on fabulous vacations to the 
Bahamas,” she said of county workers. “They’re just paying their rent on time.”
UF history professor Paul Ortiz previewed the film 
and said he enjoyed following the travels of Alexis de Tocqueville, a propagandist of the American Dream.
“I would say that the condition of the American 
Dream right now is in peril,” he said.American Dream film previews in 
Gainesville before PBS showing
By J.W. Glass
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thousands of books will go on sale Sat-
urday, but a line will begin for the Friends 
of the Library’s Spring 2016 Book Sale on Thursday night, said P.j. van Blokland, a sorter for the organization and a professor in the UF Food and Resource Economics De-partment.
The sale runs from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Satur-
day and from noon to 6 p.m. Sunday through Wednesday.
Tuesday is half-price day, and Wednes-
day is 10-cent day. Prices generally range from 25 cents to $4, according to the website.
Aside from books, the sale will also in-clude DVDs, posters, records, comic books, paintings and other materials, van Blokland 
said.
“We will probably get somewhere around 
$130,000 to $150,000 from the sales, and 
there’s a lot of books,” he said.
Friends of the Library hosts two large 
book sales each year, he said, and the profits are split among Alachua County’s libraries.“What’s nice about it is that there’s a lot 
of old people coming, but there’s a lot of 
young people also,” van Blokland said.
Gabriel Vasquez-Peterson, a 19-year-old 
UF English sophomore, visited the sale last 
year and said he is excited to go again.
“Everything’s pretty cheap, and when-
ever I go I always end up getting more books than I intended to,” he said.Massive book sale to make its regular appearance
A mural will be painted
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF students in the Latino Hispanic Organization of Graduate Students 
sketch the plans for the mural they painted on the 34th Street Wall.   STUDENT GOVERNMENT
“W e’re just really happy 
that this motion came 
through today, and it 
shows that nonprofit news 
organizations can make a 
difference against the big 
guys.”
Brigitte Snedeker
Knight News editorWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
NO PLACE LIKE GNOME
Kim Crowell, a 28-year-old UF museum studies alumna, paints a gnome at Reitz Union Board Enter-
tainment’s Gnome-A-Palooza. About 40 people attended the event on Tuesday evening at the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center. 
LOCAL
By Renee Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are using videos to teach others 
about current agricultural issues and how they 
can affect the future.
Money for the videos came from a $90,000 
grant UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Agricultural Education and Commu-nication Department received in March. It will 
be used to educate the public about topics in-cluding citrus greening and the BP oil spill in 
2010, which affected Apalachicola, Florida.
The citrus greening videos will address ge-
netically modified organisms, invasive species and treatments to control citrus greening, a dis-ease that kills plants and keeps their fruit from sweetening. Citrus greening has no known 
cure. Oil spill videos will address what hap-
pened, food safety and bay restoration.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture split the grant between UF, Texas Tech University and Colorado State University.
Each school will produce content about ag-
ricultural issues facing the communities, said Ricky Telg, the director of the UF/IFAS Center for Public Issues Education. 
He said the goal of the project is to teach 
students about topics affecting agriculture and natural resources so UF students can better in-form the public.
“In this particular project, we’re getting un-
dergraduate students and graduate students involved, so they’re actually learning while do-ing,” Telg said.The research will count toward class cur-
riculum, he said.
Gordon Yoder, a UF agricultural education 
and communication junior, is creating two short videos about how the 2010 BP oil spill af-fected the economy and the health of oysters in the water. He and the 12 other students in the 
class will make more than two dozen videos.
“We’ve learned a lot more about the issues, 
and I think that helps us when we’re making 
the videos,” the 20-year-old said. “When these 
are released, the audiences can get the best 
grasps of what the issue is and what is being done to manage these issues.” Grant supplies money for agricultural educationBy Nicole Dan
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the first time, the Carson 
Springs Wildlife Conservation 
Foundation will host a spring sa-fari.
Visitors are usually required 
to schedule a tour, but guests can roam the grounds without a tour guide Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., said Christine Janks, a co-founder and the president of the foundation.
Carson Springs, located at 8528 
E. County Road 225, is home to 70 animals and 25 species, including 
a giraffe, lion and cheetah, accord-
ing to the event’s Facebook page.
Profits from the event — which 
will also include food trucks and raffles — will go toward food, toys, enclosure improvements and veterinary costs, Janks, 65, said.Though it does not receive state 
or federal funding, the park is able to exist with support from private 
donors, she said.
“People that attend our event 
and the open house or take tours 
are critical to us being able to care for these animals,” Janks said.
Animal parks are necessary for 
the conservation of wild animals as well, she said, because visitors may donate to the foundation after 
a close encounter with nature.
“There has to be some sort of 
connection,” she said.
Sandi Faurie, 48, said she has 
been to the park and will drive 
from her home in Jacksonville, Florida, to visit the safari.
“My favorite part is how Chris-
tine and (her husband) Barry have 
made the enclosures as close to 
being in (the animals’) natural habitat,” she said.Guests can take a 
walk on the wild side
They received about $90,000The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The quest to ﬁ  nd a 
qualiﬁ  ed president 
Over the past few weeks, it appeared as though Ber-
nie Sanders and Hillary Clinton were about ready to channel a Mortal Kombat-level deathmatch over each 
other’s qualiﬁ  cations. The ﬁ  re may have subsided, 
but many voters, including us Alligator staffers, still 
wonder: Is either Sanders or Clinton truly qualiﬁ  ed to be presi-dent? Better yet, what does it mean to be “qualiﬁ  ed”?
We looked it up, and according to every source we could 
ﬁ  nd, including the Library of Congress’ website, the only three qualiﬁ  cations for the presidency are as follows: One must be 35 years of age or older, a natural-born U.S. citizen and a U.S. resident for at least 14 years. By these standards, really anyone 
could be president. Now some of you might think, “Well that’s 
ﬁ  ne and dandy, but experience is really the determining fac-tor.” Not necessarily.
Ronald Reagan didn’t enter politics until he was 55, fol-
lowing a career in acting and television hosting. Yet Reagan is easily one of the most memorable presidents of recent history; a particular party even lauds him as the best we’ve had. On the other end of the spectrum, Richard Nixon walked in with an incredible amount of governing experience. Yet, when push 
came to shove, Watergate happened and now many look back 
on him with disdain.
We’ve disregarded experience for charisma and likeability 
before. Now, as the 2016 primary season draws to a conten-
tious close, we the people need to make some important deci-
sions.
In the event the GOP is tasked with appointing a new nomi-
nee at a contested Republican convention this July, or let’s say Thursday’s Democratic debate in Brooklyn, New York, gets 
so lit from the amount of shots ﬁ  red and shade thrown that 
Sanders and Clinton are forced to suspend their campaigns, we need to start thinking of candidates who can step up to the plate. Remember, the candidate must be “qualiﬁ  ed.”
How about Mark Ruffalo? Not only does he ﬁ  t the three re-
quirements, but he also has ﬁ  rsthand experience with keeping us safe from actual illegal aliens as The Incredible Hulk. When Dwight D. Eisenhower described the presidency in 1955, he argued, “No man on earth knows what this job is all about; 
it’s pound, pound, pound.” Well, can you think of anyone 
who pounds better than an angry, green and half-naked Ruf-falo himself?
Or what about a tree? In terms of being 35 years or older in 
age, any tree by the Reitz Union North Lawn, for instance, is far more qualiﬁ  ed than any candidate we have. Think about it: Trees are the classic American story. From humble beginnings, starting off with nothing but dirt (or soil), they rise from the ground up while maintaining deep roots in neighboring ethnic 
communities. And they bring that fresh outsider’s perspective 
voters love, literally: They’ve been outside all of their lives. Not to mention, they have yet to take a single cent from Wall Street or Big Pharma  —  maybe a little bit from Big Ferna.
All this to say, the media’s “he said, she said” over this 
qualiﬁ  cations issue was unnecessary. Clearly, both candidates are qualiﬁ  ed: turn the page, next chapter. Besides, at the end of the day, we all really just want to see Jon Stewart and Ste-phen Colbert descend from the heavens and save our political 
system. #StewartColbert2020My satire fell flat — anybody got a spare?
Satire’s funny, right? Well, it can be. 
Cool, let’s talk about that then. Sat-ire provides commentary through irony — sarcasm, in most cases. And, as I’ve spouted at least twice, irony 
or “subversion of expectation” is the root of all comedy. Saying one thing and meaning another. Presenting one perception and jux-taposing it with the truth. How much more pretentiously can I describe it? There will al-ways be bigger words in the dictionary; you may as well aim low in that regard.
What’s the ﬁ  rst thing that pops into your head when 
you think of satire? Probably The Onion, the online sa-
tirical news outlet. Or, you thought of The Really In-
dependent Florida Crocodile, a different satirical news outlet. If you thought of the Crocodile ﬁ  rst, though, you probably work at the Crocodile, in which case: Your news outlet has an odd sense of professionalism.
For the folks who don’t remember, I’m still the re-
ally attractive and really single guy who writes “Lifeless Joey,” the comic that’s most likely over there on the other page. I’m pretty proud of that “high-strung” pun, 
if you’ve read Tuesday’s paper. Regardless, the Croco-
dile and I had a little run-in once, but it’s water under the bridge. If I were to describe the encounter any fur-ther, I’d be beating a dead horse… not unlike what the Crocodile does in its articles. Zing!
I’m incredibly professional, I promise.So, what does The Onion satirize? What does it pro-
vide commentary on? Well, it’s a satire on media and sensationalist journalism. It takes mundane activities 
and makes them headlines. It takes predictable actions 
and relays them as breaking news. The Onion also pro-vides plenty of commentary on politics, which tends to dominate the media as well. So, The Onion satirizes the media and its bad habits. What about the Crocodile? What does it satire?
Here’s the funny thing: You think they’d be satiriz-
ing the Alligator, right? They’ve taken the name “Croco-dile,” adopted an eerily similar masthead to the Alligator’s and constantly berate the Alli-gator in more ways than one (almost two, ac-tually). But, in reality, the Crocodile doesn’t really satirize the Alligator. The content nev-
er addresses the Alligator’s journalistic style, 
nor does it refer to any of the Alligator’s sto-ries directly. Rather, the Crocodile is simply UF’s The Onion, and the elements it takes from the Alligator just make the Crocodile a parody rather than a satire. A satire com-
ments; a parody acknowledges and borrows.
To be a pretentious prick and quote a pretentious 
prick, some guy once said, “Satire is a lesson; parody is 
a game.” You know who said that? Vladimir Nabokov. 
You know how to pronounce that? I sure don’t. I don’t believe in the Russian language. It’s a myth.
When we start to drift off into copyright law stuff, 
you start to see the idea that a derivative work should comment on the original work, or it’s probably plagia-rism. And that makes sense, right? If you’re going to borrow components of a work, you better use those components to prove a point. Does the Crocodile do 
that? Not really. It just kind of takes the masthead and 
the name and does a quick tease at the Alligator every now and again. Sounds legit.
I can’t quite say I like the Crocodile. It’s pretty run-
of-the-mill as far as satirical news goes, and the comedy tends to halt after the headlines. But, the magazine’s doing well for itself, so I’ve got nothing to say. Four stars. Two thumbs up.
I do have to give an opinion at some point, right? 
Hmm. Well, here’s one: Hummus winds more coher-ently than an altercation despite the amassed coagu-lation of despotism present and persistent in contem-porary Carnot engines. Debate that among yourselves, how about it?
Michael Smith is a box of Kraft macaroni and 
cheese. Inanimate objects cannot write columns, much less have them usually appear on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
In a lawsuit ﬁ  led last Tuesday, a small 
group of New England Patriots fans — not the same patriots from 250 years 
ago — demanded the NFL return the 
Patriots’ ﬁ  rst-round draft pick. The 
draft pick was taken from the team by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell before last 
season in response to the questionably de-
ﬂ  ated footballs used by the New England team in the 2015 playoffs. 
The scandal is better known as “Deﬂ  ate-
gate” — as if it deserved any right to share a 
comparison with something as historically 
signiﬁ  cant as Watergate. Then again, Seth Carey, the lawyer who ﬁ  led the lawsuit last week, had no problem drawing histori-
cal ties. As he put it, “We have an uphill 
battle, but that never stopped a bunch of simple farmers with muskets from taking down a mighty repressive regime.”
Well, thank goodness they weren’t the 
ones ﬁ  ghting for this country’s freedom, because a federal court rejected the lawsuit this past Monday. And although the trivial squabble may be over, it doesn’t solve the apparent phenomenon trending in the NFL where fans are taking their devotion too far.  
Football is America’s game 
because it has always stood for what America is. It still does today, but not in enlightening 
terms. According to The New 
York Times, the average price for a ticket to Super Bowl I was $85, after adjusting for inﬂ  ation. This year, tickets for Super Bowl L went for thou-
sands of dollars. Professional players used 
to have second jobs in the off-season be-cause 21-year-olds weren’t given million-dollar contracts. 
Football used to be the sport of the 
working class, but now the Americans who ﬁ  nd importance in suing over an NFL draft pick are the same people who prioritize values seen important by the very few. For 
example, the main plaintiff, Todd Orsatti, 
is suing because his seven-year-old daugh-ter “will no longer go to games with him because she thinks the games are ﬁ  xed by the NFL after her team was pun-ished merely based on conjec-ture. She is talking about ﬁ  nding 
another team.” Life is tough all 
around.
The main issue at hand is 
that Patriots fans are missing 
the bigger picture here. Does it 
have to do with the fact that the resources used for this lawsuit 
could have been used for bigger and bet-ter problems? Battling poverty? Combating 
climate change?
Nah. New England fans are missing the 
fact that Goodell’s nab of the Patriots’ 2016 
draft pick actually does the organization a 
favor. Bill Belichick, the greatest coach in 
Patriots and NFL history — in his eyes — almost always gives away the ﬁ  rst-round pick. In 2010, Belichick traded away the Patriots’ 22nd and 24th picks to the Bron-
cos and Cowboys, passing up on future 
Super Bowl champion Demaryius Thomas and two-time Pro-Bowler Dez Bryant. If anything, losing the 2016 draft pick pre-vents Belichick from tarnishing his coveted self-image any further than necessary.
Maybe some New England fans believe 
they’re playing the Patriots for football’s freedom from Goodell’s tyranny. But hon-estly, it’s just a draft pick. Tom Brady himself, future Hall of Fame quarterback 
and potential Calvin Klein model, wasn’t 
picked until the sixth round of the 2000 draft anyway. If Patriots fans are so wor-ried about ﬁ  nding another gem in the draft, other teams will have no problem giving 
up their sixth-round picks.
It may have been only a handful of Pa-
triots fans who were a part of last week’s 
lawsuit, but in how they’ve handled it, 
they not only disgrace the entire Patriots 
fan base, but they also give more reason for foreign citizens to shake their heads at U.S. sports and say “those Americans.” 
Football used to be about the game it-
self. It should be so in the future.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical 
engineering freshman. His column appears on Wednesdays.
'Deflategate' and draft picks: Football fanaticism can be taken too far Column
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
nurse practitioner Jennifer Do-
nelan, who is one of two nurses 
in the Student Health Care Cen-
ter qualified to perform forensic sexual assault  exams.
No survivor has to pay for 
an exam, and the clinic does ev-
erything it can to alleviate other 
costs that may arise, such as pre-scriptions and follow-up services, Donelan said
“Cost is not something we 
want people to be limited by,” she said.
The result is more people than 
ever coming forward to report 
incidents and have exams per-
formed, especially since a foren-sic exam is covered for survivors at both the SHCC on campus and UF Health Shands Hospital.
Carper said about 250 students 
came forward last year for victim 
advocate services. 
She said she believes that num-
ber will increase because students 
are becoming more aware of their options in a changing culture.
For that reason, the Office of Victim Services is hiring a third advocate to join Carper and her fellow advocate, Naomi Phineas.
“I think for a long time the cul-
ture of reporting sexual violence in particular was very much cen-tered around the victim and what they may have done to be in that situation,” Carper said. “We are 
creating an environment that is 
more conducive of people coming forward.”Donelan said she agreed. The 
increase in number is not due to more assaults but an increase in 
people recognizing it is not their 
fault when this happens, she said.
“They’re sort of understand-ing the definition of assault and the definition of consent better than they used to and feeling safe 
reaching out,” she said.  
But, for Carper, the feeling of 
clammy hands, shaky breaths and 
heartbreaking stories never gets 
easier.
“You wish that you could fix 
it,” she said. “You wish that you 
could take away that pain and suffering.”
•   •   •
Every time Jennifer Donelan 
tears open a rape kit, she plays two parts.
She is a doctor, and she is a 
human. 
She knows that behind every 
new rape kit is a new person with 
a heartbreaking story, but she 
also knows it is her job to collect evidence to help them.
The navy blue examination 
chair sits in the center of her 
office, her desk only an arm’s 
length away.
It’s an examination area where 
Donelan treats women for birth 
control, sexually transmitted in-
fections, gynecology and other health needs. THROUGH 
THEIR EYES,  from pg 1The Office of Victim Services is hiring a third advocate
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
This is an Florida Department of Law Enforcement-issued rape kit. This semester, the Women’s Clinic has completed two. The clinic is located at 280 Fletcher Drive.  
It’s also where she performs 
forensic exams collecting evi-
dence from sexual assault survi-
vors.
She focuses on gathering as 
much evidence as she can. 
As she pulls out a black comb, 
she collects pubic hair and swabs 
for DNA residue.
For about two hours she lis-
tens to her patient’s story as she examines and documents every 
bruise, scratch and memory of 
that person’s sexual assault.  
She closes the rape kit with 
bright red seals and protects 
it until law enforcement picks 
it up. Even if a survivor hasn’t made a decision to press charges, a completed rape kit can be held in evidence.
“I always tell people it’s fine 
to not want to,” she said. “The one thing to know is that it gives you options later. We often see 
that after a while when things 
soften out and people have thought about things, sometimes they want to have those options available.”
•   •   •
This semester, the clinic has 
completed only two rape kits, despite the high statistical preva-
lence of sexual assault among 
students.“It’s very intense,” Donelan 
said. “They’re at their most vul-nerable when they come in this 
situation. I’m mostly just very 
grateful that I am able to provide something to them.”
However, a survivor can 
only go to the Women’s Clinic, located at 280 Fletcher Drive, Monday through Friday between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 
have a rape kit examination.
Those who can’t be treated 
by the nurses at the SHCC are 
sent to the emergency room at Shands, Donelan said. 
There are more trained sexual 
assault nurse examiners who are on call to respond to sexual as-sault cases.
Of the patients Donelan has 
seen, none have been male.
“I don’t love the fact that we are housed in the Women’s Clin-ic for that purpose,” she said.
Men less commonly report 
their assault, Donelan said, but she is trained to perform an exam on a man if needed.
“We can certainly perform a 
forensic exam on anyone regard-less of their gender identity in exactly the same way,” she said. “You can swab anywhere that 
was involved in an assault, and 
the actual paperwork that we use to document injuries have both male and female figures.”
She and the clinic’s other 
trained nurse practitioner, Susan Ryals, have performed nine rape kit exams this school year. The numbers vary by semester, Do-
nelan said.  
The clinic has also seen eight 
sexual assault patients this school year who were treated for 
care related to sexual assault but chose not to have an exam done.
“That’s one of the reasons that 
we have to send so many to the ER,” she said. “There are only two of us, and we’re also doing our normal daily activities.”
Because the number of survi-
vors coming forward is increas-ing, a third nurse will begin the 40-hour sexual assault examina-
tion training in May, Donelan 
said.
Even as more survivors are 
coming forward and a third nurse is joining Donelan, she can’t help 
but worry about the future in a 
world where people still often disregard consent
“It’s very intense emotion-
ally,” she said. “It’s part of our job. I definitely go home on a day after I’ve done one of these ex-ams and hug my kids tighter and feel the weight of that responsi-
bility.”
Editor’s note: This is part of an 
ongoing series on sexual assault 
survivors. See Thursday’s paper 
for an overview of the legal op-tions and processes that survi-vors experience.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
WHO TO CONTACT
Victims Advocate
A Victims Advocate is available 
24 hours a day by calling UPD’s 
Dispatch Center at 352-392-1111. During business hours, Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Ad-vocates can be contacted directly at 352-392-5648. You can email Vic-tim Advocates at annekcarper@ufl.edu and nphineas@ufl.edu 
U Matter We Care 
You can confidentially and 
anonymously reach out to the Dean of Student’s Office U Matter We Care team about students who may need help at umatter@ufl.edu
STRIVE
STRIVE peer educators are 
available to hold open nonjudg-mental forums for discussion of issues related to sexual violence.  You can contact them at 352-392-1575 or visit their website at gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
UF LGBT Affairs
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender (LGBT) Affairs pro-vides education, advocacy, and support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and straight-allied students, staff, and faculty at the University of Florida. You can reach the Univer-sity of Florida LGBT Office at 352-392-1261 or email lbh@multicul-tural.ufl.edu. 
Medical Care
The University of Florida Stu-
dent Health Care Center leads, col-laborates, and excels in the provi-sion of comprehensive services through wellness promotion and compassionate and accessible care. The Student Health Care Center also has a Women’s Health Care Clinic that is a nurse practitioner-run clinic with a female focus. The clinic includes but is not limited to services such as counseling on con-traceptive options, sexually trans-mitted disease/infection (STD/STI) prevention, sexuality and other women’s health, screening, diag-nosis and treatment of STDs/STIs, breast exams and instruction in self-examination, pap smears and routine pelvic exams and pregnan-cy testing.
Counseling Services
The University of Florida Coun-
seling and Wellness Center has professional counselors and thera-pists on staff and offers individual or group counseling dealing with any form of sexual exploitation or other issues related to victimiza-tion. All counseling services are free and confidential. The center has an excellent referral system should your needs be better met by a different agency or program. You can reach the University of Florida Counseling and Wellness Center at:
3190 Radio Road(352) 392-1575www.counsel.ufl.edu/cwc 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Jennifer Donelan, a UF Women’s Clinic nurse practitioner and trained sexual assault nurse examiner works with survivors and victim advocates.“It’s very intense. They’re at their most 
vulnerable when they come in this 
situtation. I’m mostly just grateful that I 
am able to provide something to them.”
Jennifer Donelan
UF Women’s Clinic nurse practitionerBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer 
$300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / 
month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Home for the Outdoor Enthusiast!
10 min drive from UF, 3/2, 1891 sf, $235,000, 
photos can be seen at http://9215cr2082.
canbyours.com/. Call Mike, 352,665-0073   
4-13-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
FOR SALE Well Loved, Well maintained, 
& Well Raced Tri Gear
1 55 cm LITESPEED SABER TRI BIKE, 9 
sp DA, New Seat, Excellent wheels, Oval Trailing Front Brake, Ouzo Aero Pro fork, Integrated Profile Design aero bar/bull horns, 
XLab bottle holders - $950 
700C ZIP TUBULAR WHEELS 303 Front, 
404 Rear, SS blade spokes- $650700C PROTOTYPE ROLF 12 bladed spoke front wheel - $75700C clincher tires/tubes FREE w wheel or bike purchaseThis stuff led to 65 podium placings, I've moved on to adventure cyclingcoachallen@rehabtoracing.com or Text to 571-213-0254                    4-19-16-5-9  
10 For Sale
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-20-15-71-10Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 10 For SaleWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
ACROSS
1 Like many
knock-knock
jokes
6 Fit together, as
some Russiandolls
10 Commando ploy
14 Square
measures
15 Pledge
16 Magazine with
annual StyleAwards
17 Impressionist
who wasfrequently aguest of JohnnyCarson
19 Ink stain20 Quite a while21 Org. with
Wizards andMagic
22 Hard-to-hit pitch23 __ tai24 Greek
gatherings?
27 Cleared (out)
29 Clearasil
shelfmate
30 Be in session
31 Less-filling
brews
32 Phoenix-to-
Albuquerque dir.
33 Movie backdrops34 Statute that
protects sourceconfidentiality injournalism
38 Column on a
decision maker’slist
41 Govt. stipend42 Gem weight46 Copy47 Health club48 Golfer’s booking
50 Marilyn Monroe
and Grace Kelly
53 “Holy cow!”
54 On edge
55 Jackie’s second
56 Founded: Abbr.57 City near Tahoe58 Menu listing
literallyrepresented bythis puzzle’scircles
61 “Dancing With
the Stars” co-host Andrews
62 Tan shade63 Teapot part64 Viewpoint
65 Show sorrow or
joy
66 “101” class,
briefly
DOWN
1 Snickers
ingredient
2 Paper work?3 Exchange need4 Slangy
turndowns
5 Paris fashion
monogram
6 “Pretty good!”7 Frequent, as a
diner
8 Mo. town9 With 25-Down,
what America isacross, to Brits
10 Contradict in
court
11 Court order?12 “This is
awesome!”
13 Loathes18 Memo starter22 Show sorrow or
joy
24 Bass, e.g.25 See 9-Down26 Jump on ice28 Hardy title
teenager
32 Yalie33 Hit35 Road trip
guessing game
36 Morales of
“NYPD Blue”
37 Air Force heroes38 Musical with
nightclub scenes
39 1968 to now, in
pro tennis
40 Fastidious sort43 Drummer’s joke
punctuation
44 Hobbyist45 Sees after47 Muddy digs48 Ripped to shreds49 Author Blyton51 Me.-to-Fla. route52 Core group56 Channel with
numerous sisterchannels
58 Patch, perhaps59 Diamonds,
slangily
60 “Woe __”: 1996
grammar book
By C.C. Burnikel
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/13/1604/13/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, April 13, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-15-10-14
Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Want to Earn Some Extra $$$
Kelly Services is looking for individuals to 
work a 10 day project April 19-28th as couri -
ers/messengers in a hospital setting. Day, 
Evening and Overnight shifts are available 
starting at $10/HR. Apply online at http://qrs.
ly/gt52jb2 or call 352-335-7800 TODAY!   
 4-13-7-14
Camp Counselor. Looking to provide a safe, nurturing, and fun environment for girls? Ideal applicants are available M-F, have large group experience and a willingness to grow in an active environment. Visit www.girlsplace.net to apply.       4-14-16-5-14
GENERAL OFC ASSISTANT.Pleasant home office and atmosphere. 10-15 hrs/week. Schedule flexible. $15 per hour. Required: proficiency in Excel and Word. Also required: serious attitude and reliabil -
ity. Resumes to wooten.leslie@gmail.com.    4-13-16-3-14
Cloud 9 is a busy day spa searching for 
happy, qualified people for our Support Staff 
team. Must be flexible, reliable & available 
at least 20 hrs per wk incl Saturdays.Great 
pay & discounts! Visit cloud9spa.com to ap-ply.   4-19-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
RAIN INTERNATIONAL INVITES
YOU TO EXPERIENCEPOWERFUL SEED NUTRITIONWYNDHAM GARDEN GAINESVILLE
ADDRESS: 2900 SW 13TH ST,
SUNDAY APRIL17TH2016 4PM SHARP
BUSINESS ATTIRE., LIMITED SEATINGFREE TASTING OF THE PRODUCTWHILE SUPPLIES LAST   917-754-2731     
4-15-16-3-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. 
Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive production-based pay
- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!
Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-
169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD student or Veteran student, with several years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking & meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@gmail.com. Background check required, must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/NoticesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Coach Tim Walton and the 
Florida softball team face FSU tonight.Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Graziano named Big East Midﬁ  elder of the Week
Florida lacrosse player Nicole Graziano was named the Big East Midﬁ  elder 
of the Week on Tuesday. Graziano recorded ﬁ  ve points and three draw con-trols in UF's 14-7 win over Georgetown on Saturday. THE UF LACROSSE TEAM FACES THE 
GOLDEN EAGLES AT 2 P .M.
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Following No. 2 Florida lacrosse's 10-9 win 
against a feisty Temple team on April 2, UF 
coach Amanda O’Leary was concerned about her team’s aggression — or, rather, its lack thereof.
The Gators failed to ﬁ  nish the game with 
more draw controls than the opposition for the ninth time this season in the matchup with Temple. 
“We picked and choosed when we wanted 
to be competitive, and we can’t win lacrosse games by doing that,” O’Leary said after the game.
However, last Saturday at Georgetown — 
just one game removed from the win over the Owls — Florida showed just how competitive it could be starting in the ﬁ  rst half. 
By the time it went to the halftime locker 
room with an 8-2 lead, UF was the better team in draw controls (7-4) and ground ball pick-ups (12-8), while also stopping the Hoyas from clearing the ball out of their defensive end ﬁ  ve times in nine attempts.
The second half was more level, as George-
town was outscored by just one goal in the ﬁ  -nal 30 minutes. The Gators ended up taking the win, 14-7.
“They just competed,” O’Leary said Mon-
day. “It was, I think, our competitiveness — going after it — it was boxing out our oppo-nents. We were sending two the ball versus just letting one person out there.”
Florida (12-1, 3-0 Big East) hopes to take its 
competitive mindset into today's 2 p.m. home game against  Marquette (4-8, 1-1 Big East) at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Like the Hoyas, Marquette’s record isn’t 
representative of a team that can give the Gators too many challenges, but the Golden Eagles have shown they can compete with tough opponents.
Marquette’s offense is one O’Leary called 
“aggressive,” as it has scored at least eight goals in all but two games this season — MU averages just 2.17 fewer goals per game than UF.
The Golden Eagles lost by just three goals 
Florida hoping to sustain competitive edge against MarquetteBy Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
JJ Schwarz hadn’t homered in 21 
games — the longest drought of his 
career.
But in the eighth inning against 
Florida State on Tuesday night, the sophomore launched a solo shot to left ﬁ  eld off of FSU relief pitcher Jim 
Voyles, giving Florida a 5-2 lead.
Behind Schwarz’s breakout 3-for-
4 performance, the No. 3 Gators (30-
5) defeated the No. 6 Seminoles 8-2 at Dick Howser Stadium in Tallahas-see.
Florida swept the three-game 
season series against FSU and has won ﬁ  ve-straight matchups with the 
Seminoles dating back to 2015, tying 
a school record.
Schwarz, who was 3-for-15 last 
weekend against Mississippi State, slid down to the cleanup spot before 
Tuesday’s game. The Palm Beach 
Gardens native drove in three runs in the win.
“When JJ’s swinging the bat like 
he did tonight … it’s pretty impres-sive,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said.
But even more impressive to 
O’Sullivan was Florida’s pitching, which surrendered just four runs in 27 innings against the Seminoles 
this season.
“That’s very, very hard to do,” 
he said. “Especially after they just 
came off a weekend in which they won two out of three against a really 
good Louisville team.”
Sophomore Dalton Guthrie 
kicked off the Gators’ scoring in the 
ﬁ  rst inning.
The Sarasota native laced a lead-
off single and swiped second to get into scoring position. After advanc-JJ Schwarz powers Florida over FSU
UF swept the season seriesTORRES TELLS IT
Bryce Harper, one of base-ball’s great 
young stars, 
recently  
wore a hat that said “Make Baseball Fun 
Again,” playing off 
Donald Trump’s campaign slogan of “Make America Great Again.” 
Harper wore the hat when he 
spoke to the media following the Washington Nationals’ 4-3 win over the Atlanta Braves on April 4. This came off the heels of an 
ESPN feature on Harper, which 
quotes him as saying that base-ball is a “tired sport” because “you can’t express yourself.”
Let’s face the reality that he 
brought up. 
Baseball, America’s Pastime, 
is falling behind the other major sports in the world because you 
can’t express yourself. The so-
called “unwritten rules of base-ball” don’t allow you to do so. 
In the ESPN story, Harper 
says that baseball needs more 
Cam Newton types because they 
express themselves on the ﬁ  eld, whether people like it or not. 
Switch over to basketball, 
and take a look at the way Gold-en State guard Stephen Curry expresses himself on the court, often high-ﬁ  ving teammates and yelling at the crowd before his 
three-pointers hit the bottom of the net. It’s unique, 
and it’s fun. 
But when the To-
ronto Blue Jays’ Jose Bautista ﬂ  ipped his bat after hitting a go-ahead three run 
home run in Game 
5 of the American League Division Se-
ries last season, the old guards of baseball lost their minds. 
Guys like Hall of Fame pitcher 
Goose Gossage went on a tirade to the media and called Bau-tista “a disgrace to the game. … 
Throwing his bat and acting like 
a fool, like all those guys in To-ronto.” 
Get real, Goose. It’s your ri-
diculous thought process that 
feeds into Harper’s point: Base-
ball is tired and boring. 
Harper is a part of the new 
culture that’s coming up in base-
ball. He’s 23 years old, and he 
was brought up in the same cul-ture as Curry and Newton.
Is it really all that different just 
because Harper plays baseball, a 
sport that has been around since 
the 1800s? It boggles my mind, and I’m not the only one. 
“I think it’s cool to have a 
guy like (Harper), the face of baseball, present these things to media and outlets and other young baseball players because we want the game to be fun,” UF "Make Baseball Great Again":
New generation of athletes 
bring fresh air to stale sport
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE LAX,  PAGE 15Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz follows through on a swing during Florida's 2-1 loss to Mississippi State on Sunday at 
McKethan Stadium.
14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
Where They Stand
BASEBALL 30-5, 8-4 SEC
• National Rank: No. 3
• Next Up: @ Arkansas. Three game series begins Thursday.
• Who to Watch: Junior 1B Peter Alonso (.344 batting aver-
age, 34 RBIs, 7 home runs)
SOFTBALL 38-3, 12-3 SEC
• National Rank: No. 1
• Next Up: vs. FSU at 7 p.m.
• Who to Watch: Freshman RHP Kelly Barnhill (14-0, 1.38 ERA, 128 strikeouts)
GYMNASTICS 10-2, 5-2 SEC
• National Rank: No. 2
• Next Up: NCAA Championships Semifinals, Friday in Fort 
Worth, Texas
• Who to Watch: Senior Bridget Sloan (No. 1 all-around com-petitor nationally, three perfect 10s)
MEN’S GOLF 
• National Rank: No. 6
• Next Up: SEC Championship, Friday-Sunday in St. Simons, Georgia 
• Who to Watch: Freshman Sam Horsfield (seven top-five finishes, three wins)
WOMEN’S GOLF
• National Rank: No. 8
• Next Up: SEC Championship, Friday-Sunday in Birming-ham, Alabama
• Who to Watch: Junior Karolina Vlckova (six top-10 fin-ishes)
LACROSSE 12-1, 3-0 BIG EAST
• National Rank: No. 2
• Next up: @ Marquette at 2 p.m.
• Who to Watch: Redshirt senior Nicole Graziano (29 goals, 
10 assists, 28 draw controls)
MEN’S TENNIS 13-6, 8-2 SEC
• National Rank: No. 13
• Next Up: vs. No. 20 Kentucky, Friday at 5 p.m.
• Who to Watch: Senior Diego Hidalgo (9-2 in SEC singles, 6-3 in SEC doubles)
WOMEN’S TENNIS 16-2, 11-0 SEC
• National Rank: No. 4
• Next Up: @ No. 3 Georgia, Friday at 5 p.m.
• Who to Watch: Sophomore Josie Kuhlman (7-1 in SEC singles, clinched three team wins in conference play)Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Tim Walton (center) huddles with his team during UF’s 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1 at 
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
The UF softball team has dom-
inated Florida State over the last 
decade. 
Since head coach Tim Walton 
took command of the program in 2006, the Gators are 15-3 against the Seminoles and have won 15 of the last 16 meetings. 
No. 1 Florida (38-3) will look 
to further its success at 7 p.m. in a home matchup against No. 8 
FSU (31-4), the first of two meet-
ings this season between the in-state rivals. 
“Tomorrow’s game against 
Florida State and this weekend’s series with (Louisiana at Lafay-ette) is a good out-of-conference challenge for us,” coach Tim Wal-ton said in a release. 
“Playing Florida State at home 
drew the largest crowd in our school’s history, so I can’t wait to see another great scene tomorrow night.”
After falling to No. 2 last week 
— the first time in a year the Gators didn’t own the nation’s top spot — Florida regained its position atop the polls with a con-vincing sweep of Ole Miss. 
UF outscored the Rebels 18-3, 
hit .314 and slugged eight home runs in the series. 
But Florida State presents a 
greater challenge. 
Like the Gators, the Seminoles 
boast a top-10 pitching staff. FSU’s team ERA of 1.96 is ninth best in the country, while Flori-da’s 0.85 ERA is first. 
Even with the top ERA, FSU 
will test Florida’s pitchers.
The Seminoles rank highly in 
a number of offensive categories, coming in second in on-base per-
centage (.456), fifth in batting av-erage (.352) and sixth in scoring 
(8.11 runs per game). 
On the flip side, Florida ranks 
inside the top 10 in only one of those categories — ninth in on-base percentage (.448) — and has scored two fewer runs per contest (5.98). 
However, Florida has faced a 
more arduous schedule and expe-rienced consistent success against elite competition. 
All three of the Gators’ losses 
this season have come against current top-five teams. 
“FSU is a team and program 
that plays very good defense, has 
great pitching and a dynamic of-
fense,” Walton said. “They pres-ent a lot of challenges all the way around. (Today’s) game should be a very good softball matchup for not only the state of Florida but for everyone.”
The game can be seen on the 
SEC Network. 
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.orgTop-10 Test
No. 1 Florida faces No. 8 FSUing to third on a wild pitch, Guthrie scored on 
a Buddy Reed groundout.
An inning later, Guthrie wreaked more 
havoc.With two outs, the shortstop roped a dou-
ble down the left field line to score sophomore Jeremy Vasquez. 
Vasquez scored from second base after 
reaching on a single and taking second on a 
balk.
Up 2-0, Florida wasn’t done dealing dam-age.
Guthrie flared an RBI single to right field 
with two outs in the fourth inning to score 
freshman Nelson Maldonado from second. Guthrie was thrown out while trying to take 
second, but the run counted, giving UF a 3-0 
lead.Florida State (22-9) didn’t score until the 
bottom of the fourth.
On a full count, Jackson Lueck cranked 
a home run off UF starting pitcher Jackson Kowar to right field to lead off the inning, cut-
ting UF’s lead to 4-1. 
The homer was Kowar’s fourth allowed 
this season, which leads the team.
But Kowar, who struck out seven through 
four innings, settled down and limited the 
damage to just one run.
Schwarz helped plate the Gators’ next 
three runs.
In the fifth, he singled up the middle to 
drive in freshman Deacon Liput. In the eighth, he smashed a solo home run off the score-board in left — his fourth of the year and first since UF’s 8-6 win over Dartmouth on March 
6.
And with two outs in the ninth, Florida 
tacked on three runs after Schwarz’s RBI sin-
gle and bases-loaded walks to freshman Jona-than India and junior Ryan Larson.
Despite allowing a run in the seventh on 
John Sansone’s RBI fielder’s choice, UF’s bull-pen stifled the Seminoles’ offense. Nick Hor-vath, Frank Rubio, Kirby Snead and Brady 
Singer combined for five innings, allowing just 
one run to seal the win.
O’Sullivan said each pitcher made quality 
pitches when they needed to.
“To come up here on a Tuesday with a 
couple freshmen and some guys that may have not thrown as much and hold them to two runs,” he said, “it says a lot about our team.”
Next, the Gators will travel to Fayetteville 
to take on Arkansas for a three-game series starting Thursday at 9 p.m.
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report. 
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org
early in the season to a Michigan 
team that almost took down Florida on Feb. 13, had it not been for a Shayna Pirreca-led comeback that 
gave UF a 12-11 win.
While Marquette has split its first 
two Big East games, it was impres-
sive in both showings.
It beat Villanova on the road 
15-6 in its conference opener, fol-lowed by a 15-13 loss to a Con-necticut team that showcases a 9-2 record this season.
The match against Marquette 
will be the first Wednesday game 
for Florida this season. 
Having just played this week-
end, the Gators had less time to pre-
pare for the Golden Eagles than they normally would.
Wednesday’s game will also give 
UF less time to prepare for Satur-
day’s away game against Villanova, 
but O’Leary said her players prefer having to crunch more preparation into a smaller amount of time.
“They’d rather be out there play-
ing than practicing,” she said. “So, I think this fits into what they like better anyways.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.org
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Shayna Pirreca (center) dodges defenders during Florida's 14-4 loss to Maryland on March 19 at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
LAX,  from pg13MU 's offense has scored eight goals in all but two games
outfielder Buddy Reed said. “We 
can’t do as many things as other sports can like basketball.”
I would like to see Goose come 
to one of Florida’s baseball games and listen to all the walk-up songs that the Gators have. I’d be will-
ing to bet he’d go on a tirade yet 
again. And like his tirade against Batista, it would be totally unjus-tified. 
Harper, on the other hand, 
would enjoy seeing that members of his own generation are having fun while expressing themselves in their own way. 
“We don’t get that media cov-
erage around the world like bas-ketball, football and soccer,” Reed said. “So definitely we should start doing things that make people wanna watch baseball and come 
to the baseball field.”
So give me more bat flips, more 
walk-up songs and more emotion 
from the game of baseball. Then, maybe it won't be so tired and 
boring anymore. 
Luis Torres is the alligatorS-
ports.org editor. You can contact 
him at ltorres@alligator.org and you can follow him on Twitter @LFTorresIII.COLUMN,  from pg 13WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
BASEBALL,  from pg13Guthrie drove in two runs to give the Gators an early lead
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dalton Guthrie prepares to hit the ball during Florida's 2-1 loss to Mississippi State on Sunday at McKethan Stadium.
FOR THE SECOND TIME 
THIS SEASON, FLORIDA 
WILL HAVE A BYE.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The Florida gymnastics team 
is showing no signs of slowing 
down. 
And with the season drawing to 
a close, UF is as spirited as ever — both on the practice mat and at postseason meets. 
In training, coach Jenny Row-
land leads by example. 
“(Rowland) is always in a good 
mood,” senior Bridgette Caquatto said. 
“She’s always encouraging us 
to have great energy and (to lift) up our teammates, which really helps us on hard days.”
It’s a theme that travels with 
them. 
On the competition ﬂ  oor, it’s 
common to see all 13 girls loudly supporting a teammate, lauding 
her after a solid performance or 
lifting her spirits after a fall. 
This weekend’s NCAA National 
Championship, though, presents a 
twist in that formula. 
For just the second time this 
season, Florida’s meet-day sched-
ule includes a bye, a period where gymnasts must return to their 
locker rooms in order to accom-
modate for the number of teams competing. 
For some clubs, this cooldown 
period could spell trouble. Re-moved from the action, team en-ergy could suffer and momentum could shift.
The Gators have found a unique 
way of counteracting it. 
And it is unlike anything their 
head coach had seen in her career. 
“Do you really want to know?” 
Rowland said Monday. “We like to have dance parties.
“... Really, it’s a time to stay 
light, to kinda let things go if you’ve already competed a couple events, and in the last couple min-utes reel them back in and get fo-
cused and ready to go for the next 
event.” 
That focus will prove para-
mount when Florida lines up against a strong semiﬁ  nal ﬁ  eld on Friday afternoon, one that boasts three national top-10 opponents. 
Opening on a bye, the Gators 
will wait until the second rotation to make their championship debut on ﬂ  oor. 
They’ll be ready. “I don’t think we ever have dis-
advantages, to be honest,” sopho-
more Alex McMurtry said. “We get 
the energy going (and) we never get cold.
“Yes, it’s a 15 to 20 minute 
break, but we’re getting each oth-
er pumped up in the locker room, 
and then we’re gonna come out and hit ﬂ  oor like we always do.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016
Gators preparing for 
diﬀ  erent format at NCAAs
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry poses after ﬁ  nishing her uneven bars routine during Florida’s win against North 
Carolina on March 11 in the O’Connell Center.
“She’s always encouraging us 
to have great energy and (to 
lift) up our teammates, which 
really helps us on hard days.”
Bridgette Caquatto
UF gymnastics senior