We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 72 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
UF basketball takes on Duke tonight
Coach Mike White and the Gators are looking 
for their ﬁ  rst win against a ranked opponent this season, pg. 13
Health Science Center Library now 24/7
Students need to ﬁ  ll out a form to use it, pg. 3
Local law enforcement give back for the holidays
GPD and ACSO ofﬁ  cers will play Santa for locals, pg. 5Pining for Christmas
One Gainesville tree farm has sold more than 1,200 trees since opening two weeks ago, pg. 9
SOME CLASSES HAVE AS 
MANY AS 800 STUDENTS.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
A student in UF’s Warrington College of 
Business is petitioning for smaller classes, cit-
ing packed lecture halls and limited space for in-person classes. 
Alexander Orta, 20, started the petition Fri-
day after speaking to about 80 of his peers who were disappointed with their classes’ struc-tures, he said. The UF business management and economics junior said he’d like to see classes with 100 students at most and hands-on learning. 
The online petition at Care2 Petitions has 
14 signatures with a goal of 1,000, as of press time. Orta said he will start marketing it more after ﬁ  nals week. He said he wants to reach the signature amount by the start of Spring se-
mester to bring to the college’s administration.
Orta said he has only had one business 
class that had fewer than 50 students.
“There’s dissatisfaction with the class struc-
ture at the university,” he said. “We’re not re-ally getting quality time with our teachers.”
This semester, Orta’s three undergraduate 
business classes have about 350, 820 and 830 
students. Though all are supposed to be taught on campus, he and his classmates are forced to watch online due to lack of seating, he said. 
Many students can’t attend the in-person 
lectures because seating is limited in Heavener Hall, Orta said. The largest classroom in the 
building only holds 80 seats. In order to get a 
seat, Orta said he had to get to class 20 minutes early at the start of the semester.
Any later, he said, and he’d have to watch 
online.“We have the same access to our teachers 
as an online student,” he said. 
In addition to the petition, Orta created 
a Facebook group, WCBA Students United, where he plans to organize the college’s stu-dents and let others know of the petition. 
John Kraft, the college’s dean, wrote in an 
email that the college offers class sizes based on demand by the students and faculty size. 
He declined to say what the student-faculty 
ratio is and whether the college had plans to reduce it. UF business students start petition for smaller classes in Warrington
SEE PETITION,  PAGE 4Alligator Staff Report
Roughly 15-foot-tall ﬂ  ames 
roared over Satchel’s Pizza on 
Monday night, destroying the iconic Gainesville restaurant’s outdoor seating area and gift shop, known as Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises.
No injuries were reported, as 
the building, located at 1800 NE 23rd Ave., was emptied hours earlier. 
The incident is currently under investigation, said JoAnne Rice, 
the Gainesville Fire Rescue dep-
uty ﬁ  re chief.
GFR ﬁ  rst received calls about 
the ﬁ  re at about 9:22 p.m. from 
several passersby, and ﬁ  reﬁ  ght-
ers put the ﬂ  ames out at about 10 
p.m., Rice said.
By 11 p.m., ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters were 
still cutting through the tin roof of the building and putting out hotspots so the ﬁ  re wouldn’t re-kindle.
Martha Moore, the owner of the Ole Barn bar across the street, 
looked on as the ﬁ  re raged for 
about half an hour.
Her thoughts immediately 
went to Satchel Raye, the owner 
of the restaurant, four years af-
ter a kitchen ﬁ  re caused between 
$150,000 and $200,000 in dam-ages.
“It was horriﬁ  c,” she said. “My 
heart broke for Satchel Raye to start with because they had just got going again, so it really broke my heart. Their employees are friends of ours,” she said.
Danny Lore, 45, the bar man-
ager at Satchel’s, received a call from Raye and rushed over.
“It’s before Christmas, you 
know, it’s my livelihood,” he said, shaking his head.
After 10 years working for 
Raye, Monday night was the sec-ond ﬁ  re he’s experienced.
The ﬁ  rst ﬁ  re broke out in the 
kitchen at Satchel’s on Feb. 28, 
2012, forcing the evacuation of 25 
customers, according to Alligator 
archives. 
That ﬁ  re caused ﬂ  ooding and 
damaged an air-conditioning unit and the roof of the building.
The 2012 ﬁ  re closed the restau-
rant for three and a half months, according to Alligator archives. 
A burned pizza from the ﬁ  rst 
ﬁ  re was enshrined in one of the restaurant’s clear-top tables.
The patio area was marked 
by recycled artwork and quirky seating spaces including a green-house and tree house.
Rice said the recycled mate-
rial may have caused the ﬁ  re to 
spread quicker.
“Something like that will go up 
rather quickly,” she said.  Roaring ﬁ  re erupts at Satchel’s, destroys outdoor seating, gift shop
No one was injured; cause is still unknown
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
A ﬁ  reman stands in the frame of Lightnin’ Salvage, the gift shop at the back of Satchel’s 
Pizza. Gainesville Fire Rescue is investigating the cause of the ﬁ  re that occurred on Monday night. Grace King / Alligator Staff
The tin roof of Lightnin’ Salvage sits in pieces as ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters search the area for hotspots on Monday evening. The main dining room was not touched by the ﬁ  re.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  79° LOW  53°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Light in Darkness
Many people feel threatened 
in the present political climate. Welcoming Gainesville will hold a brief interfaith service at 5 p.m. today in the courtyard at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church and proceed across the street to Gainesville City Hall, where 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
and city commissioners will re-affirm that Gainesville is a “wel-coming city,” where everyone can be secure and be part of a community of neighbors. UF professor Zoharah Simmons, a veteran of the civil rights move-ment in the 1960s, will be the main speaker. Several UF stu-dents will also share their expe-riences.
Residents against death penal-
ty hold annual holiday card signing Today at 6 p.m., Gainesville Citizens for Alternatives to the Death Penalty is having its holi-day card signing event for pris-oners on death row. Those who attend will sign the nearly 400 cards that are mailed. It is also a potluck and time for socializ-ing. Please bring a dish to share. This event will be held at the Emmanuel Mennonite Church, located at 1236 NW 18th Ave. For many on death row, this is the only holiday greeting they receive, and it means so much to them. For more info, email mark1343@juno.com or call 352-378-1690.
‘A Christmas Carol’
The Hippodrome State Theatre presents its most recent rendi-tion of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featuring Scrooge, Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim. The show will run today through Dec. 9 at 10 a.m., Dec. 10 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., Dec. 12 through Dec. 16 at 10 a.m. and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 at 7 p.m. and Dec. 21 and Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of redemption, charity and good-will with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for advance reserva-tions.
The Reitz Union Arts and Crafts 
Center will close for renova-tions Wednesday.After 5 p.m. Wednesday, the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center will temporarily close to begin crafting a better space for your art. The ACC will be work-ing with current users to final-ize existing projects and retrieve art pieces. Please visit union.ufl.edu for updates on the renova-tion and a reopening announce-ment during Spring.
Holiday hip-hop: fitness edition 
with RUB Entertainment
Join Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment for a festive 
take on hip-hop fitness. On 
Wednesday, take a break from 
studying and come out to the 
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on 
the third level of the Reitz Union 
for a special holiday themed 
hip-hop fitness class, which will 
feature some of your favorite 
holiday songs to get you excited 
for the season. Relieve some exam stress and have some fun before the semester comes to an 
end. Please arrive by 6:15 p.m.
Caroling the Ravines, presented 
by Friends of Ravine Gardens 
Inc.
The Florida Department of 
Environmental Protection’s 
Ravine Gardens State Park and the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. are hosting their ninth annu-
al Christmas event — Caroling 
the Ravines — Saturday from 
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Take a musi-cal wagon ride around the lit-up park as you enjoy featured 
performances from talented 
singers, and get your Christmas 
shopping done early by visiting local vendors. Come visit Santa 
Claus or have your photo taken 
with him. A variety of deli-
cious foods, sweets and drinks 
will also be available for pur-chase from local food vendors. 
Admission to the event is $2 per 
person or $5 per vehicle (up to 
eight people), including park 
entry. The event will take place at the Ravine Gardens State Park 
in Palatka, Florida. Proceeds 
from the event will benefit the 
Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. 
Decorated luminary bags with custom names on them will be 
on sale for $5 each. Proceeds 
from the luminaries will benefit 
local projects by the Pilot Club 
of Palatka.
Toastmasters Potluck
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
will host its annual holiday potluck and gift exchange 
Dec. 13. The meeting starts at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology-Nematology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive. Bring food for the potluck. Also, bring a new or gently used gift valued at $5 to $10 and wrapped or concealed in a bag. There will be no meeting Dec. 27. Meetings will resume Jan. 3. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking 
Gators Facebook group page. 
The mission of Talking Gators 
is “to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience in 
which members are empowered 
to develop communication and 
leadership skills, resulting in 
greater self-confidence and per-
sonal growth.”
Apply now for 2017-18 financial 
aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. UF’s “On-Time” 
deadline to receive the results 
of your 2017-2018 FAFSA from 
the federal processor is Dec. 15. Apply well before Dec. 15 to ensure the federal processor 
has time to analyze and send 
the results of your FAFSA to 
UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, 
so apply as early as possible to 
be considered for the most and 
best aid. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov 
or contact your financial aid 
adviser through sfa.ufl.edu/
contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 72
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
EVENTS HAPPENING
THIS WEEK: FINALS RELAXATION WEEKBy Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The second ﬂ  oor of the UF Health Science 
Center Library is now open 24/7 to help stu-
dents get ready for ﬁ  nals. 
Health science students now have access 
to 30 computers, desks and study carrels in the library at any time of day after ﬁ  lling out 
a form and agreeing to the library’s after-
hours policies, said Maggie Ansell, a nursing 
and consumer health liaison librarian at the HSC Library. The second ﬂ  oor can accom-modate more than 50 students for group or 
individual studying.
“You just give your information of who you are, and you agree that you’re not gonna 
have a party or anything like that, or let peo-
ple who haven’t registered into the library,” 
Ansell said. 
Before the extended hours were intro-
duced, the library was open from 7 a.m. to 
midnight. After hosting a trial period where 
the library was kept open 24/5, Ansell said 
the library saw the need, so hours were ex-
tended indeﬁ  nitely.
Jessica Melo, 22, said the extra hours will allow her to study during nighttime, which she prefers. 
“I prefer the HSC Library rather than Mar-
ston or West, since those get overly packed,” the UF microbiology senior said. 
UF pharmacy ﬁ  rst-year student Rebeca 
Corominas said the library environment will 
help her focus for upcoming exams. 
“The new schedule gives HSC students a 
place to study late into the night, which we 
desperately need,” the 22-year-old said.  Health Science Center Library second ﬂ  oor now 24/7 for ﬁ  nals week
Students need to ill out a form to use itCAMPUS
STUDY ROOM HOURS AT
THE REITZ UNION:
• What: Smash Bash
• Where:  Reitz Union North Lawn 
• What:  Free pizza
• Where: Library West
• When: Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
• What:  Food For 
Thought
• Where:  Marston 
Breezeway
• When:  Thursday 
at 11 a.m.• T oday: 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
• Wednesday: 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
• Thursday: 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
• Friday: 7 a.m. to 1 a.m.
Study for that one exam 
you forgot about untill 
you read this.
Write an essay 
about that book 
you never read.Finish that project that 
you lost the rubric for.
Study for that exam for 
the class you never pay 
attention in.Finally turn in the 
project that was 
due at the begining 
of the semester.Take a study 
break or two.
• What:  Free snacks, adult coloring and study myths
• Where:  Library West
• When: T oday at 3:30 p.m.EVENTS HAPPENING
THIS WEEK:
Lauren Rowland/ Alligator Staff
• When:  
Thursday at 11 a.m.4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
“The faculty size is determined 
by the resources we receive from the 
university,” he said.
Orta spoke to Kraft last Spring 
about the issue, but he said the dean didn’t seem sympathetic toward the potential petition at the time.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email that the university was not aware of the petition, but UF is currently trying to get legisla-tive funding for the Spring to pay for 200 more faculty members across UF. This would reduce the faculty-to-student ratio from 21-to-1 to 19-to-1, she said.
“University of Florida is keenly 
focused on lowering the faculty-to-student ratio,” Sikes said.
Michael Shelton, a 21-year-old 
UF accounting senior, said the busi-ness students often pay for tutoring, because they don’t have time with professors. 
Shelton said he understands the 
college may be strained for resourc-es, but breakout sessions with less students should be offered for lec-ture classes. He said he thinks this could improve grades. Shelton said he would sign Orta’s 
petition to see these changes.
“I think if they took these steps 
to make small groups they could be one the best if not the best business school in the country,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
PETITION,  from pg. 1UF is trying to get legislative funding to pay for 200 more faculty membersCourtesy to the Alligator
A performer dances at Market Street Pub and 
Cabaret, which closed last month. Despite no longer having a stable venue, burlesque performers who once frequented Market Street will continue to put on shows around town, adapting to new venues and management.
THE PROJECT IS EXPECTED  
TO TAKE ABOUT TWO YEARS  
TO COMPLETE.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Old Norman Hall’s estimated $30 million 
renovations are expected to start late Spring.
After a timeline and proposed plan is ap-
proved, the building’s most pressing issues 
will be addressed at the start of the two-year 
project, said Glenn Good, the dean of the UF 
College of Education. Those issues include fix-ing leaky windows, outdated electrical work, heating and cooling systems, plumbing, the damaged rooftop and walls and floors con-taining asbestos. 
“We’re restoring the building itself to a 
functional condition and bringing it into the 21st century,” Good said. 
Once he approves an architect’s proposal, 
Good said an official timeline will be released. 
During the first year of the project, $14.1 
million will be used to fund the renovations, with funding approved last Spring by Gov. Rick Scott. The second half of the funding has not yet been raised.
Good said the building could be renovated 
one of two ways. The first plan would require 
completely vacating the building during the 
two-year project, which will allow construc-tion to happen more quickly. The other plan is to complete the renovations in parts so stu-dents can attend class in the building during construction. 
Good said he prefers to vacate old Norman 
completely and relocate students and faculty to the new Norman Hall to allow construction 
to move faster. 
“Our goal is to produce the best building 
possible for the educational professionals of 
the future,” Good said. 
UF science education lecturer Gayle Evans 
said she remembers studying in some of the same classrooms she teaches in today as a graduate student in the 1990s. 
“I remember walking in thinking, ‘Oh 
my gosh, nothing has changed in almost 20 years,’” Evans said. She said one of the class-rooms in which she teaches a three-hour class has only one power outlet for students.
“Even when you’re maintaining really old 
buildings, they’re still not very efficient,” she said. “I think it’s time for something new.”Norman Hall renovations to 
begin during Spring semester              By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a decade of drag and burlesque 
shows, many performers who once-fre -
quented Market Street Pub and Cabaret 
are now scrambling to find a new home — while the venue’s former owner finds his footing.
Market Street, located at 112 SW First 
Ave., closed its doors at the end of No
-
vember after the bills for the downtown night spot became too expensive.
While owner Anthony Grezlik hopes 
to revitalize the spirit of his old venue through a new bar, 6th Street North, 
the ripples of the closing have been felt 
throughout the city. For many, Market Street was a home away from home, a place for late-night dancing free from judgment.
“I like to say the playground’s closed, 
but I’m trying to recreate that a little bit further up north where it’s a little bit less expensive to maintain,” Grezlik said of 
his new bar.
There have not been performances 
at the new bar yet, but Grezlik said he 
hopes to build a stage so future perfor
-
mances can take place. 
“The vibe is still there, the buzz is 
still out there,” Grezlik said. “I think it’s really coming into its own right now. I think Market Street was a big draw to get 
that spark started into a flame.”Performers with the burlesque troupe 
formerly known as Market Street Revue, which often hosted shows at the down
-
town venue, have repackaged them -
selves ahead of their first performance at 
the High Dive on Dec. 17.
The troupe is now known as Sally B.’s 
Dashing Revue, named after the show’s producer, Sally B. Dash.
Future dates and venues have not 
been booked yet. Dash said she has al
-
ready seen some issues with the High Dive, namely their carpeted stage — as a tap dancer, Dash cannot get any sound from that surface. Other dancers cannot properly do ballet on a carpeted stage, 
preventing some acts from performing 
like usual.
“I’m kind of waiting and seeing be
-
fore I make too many decisions for 2017, as far as where I’m going,” Dash said. “And I want to see how it feels at High Dive.”
Dash said she felt disappointed to see 
the venue go but grateful for the time spent there.
 “We got to do a lot there, we really 
got to work on our art and try a lot of stuff and see what show formats worked,” Dash said. “We really had a safe space to try a lot of stuff and grow. I’ll be grateful for that. I’ll always be grateful for that.”
Della Darling, a member of the Mis
-
chievous Madams Burlesque Troupe that often performed at Market Street, said the venue provided unparalleled free
-
dom of expression — something no other venue offered.
“There was a lot of anxiety closing 
that place down, because we put a lot of work into it,” she said.
But the closing won’t likely deter any 
of the troupe’s fans, she said.
“I think we’ve built enough of a repu
-
tation that people will come see us wher -
ever we are,” she said.
Other performers across the city, even 
those not involved with Market Street, came to know the venue through the close-knit nature of the drag and bur
-
lesque communities. 
Kitty LaTush, a burlesque dancer at 
Downtown Drag, a show at Maude’s Side Car Bar, mentions Dash — the momma of local burlesque — and other revue 
producers as being an important part of 
her own burlesque journey.
“They really built up an amazing 
community so that people like me could step in and be a part of it and help col
-
laborate,” LaTush said.
Performers in town see burlesque and 
drag as more than just shows. Nick Ca -
vallaro, better known as Nicki Mirage, works alongside LaTush at Downtown Drag and also sees drag as a positive for the community.
“It’s just a good thing to have, be
-
cause it’s a good form of free expres -
sion,” said Cavallaro, a 23-year-old UF biological engineering master’s student. “People who come to our shows just get to see people just really being them
-Market Street Pub closed, but the burlesque performances go on 
High bills led to the venue’s closure
THEY SAID HE MADE  
SUGGESTIVE COMMENTS WHILE 
THEY WERE SHOPPING. 
By Morgan Rynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ward’s Supermarket asked a wine sales-
man to leave the store after multiple com-
plaints of sexual harassment were made pub-lic on social media Sunday.
Layla Russino, 35, of Micanopy, first wrote 
about the incident on Facebook. She said she was walking down one of the local market’s aisles to buy chocolate when the salesman, who was set up at a table, offered her a bottle of wine. The salesman was employed by an independent contractor, not the supermarket itself.
She said she declined and walked away, 
but he insisted.
“Well, you can come back here and cuddle 
with me,” she recalled him saying.
“I was so freaked out, I couldn’t even look 
him in the face,” she said.Russino spoke to customer service but said 
they didn’t take the incident seriously. That night, she posted a status about the incident on Facebook. 
Soon enough, it began spreading across 
her friends’ and strangers’ news feeds, and she said she found other witnesses of the man’s actions.
“What I found after I posted it was a ton of 
feedback from both men and women who had a negative experience with him,” she said. “Whether it was being sexually inappropriate or making them feel uncomfortable.”
One woman commented on the post say-
ing the man had been inappropriate with her, too, but she said it is hard to maneuver around him.
“I would avoid him but, damn it, always 
in front of the chocolate,” the comment read.
A representative from Ward’s wrote on 
Facebook that the incident was unfortunate and the market asked the man, whose name was not released, to leave the store.
“They absolutely took you seriously, and 
he was immediately packed up and sent on his way,” the post read.Ward’s customers complain 
about salesman commentsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
GPD HAS TAKEN 
STUDENTS OUT TO 
SHOPPING SPREES FOR 
THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
By Caitlin Ostroff                
and Brianna Ellis
Alligator Writers
A swarm of children and police 
ofﬁ  cers will ﬁ  le through Target’s toy 
aisles Friday.
The cops, school resource ofﬁ  cers 
with Gainesville Police, plan to pair up with between 60 and 80 elemen-tary-school students for a $100 holi-day shopping spree, although some ofﬁ  cers will undoubtedly splurge. GPD has taken kids to shop for holi-day gifts for the past ﬁ  ve years. 
“Frequently, the kids will go over 
the $100 allotment, and you’ll see of-ﬁ  cers reaching into their own pocket to help out,” said GPD spokesman 
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
The ﬁ  rst spree will take place Fri-
day, and the second, at a Wal-Mart, 
will take place Dec. 16. The ofﬁ  cers will pick the kids up 
from school, take them to breakfast and then go shopping.
GPD’s annual Heroes and Helpers 
shopping sprees are just some of the ways local law enforcement is em-bracing the holiday spirit.
The department will also partici-
pate in Silver Santa, where ofﬁ  cers 
act as gift-bearing Secret Santas for 
about 40 elderly residents who don’t have family in the area, Tobias said. 
Tobias said he’s working on get-
ting his senior new wheels for his 
wheelchair.
“I had to do a little homework to 
ﬁ  gure out what he was looking for,” 
he said. “We’re constantly out in the 
community, but this is a special time 
of year when we’re able to give a 
little bit more.”
Tobias said ofﬁ  cers volunteer for 
both events, and there’s often a wait list to participate. The email asking 
for ofﬁ  cers to sign up is ﬁ  lled hours 
after it’s sent out. 
Last week, a group of Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce employees took on the role of Santa’s elves, de-livering gifts to 58 children, ranging 
from newborns to teens, who had been removed from neglectful or 
abusive homes.
The employees were provided 
with wish lists from the children, 
which helped them get the perfect 
gift. The number of children helped 
increased by 20 kids from last year. 
The most popular items were elec-tronics, sporting equipment and 
clothing, said Art Forgey, ACSO’s 
public information ofﬁ  cer.
“It’s very rewarding to know 
simple gestures could make a differ-ence,” Forgey said.
Katy Arnold, an executive as-
sistant for the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce, spon-
sored three children who wished for 
gifts ranging from scrapbooking ma-terials to basketballs.
“My husband and I fostered 
two children and have been on the 
receiving end of getting gifts from 
anonymous donors,” Arnold said. 
“We decided to give back.”
Around the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce, em-ployees will take part in a door-
decorating contest, a chili cook-off 
and a food drive, all of which aim to get ACSO in the giving spirit, Forgey said.
“We are a very giving commu-
nity,” he said. 
 Local law enforcement gives back during holiday season
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Elmere Croushore left his Jeep 
alone for a few moments Sun-day as he grabbed a drink from a Gainesville gas station.
When he returned, the car was 
gone, stolen by a 19-year-old at about 10 p.m. outside Shell Gas Station’s Food Mart, located at 6900 W. Newberry Road, accord-ing to a police report.
Tarik Jaquan Simmons, a 
Gainesville resident, was eventu-
ally caught by Alachua County 
deputies. Multiple deputies and 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers found 
the car near the Knights Inn, locat-
ed at 2820 NW 13th St., by track-
ing Croushore’s phone, which he 
left inside, according to the report.A witness told GPD ofﬁ  cers they 
saw three or four men unloading items from a car, and when law enforcement arrived on the scene, 
Simmons ﬂ  ed from the Jeep, which 
then crashed into a GPD car, ac-cording to the report. 
Simmons and accomplice Alif 
Tyshane Wiley, 19, then ran away and entered a Checkers drive-thru lane, pretending to be customers, according to the report.
The Knights Inn is plagued with 
high rates of crimes, such as prosti-tution and drug sales, according to the report.
Deputies arrested Wiley on a charge of resisting without vio-lence and took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he remains, as 
of press time, in lieu of a $50,000 
bond. 
They arrested Simmons on 
charges of grand theft auto and resisting without violence and took him to the jail where he re-mains, as of press time, in lieu of a $200,000 bond.
@ceostroﬀ  
costroff@alligator.org  ACSO: Man stole car, crashed into cop car, went to Checkers
Wiley
Courtesy to the Alligator
In Gainesville, police ofﬁ  cers and sheriff’s deputies are embracing the holiday season by donating their time — and toys — to the community. On Friday, Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers will take elementary-school children on a shopping spree to T arget as a part of its annual Heroes and Helpers event. Last week, the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce handed out gifts to children who had been taken from abusive or neglectful homes.
Simmons
He, another man pretended to be customersThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Past, future and 
Simpsonwave
As college students of the 21st century, we’re stuck in 
that weird place between a longing for nostalgia and anticipation of tomorrow’s technology via futurism. Per-haps one of the most hysterical and disturbingly beauti-ful products of this emotionally grappling crossroad is 
Simpsonwave.
If you’re near a glowing rectangle, do yourself a favor. Go on 
Youtube and enter “Simpsonwave” in the search bar, watch a video or two and then join us back here. Don’t worry, we’ll wait.
There’s no confusion to be found here. Simpsonwave is sim-
ple: take scenes from the golden age of “The Simpsons” (Seasons 1-7), throw a wavy dream ﬁ  lter and some of those funny black and white lines you get with VHS. Then, add some syncopated electronic music known ofﬁ  cially as vaporwave.
The little-known microgenre vaporwave highlights our gen-
eration: It relies entirely on sounds and a musical method that evokes nostalgic bliss but synthesizes these sounds in a way that anticipates electronic futurism. Tracks often include incredibly twisted and distorted samples of pop songs from the ‘80s and ‘90s and use Window’s XP sound effects. This, alongside the inherent nostalgia of “The Simpsons,” creates a double dose of nostalgia. Moreover, it’s relatable to a diverse crowd. Those born in the ‘80s, ‘90s and early ‘00s appreciate the satirical stylings of 
America’s favorite yellow family. Surrounding them in a blanket 
of ethereal electronica creates the perfect atmosphere for nos-talgia.
But what makes it futuristic apart from its mere otherworldly 
dimension? What about this surreal endeavor into spooﬁ  ng the retro, the vintage, the old-school cool is so noteworthy? What elevates this genre from hipster elevator music to actually pos-sessing cultural capital?
The answer lies in the genre’s unreliability. It creates memo-
ries of chuckle-worthy events you can recall vividly but know never happened in the ﬁ  rst place. By blending the past into the future, it takes advantage of and manipulates our senses. Unsur-prisingly, there’s actual commentary to be found here. By taking the adorably tacky pop songs of our past and absolutely shoving them in this avant-garde ﬁ  lter, vaporwave exposes the absurd concept of manufactured, and consequently “commercialized/factory produced,” music. It reveals how truly tacky the pop songs of our youth were, and by applying modern technological 
sounds, turns the mirror back to our music senses today. After 
listening to a vaporwave song, listening to old Backstreet Boys doesn’t feel cheerfully ironic anymore; it feels fake, vile and re-minds us of low-quality feed for cattle. You know, like canned spray cheese.
Adding the narrow “The Simpsons” aesthetic to the mix 
makes it appeal to a wide multigenerational audience. In philos-ophy, contextualism refers to a set of views that emphasize un-derstanding the environment (context) in which actions, claims 
and behaviors occur and how intense of a role that environment 
played in said action. Creating this speciﬁ  c but universal back-drop to subliminally show the viewer VHS static and codeine purple visual ﬁ  lters forces us to re-evaluate our true understand-ing of electronic media. It demands that its viewers confront the true unfamiliarity we have with technology. The seemingly magical nature of popping a USB drive into your computer and knowing that in some logical but distant way, you’ll be able to access it. Here, vaporwave and Simpsonwave speciﬁ  cally tran-
scends time and place, because it’s reluctant to accept what capi-
talist consumer culture has done to concepts like time and space, freezing them in interludes of animated mass-entertainment and musical trends. The ideas behind UF’s Strategic Development Plan
In the aftermath of many months of planning, I’m both exhausted and exhilarated.
I’ve been honored to help lead an intensive 
nine-month strategic development planning process that began in February and recently 
“concluded” with an endorsement by UF’s Board of Trustees during the course of its meeting Thurs-day. This is really not the conclusion so much as the beginning of even more exciting work to be done — the process of implementing the plan over the next several decades. 
Some of you may have read about the plan, but I’m 
guessing many of you haven’t. My feelings won’t be hurt. In administration speak, the plan will prepare UF and the 
surrounding community for the future, identifying optimal 
initiatives related to growth, intensity/density, economic vi-tality and livability — a framework for the university and its host community to come together to achieve preeminence.
In simpler terms, it’s a plan to identify what UF’s campus 
should look like in 40 to 50 years and how the university’s important relationship with Gainesville and Alachua County can be transformed.
So what’s in the plan?  We asked our Boston-based con-
sultants — the ﬁ  rms of Elkus Manfredi Architects and Du-montJanks — to come up with big ideas to lead our planning efforts. Those ideas can be found in four broad initiatives: 
The New American City: UF has some of the country’s 
brightest students and top researchers on its campus. With the help of the city, we can turn Gainesville into a “Smart City Lab” that connects UF’s resources with community chal-lenges to seek real solutions. As a city that solves its own problems and offers solutions for the rest of the country, we 
can forge a model that other towns and universities will emu-
late.
Proximity: UF is fortunate to have a beautiful, 2,000-
acre campus to call home. But bigger is not always better. To enhance collaboration and innovation, the plan calls for refocusing UF’s academic core to the eastern third of cam-pus. Concentrating scholars and students back to the cam-pus’ historic core will not only encourage interaction and the exchange of ideas but will also place UF’s core closer to its strong medical center to the south and Gainesville’s bustling downtown to the east.
Strong Neighborhoods: UF and Gainesville 
can’t thrive without the strong neighborhoods 
that make us who we are. Porters Community, 
College Park, University Heights, Golfview and the Duckpond neighborhood are just a few of UF’s neighbors we want to support by preserving their character and helping to make them stronger. 
Stewardship: UF’s mission as a land-grant uni-
versity includes being a good steward of the environment on and around campus. The plan recommends studying open space, landscaping, street and utility networks and storm-
water infrastructure. It also recommends partnering with the 
city on large-scale open spaces, bike and pedestrian trails and stream-corridor restoration to advance the region’s eco-logical health and outdoor amenities. 
In practical terms, what could the plan mean to you and 
future generations of Gators? You may see a campus com-prising buildings that are more densely situated, allowing for an easier walk between classes and more opportunities to run into one of your professors as a result. You might see 
yourself working on a research project with a faculty mem-
ber, attempting to solve a stubborn problem within one of Gainesville’s historic neighborhoods. Meanwhile, you could be using automated transportation to carry you to dinner downtown where a UF program helped your food move from farm to table. These are very real possibilities, as the plan takes all of these scenarios into account. 
In closing, I’m reminded of something UF President Kent 
Fuchs said in his Sept. 14 Alligator column: “With persis-
tence and patience, UF will be the university . . . that the 
world looks to for leadership.” This plan calls for persistence, patience and leadership — in no small measure.
I hope you’ll be sufﬁ  ciently interested to learn more about 
the plan and to comment on it at uf.dumontjanks.com. Go Gators — now and for years to come.
Charlie Lane is the senior vice president and chief 
operating ofﬁ  cer of UF.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Charlie Lane
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I don’t recall how or why I started watch-
ing “Black Mirror” and “Westworld;” only that I began both in an attempt 
to distract myself from ﬁ  nals week and 
was immediately hooked. Much like 
my introduction to “Game of Thrones” a few years ago, as soon as I began binging 
these shows, I found that everyone around 
me was talking about them, obsessing over fan theories and expressing the discomfort these ﬁ  ctional worlds instilled in them. Warning: spoilers ahead. 
I don’t consider myself an avid science-
ﬁ  ction fan, nor would anyone else allow me to assume the title considering my tre-mendous lack of knowledge regarding sci-ﬁ   
canon (or in other words, that I’ve never 
seen a “Star Wars” movie). High-budget computer-generated imagery doesn’t particularly thrill me, and often I feel as though it gets in the way of a nuanced 
narrative. Yet, despite “Black Mirror” and 
“Westworld” being exactly the type of shows I stay away from, they have both managed to captivate me and maintain a large mainstream audience de-spite their overwhelmingly bleak and paranoid tone.
Science ﬁ  ction is often thought 
of as the genre of escapism when, in reality it more often serves as a reﬂ  ection of current anxieties 
and ideologies. Pretending one is 
speaking about the distant future makes addressing the present that much easier, yet it’s appar-ent that “Black Mirror” and “Westworld” 
have largely abandoned this attempt at di-
version. 
Episodes of “Black Mirror” have criti-
cisms that are manifold and blatant: “Nose-
dive” presents a grim view of social media 
ratings, “Hated in the Nation” depicts pub-lic shaming gone homicidal and “The Wal-do Moment” presents an animated bear’s political campaign that’s nearly successful 
due to his no bull---- approach. They’re ab-
surd scenarios that are just realistic enough to propel the viewer into a sort of uncanny valley, and discomfort undeniably ensues. Meanwhile, “Westworld” 
plays on fears of artiﬁ  cial intel-ligence and singularity in a world 
where robots, or hosts as they’re 
called in the show, are indistin-guishable from their human cre-ators as they follow programmed 
narratives within a high-tech 
theme park called, you guessed it, “Westworld.” The show’s in-evitable robot coup addresses 
modern fears in a world where automation 
and technology touch nearly every facet 
of our lives. And while blurring the lines that separate hosts from humans makes for some great (and obvious) plot twists, 
it also brings to light some inconsistencies 
regarding our own notions of humanity.
Perhaps the shows’ most fascinating 
achievement is their abilities to maintain a mainstream audience despite the feelings 
of existential dread they so often induce. 
In fact, some of the most vocal criticisms about “Westworld” and “Black Mirror” focus on how unﬂ  inchingly dark they are. Vulture’s Jackson McHenry wasn’t exactly reaching when he called “Westworld” a “bleak-fest,” and “Black Mirror” has be-
come practically synonymous with its utter 
lack of happy endings. Yet, the shows’ suc-cesses indicate that perhaps many of us no longer need, or want, that particular type 
of escapism.
Or perhaps it’s that in an era consumed 
by political, ecological and technological 
anxieties, reality truly becomes stranger than ﬁ  ction. And though the television 
shows often serve as cautionary tales, indi-
cating the likely results of society’s current trajectory, they offer little in the way of possible solutions. Yet, that was never their 
responsibility in the ﬁ  rst place. The easily 
digestible science ﬁ  ction tales that present the future as a world of convenience and leisure have quickly been replaced by im-ages of a new world even more lost than 
the present one. Perhaps ignorance isn’t 
bliss after all. 
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears every Tuesday.
‘Westworld’ and ‘Black Mirror’: when the real world mirrors science ﬁ  ctionColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
For many students, a typical walk to class consists of a sigh of remorse and the comfort of sweet melodies seep-
ing through some Apple headphones. 
With eyes locked on the pavement 
below, students make their walk in straight lines, ﬁ  rm in their mission to avoid confron-
tation by any means possible.
What could be a very beautiful transition 
between two areas on campus has turned 
into a robotic march of solitude. Eyes that are too transﬁ  xed on tiny digital screens ig-
nore the sights and sounds of an incredibly 
environmental university.
UF offers more than 10 natural areas on 
campus — most of which lie next to typi-
cal routes taken by students. These areas, 
which can easily go unnoticed while on a distracted stroll through campus, offer much-needed tranquility from an always-energetic Student Body.From the Jennings Creek on 
the East side of campus to the Law School Woods bordering Vil-
lage Drive, UF’s natural areas of-
fer a quiet escape for student’s to free their busy minds. It is with-out question these natural areas 
are currently underused and un-
derappreciated.
A group of students in the UF 
Global Change Ecology and Sustainability course recently conducted a survey about 
students’ feelings toward campus natural 
areas. While over 94 percent of the 53 sur-veyed students said they felt relaxed while in a natural area, 71 percent of the same 
sample admitted they rarely take time to 
visit them.
Additionally, the study showed an over-
whelming disapproval toward the urban development of campus natural areas. Eighty-seven percent of the stu-dents surveyed said they have a negative attitude toward the con-
version of these ecological spaces 
into new infrastructure.
Until recently, a forest bor-
dered the western side of Hume 
Hall on Museum Road. But with 
the latest development of a new Greek housing project, another 
campus natural area has fallen to the expan-sion of university infrastructure. With the 
recent addition, it seems natural areas on 
campus are by no means permanent.
It is imperative that students devote a 
fraction of their week, if not a fraction of 
their day, to the vast natural spaces around 
them. Their mental health and vitality can only beneﬁ  t from these calm and refreshing areas.
UF is, by nature, “committed to devel-oping and maintaining an environment that enriches health and wellbeing of University and surrounding community,” according 
to UF Planning, Design and Construction. 
These natural areas are treasured on a na-tional scale, and students should aim to visit them on a frequent basis.
Perhaps once or twice a week, consider 
taking the scenic route to class. Pass by a campus creek or a covered woodland, and enjoy all of the natural spaces UF has to of-fer.
Grab a friend or two and take a hike 
through the Bartram-Carr Woods or sit to-gether and chat by the Gator Pond. Who knows? In 10 years there may be no natural 
spaces left to be enjoyed. Make it your goal 
to turn an everyday walk on campus into an uplifting ecological experience.
Max Chesnes is an Alligator staff photog-
rapher.
Drop your phone; enjoy the greenery across UF's campus while you still canGuest Column
Max Chesnes
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
Staci Nadeau, 37, a Charles Perry Partners Inc. employee, smiles as she looks at the Christmas trees, to 
buy one for her house on Monday evening.
Dwayne Burch, 26, holds a Christmas tree after tying it up to put it on the customer’s car. Burch works every day at the Severt Brothers Tree Farm on Butler Plaza West during the holiday season.
Dozens of trees stand in the Severt Brothers Tree Farm on Butler Plaza West to be sold during the Christmas season. More than 1,200 of the trees brought from North Carolina have been sold.
PINING FOR CHRISTMAS
Isabel Bonnet , Alligator Staff Photographer
The Severt Brothers Tree Farm on Butler Plaza West has sold 
more than 1,200 Christmas trees since it opened on the plaza on Nov. 21. For 40 years, they have brought trees, which stay alive until February, from North Carolina to Florida for the holiday. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-5-16-11-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com      12-6-16-5-2
WHAT A FIND FOR SPRING SEMESTER! 2/2, 3rd floor condo in Campus Edge. Vaulted ceilings, pool view, on campus. Amazing lo-cation. $1000/mo. Spring semester only. Call Aimee 352-514-0482    1-4-16-5-2
HOUSES available soon for August 2017. Walk or bike to campus. Visit www.gaines -
villequalityrentalhouses.com. Text or call 352-339-2342 if you have any questions.    1-6-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. 
Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet 
home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 
850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-16-10-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Rodent
Templeton in
“Charlotte’sWeb,” for one
4 Provide with more
than enough
11 Miner’s target
14 Flightless bird15 Memorable
Greek shippingmagnate
16 Aggravate17 Bake sale
confections
made with rootveggies
19 Finish off
20 Chance for a hit
21 Asia’s __ Darya
river
22 Cornstarch brand
in a yellow-and-
blue container
23 Chair or bench24 Shine-minimizing
makeup layer
27 Harmonious29 Scare30 Soon-to-be grads.31 Vanity cases?33 Plagues34 Wireless
networkingprotocol
36 Degenerate, like
Agnew’s snobs
39 Apt name for a
Dalmatian
40 Mil. academy43 Black, in
Bordeaux
44 Like the flame at
ArlingtonNationalCemetery
46 Pop’s pop50 Vacation site you
might sail to
51 Painter Magritte
52 Managed care
gp.
53 Follow, as advice54 “Fear the
Walking Dead”
network
55 Driver’s alert
about an infant,and a hint towhat canprecede bothwords of 17-, 24-, 34- and 46-Across
58 Peace symbol
59 Central Texas city60 Bestow, to Burns61 Chemical suffix
with benz-
62 Cut at an angle
63 Always, to Poe
DOWN
1 Finds new
players for
2 One who plays
without pay
3 Wrapped
headdresses
4 Chimney residue
5 Colony insect
6 Tic-toe filler
7 Father of Jacob
and Esau
8 Words on a
volunteer’s badge
9 Highway
headache
10 Half a figure eight
11 Late in arriving12 Substance used
for chemicalanalysis
13 Obtains via
coercion, asmoney
18 Part of APR
22 Knee-deep (in)24 Bach work
25 Therapeutic plant
26 Prince Siegfried’s
beloved, in
“Swan Lake”28 Like pool tables
32 Ave. crossers33 Swag34 Suisse capital35 Newspaper page
with views
36 Personalize at
the jeweler’s
37 Work site
supervisors
38 Bride-to-be40 Performing in a
theater
41 Dieter’s unit42 Thin45 Man who “wore a
diamond,” in“Copacabana”
47 Abu __
48 Realm of
influence
49 Holmes’ 
creator
53 Still sleeping
55 “Kapow!”
56 “__ the land of
the free ... ”
57 SSW’s opposite
By Katherine Stears©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/06/1612/06/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, December 6, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, 
is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14
Part-time, hourly - Garden upgrade & maintenance. Will train. Near UF.
Call 352-505-5254      12-7-5-14
Want to make a positive impact in the lives of girls in this community? Visit GirlsPlace.net/employment to apply. Hiring for multiple positions.      12-7-16-5-14
We are seeking for graphic designers that want to do something different from the or-dinary. What we want is talent, passion, mo-tivation and a solution-oriented approach. Students or fresh graduated. Our studio: www.dibari-id.com If you are interested please contact us at: carnovali@dibari-id.com     12-7-16-3-14
We are seeking for creative copywriters who are looking for a chance to set their creativ-ity free. We want passion, motivation and a extraordinary talent in creative writing. Students or fresh graduated. Our design stu-dio: www.dibari-id.com Contact: carnovali@dibari-id.com    12-7-16-3-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Justin Leon and the UF men's 
basketball team take on No. 5 Duke tonight, but there's plenty of other action to watch over the break. For a full list of UF sporting events, see pg. 16Final Alligator Picks Column results
After a hard-fought semester of picking eight college football games every 
weekend, the alligatorSports picks column is over. Finishing in first place was alligatorSports editor Ian Cohen, while alligatorSports writer Jordan McPherson and the Orlando Sentinel's Edgar Thompson finished tied for last. MIKE WHITE'S FATHER 
IS DUKE'S DIRECTOR OF 
ATHLETICS.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
He was just a toddler at the 
time, but that didn’t stop Mike 
White from taking it to his father, 
Kevin, on the basketball court.
“(I) might have been 3 years 
old,” Mike White said on Mon-
day. “Dad, he wasn’t a hooper.”
Now, many years removed 
from battling it out on a driveway hoop, the father and son will face off once again.
White, now in his second 
year as Florida’s head basketball coach, will take his No. 21-ranked Gators (7-1) to New York City to 
face No. 5 Duke (8-1) under the 
bright lights of Madison Square Garden tonight at 9.
White’s father took over as 
Duke’s director of athletics in 2008 after former AD Joe Alleva accepted the same position at 
LSU. 
But the younger White said 
he’s not concerned with the pres-
sure of facing his father — or Duke’s College Basketball Hall of Fame coach Mike Krzyzewski.
“I promise you … it’s not 
about that,” White said. “There’s so many challenges ahead with facing a program like Duke that if you’re thinking about the wrong 
things, you give yourselves zero 
chances at success.” 
Those challenges?Luke Kennard. Frank Jackson. 
Amile Jefferson. And, most im-
portantly, wrapped in a 6-foot-5, 202-pound package of pure ath-
leticism and offensive skill, junior shooting guard Grayson Allen.
Florida’s defense will be tasked with slowing down a No. 21-ranked scoring offense that boasts at least four players who 
average double-digit scoring.Kennard leads the Blue Dev-
ils with 19.4 points per game, 
and Allen is right behind at 17.1 
points per game.Jefferson has been Duke’s most 
versatile player. The 6-foot-9 for-
ward is averaging 14.7 points, 9.8 
No. 21 Florida vs. No. 5 Duke will be family reunion
The Associated Press
Coach Mike White calls out instructions to his team during Florida's 77-72 loss to Gonzaga on Nov. 25 in Orlando.
FOOTBALL ROUNDTABLE
By Alligator Staff
There you have it, Gators fans.
Save for an Outback Bowl match-
up against Iowa next month, the 2016 season is in the books.
There were highs and lows, high-
light plays and embarrassing flops, spectacular moments and spectacu-lar letdowns. Now, it’s time to reflect. What 
was the most memorable moment from the 2016 season?
Football writers Patrick Pinak, 
Ian Cohen, Jordan McPherson and Ethan Bauer debate.
Pinak: The goal-line standYou remember it. With the game, bragging rights and an SEC East title coming down to one play, Florida’s defense pounced on Derrius Guice at the goal line to stop LSU short in Death Valley. 
One yank of Guice from safety 
Marcell Harris and another from de-fensive end Jordan Sherit, and the celebration was on. 
Jalen Tabor performed fake snow angels in the end zone. 
Antonio Callaway planted a 
Florida flag in the grass at Tiger Sta-dium. 
And the rest of the Gators hugged 
each other and pranced around like children on Christmas morning. 
The 2016 season won’t be re-
membered for the massacre that occurred in Atlanta this past week-end or for whatever happens in the Outback Bowl. 
Instead, it’ll be the play that 
crowned UF SEC East champions for a second-straight year and put to rest any claims of being scared to relocate the game to Baton Rouge because of Hurricane Matthew. 
It will be immortalized in Florida 
history. 
While there were no shortage of 
quotes following the game, Quincy 
What was the most memorable moment of the 2016 season? 
UF's last-second stand at LSU leads the nomineesSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
rebounds and two blocks per 
game in his senior season.
“I’m not gonna lie. Our guys 
are gonna be so jacked up,” 
White said. “I’d be very, very 
surprised if we don’t come out and play really, really hard and be excited about the challenge and the opportunity.”
For UF guard Canyon Barry, 
this opportunity represents the chance to take part in a family legacy.
Barry’s father, NBA Hall-of-
Famer Rick Barry, played in the Garden multiple times during his career and once dropped 57 points in the historic arena 
against the Knicks during his 
rookie season.
“The key is just to stay 
locked in,” the younger Barry 
said. “Obviously Duke has a 
lot of scoring potential with the great players they have, so de-fense is going to be a big key for us.”In addition to stopping a po-
tent Duke offense, the Gators 
will have to figure out how to 
score themselves. 
Although Florida is averag-
ing a respectable 77 points per 
game, the Gators are shooting 
44 percent from the field and just 31.5 percent from three. 
Barry added that, under 
the conditions of playing in a world-famous arena against one 
of history’s greatest college bas-
ketball programs, maintaining composure will be essential. 
“We know that it’s a big-
ger game. It’s Madison Square Garden. It’s Duke,” he said. “I think that’s going to be one of the challenges. 
“How well we can regulate 
that excitement and energy lev-el and play within ourselves … and just execute the gameplan 
that coach White and the staff 
has laid out.”
 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg.13Florida is averaging 77 
points per game this seasonWilson may have summed up the 
contest best. The cornerback ignit-ed a pre-game scuffle with an LSU player to add even more hype.
“This wasn’t a regular game,” 
Wilson said. “They tested our man-hood and we responded.”
And for the junior who will like-
ly declare for the NFL Draft, there was no question it was his favorite win as a Gator — a sentiment many of his teammates likely agree with.
“Yeah,” he said. “You can say 
that.”
Cohen: The most surprising 
series of the season
For five minutes and nine sec-
onds, there was hope.
Florida got the ball first to start 
the SEC Championship Game against No. 1 Alabama on Saturday, 
concocting a 10-play, 64-yard drive 
that made everyone in the stadium 
question what the hell they were watching. 
Florida converted three third 
downs, quarterback Austin Apple-
by completed 6-of-7 passes and the 
Crimson Tide’s secondary looked lost against the Gators, the nation’s 110th-ranked scoring offense.
The drive ended in a touchdown, 
the first one Alabama had given up since Oct. 22, and for a brief period of time in Atlanta, no one had an answer. The 24-point favorite with future NFL players riddled across its roster was losing to No. 15 Florida.
Up was down.Down was up.A pig flew across the field just 
beneath the roof of the Georgia 
Dome. 
The Gators were going to win. 
The Gators were going to unseat 
the Crimson Tide. The Gators were 
going to win the next 12 national 
championships, Jim McElwain 
would be inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in the year 2035 and Alabama coach Nick Sa-ban’s career would begin a down-
ward spiral that would leave him 
pleading at McElwain’s feet, beg-
ging for a position as a UF waterboy 
within five years.
And then Austin Appleby hap-
pened. 
He threw a pick on UF's next 
drive, and Alabama eventually destroyed the Gators’ hopes and dreams with a 38-point win.
No hall of fame for McElwain.But still, Gators fans, how eu-
phoric did those five minutes and nine seconds feel?
McPherson: Appleby to Cleve-
land
When Austin Appleby missed 
his first deep-pass attempt to Tyrie 
Cleveland against LSU, the fresh-
man receiver walked up to his quar-
terback on the sideline.
“This guy cannot hang with 
me,” Cleveland told him.
So in the third quarter, when 
Appleby took the snap from center T.J. McCoy and dropped five steps 
into his own end zone, he knew 
where to go. 
Appleby looked to his right 
before firing a pass downfield 
to Cleveland, who hauled in the 
catch about 30 yards from the line 
of scrimmage, shook off defensive 
back Donte Jackson and was off to 
the races.
One play, 98 yards, touchdown.
The play gave the Gators a 10-7 
lead in the third quarter and put a raucous Death Valley crowd of 
102,043 into a deathly silence.
It was a rare explosive play from 
Florida’s offense, but it was just 
enough to spark the Gators in their 
16-10 win over the Tigers to clinch 
the SEC East.
It’s a play that went down in the 
record books, too.
The catch-and-run was the lon-
gest play from scrimmage in Tiger Stadium history and the second-longest passing touchdown in Flor-ida history.
The first? A 99-yard pass from 
Cris Collinsworth — yes, the former 
UF receiver and current sportscast-
er — to Derrick Gaffney.
“That’s pretty wild,” Appleby 
said.
Bauer: Title bound at Tennes-
see 
For one half of football, Florida 
looked poised to make an appear-ance in the College Football Playoff. 
Filling in for the injured Luke Del 
Rio, quarterback Austin Appleby was slinging the ball up and down 
the field against the No. 14 Tennes-
see Volunteers on Sept. 24, carrying 
a 21-3 lead into halftime. The unde-
feated No. 19 Gators looked domi-
nant, and it felt extra sweet given 
the opponent. 
Earlier in the week, UF corner-
back Quincy Wilson had taunted Tennessee, which hadn’t beaten the 
Gators in 11 years. 
He asked if “a duck (Tennes-
see) could pull a truck (Florida),” to which the answer was, suppos-
edly, no. 
It certainly looked that way in 
the first half. 
But as was well documented af-
ter the game, the Gators imploded in the second half, conceding five 
touchdowns to the frenzied Volun-
teers. 
Still, for that first half, Florida 
fans were ecstatic. Not only was 
their team stomping a rival, but 
the Gators were undefeated head-
ing into another road contest with 
Vanderbilt. 
It may not have the dramatics of 
a goal-line stand or the theatrics of a 
98-yard touchdown pass to win the 
SEC East, but it did have the bonus of having everything to play for. 
Although, let’s be real, I picked 
this because the two LSU moments 
were already taken.ROUNDTABLE,  from pg.13UF scored on its first drive against 'Bama 
The Associated Press 
Canyon Barry, right, reaches for the basketball as Kevarrius 
Hayes, middle, looks on during Florida's 81-76 win over Seton Hall on Nov. 24 in Orlando. Barry said it will be important for the Gators to keep their composure when they play Duke in Madison Square Garden tonight.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Austin Appleby looks to pass during Florida's loss to Alabama in the SEC Championship on Saturday in Atlanta. Appleby completed 6 of his 7 passes on UF's first drive but later threw three interceptions.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2016
COMING UP IN 
UF SPORTS
TODAY
• Men’s basketball vs. Duke @ Madison Square 
Garden, 9 p.m. on ESPN
THURSDAY
• Women’s basketball @ Florida State, 6 p.m. on ACC Network Extra
SUNDAY
• Men’s basketball @ Florida State, 4 p.m. on ESPNU
• Women’s basketball vs. North Carolina A&T, 3 p.m. 
on SEC Network+
DEC. 17
• Men’s basketball vs. Charlotte in Sunrise, 4 p.m. on 
Fox Sports 2/Fox Sports Sun
DEC. 20
• Women’s basketball vs. Indiana in Winter Park, 7:45 p.m.
DEC. 21
• Women’s basketball vs. Florida A&M in Winter Park, 5:30 p.m.
• Men’s basketball vs. Little Rock, 7 p.m. on SEC Network
The Associated Press
Justin Leon screams in celebration during Florida's loss to Gonzaga on Nov. 25 in Orlando. Leon and 
the Gators take on Duke in Madison Square Garden at 9 p.m. on ESPN.
