We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 90 THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
Florida tennis earns impressive 
season-opening win over Bulls
UF sophomore Danilina won her doubles 
and singles matches, pg. 18
SG taking questions for executive 
candidates for debate
The debate is Feb. 8 at the University Auditorium, pg. 5
UF club promotes organ donation
The club will start registering organ donors next week, pg. 8Check out the Avenue 
Mediocre advice, Q & A with Rooster 
T eeth, UF video game party, local cartoonist and more pgs. 9 - 13
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
TEETHING TROUBLES
Sophie, a 4-month-old German Shepherd mix, nibbles on the hand of Jenna Glick, a 20-year-old UF 
junior, while out for a walk on Turlington Plaza on Wednesday.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Hunter Hayes, a Grammy-nominated coun-
try singer-songwriter, will perform at UF.
Cassadee Pope, the winner of season three 
of “The Voice,” will open for Hayes on March 
16. The event, which is free for students, starts 
at 7:30 p.m. at the Stephen C. O’Connell Cen-
ter. The two singers will be paid a combined $101,500, said Bobby Finigan, the chairman of Student Government Productions. Finigan said he wanted UF to have a diverse group of per-formers and wanted to bring a country singer to UF.
“Every year we want to bring different 
genres,” Finigan said. “Between the Gainesville community and UF students, country is very popular, and we feel Hunter and Cassadee are great country performers.”
Rachel Cook, a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore, said 
she’s excited to see the artists perform. “It’s really cool that I get to go with all my 
friends,” the 20-year-old said.
Students with their Gator 1 Cards can re-
ceive up to four free tickets starting at 10 a.m. 
Tuesday at the O’Connell Center box ofﬁ  ce. 
The general public can buy tickets for $15 from the box ofﬁ  ce or online starting at noon Feb. 4. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Hunter Hayes, Cassadee Pope to perform at O’Connell Center 
Hayes
 Pope
MORE BATHROOMS, 
PARKING AND SPACE 
WILL BE ADDED.
By Rebecca Papilsky
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville Regional Airport is 
undergoing renovations after ﬂ  ying a record number of passengers.
According to American Airlines 
and Delta Air, 217,355 people ﬂ  ew 
out of Gainesville last year, break-
ing the previous record set in 1990, which was 216,463.
To accommodate more passen-
gers, the airport is adding more re-strooms to the area past security, said Laura Aguiar, the manager of public relations and governmental affairs at Gainesville Regional Air-
port. They are also thinking about 
expanding to have two security lanes and increase parking.
“I think this milestone is just a 
reﬂ  ection on a lot of good things going on in our community,” she said.
Aguiar said as more people choose to ﬂ  y out of Gainesville, ad-ditional airlines might use the air-port, giving access to more cities, she said.
“Airlines are always looking for 
people to sell their market to, and locals want a convenient airport that is close to them and ﬂ  ies out of a lot of places,” Aguiar said.
Construction has already begun 
at the airport, she said. Right now, there are crews adding more space to hold larger aircrafts.
Ultimately, the airport wants to 
open up a west concourse, Aguiar said. Space is becoming an issue due to larger capacity aircrafts and double the amount of people com-ing through each day.
“It can get a little packed, es-
pecially early in the morning,” she said.
Riley Cutler, a UF advertis-
ing junior, said she ﬂ  ies out of Gainesville when she goes home to Virginia. She said she has noticed more passengers at the airport now than in the past.
Cutler, unlike most out-of-state  Gainesville Regional 
Airport is expandingBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
On Wednesday night, a group of UF stu-
dents got one step closer to bringing online 
voting to UF.  
Global Vote, a group of students that ad-
vocates online voting, received approval from the UF Elections Commission for their petition of more than 3,000 signatures. If successful, an amendment will be on the Spring SG elec-
tion ballot to create an online voting system.
After approving polling locations for the 
Spring 2016 elections, Elections Commission 
Chairman Devin Esposito read a memo from the UF supervisor of elections, Erica Baker, in which she expressed concern about the stu-
dents’ method for gathering signatures.
“While I applaud our students exercising their right to put initiatives on the ballot, I am 
concerned with the language used to obtain these signatures,” Baker wrote in the memo.
She said the summary of the petition 
may lead students to think students in UF’s Pathway to Campus Enrollment, Innovation Academy and study-abroad programs have no right to vote. She said the commission or 
the UF Supreme Court should correct the lan-
guage so it doesn’t mislead students. Online voting will be on Spring SG ballot 
SEE VOTING,  PAGE 4
SEE AIRPORT,  PAGE 4Elections are Feb. 16 and 17“While I applaud our students 
exercising their right to put initiatives 
on the ballot, I am concerned with 
the language used to obtain these 
signatures.”
Erica Baker
UF supervisor of electionsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Bobby Shew Live’
UF alumni from across the coun-
try will perform in “Bobby Shew Live,” featuring the UF Jazz Band and Gary Langford. The reunion 
concert will take place Feb. 20 
and will be free and open to the public. Donations are being ac-cepted to the Bobby Shew Jazz/Lead Trumpet Scholarship. Learn more at arts.ufl.edu/bobbyshew-live.
Ark School of Fitness
The Ark School of Fitness will be hosting a community fitness class every Thursday at 5 p.m., starting Feb. 4. The last class will be held April 21. The course is called The Ark Elements. This course will be free and open to all skill levels. The Ark Elements will incorpo-rate elementary gymnastics and 
core stabilization exercises. You 
can expect to gain better control of your body and acquire new body-weight skills. All exercises will be modified to meet individ-ual skill levels and abilities. The application can be found at thear-kfitness.com/the-ark-elements.
‘Salam Neighbor’ presented by 
Gators for UNICEFYou’re invited to a one-night-only showing of “Salam Neighbor,” a film that illustrates the harsh realities currently facing Syrian refugees in Jordan’s Zaatari refu-gee camp. The event is scheduled for Feb. 23 at 7:30 p.m. and will 
be shown at Regal Royal Park 
Stadium 16, situated at 3702 Newberry Road. The price is $12, and we need 78 people to sign up before Feb. 15 for this event to take place. If we do not hit 78 people, those who bought a ticket will not be billed. We hope to see you there. You can pur-
chase your tickets at tugg.com/
events/85975.
‘Meaningful Object’
University Galleries at UF is pleased to present “Meaningful Object” by Jiha Moon in Grinter Gallery, situated in Grinter Hall on UF’s campus, now through 
Feb. 5. A multimedia artist born 
in Korea who now works out of Atlanta, Moon will show a num-ber of works including paper, ce-ramics and prints. Blending influ-ences from Korea, Japan, China and the Western world, Moon uses these cues to create multifac-eted works. This show features a 
collection of works influenced by 
everyday objects, artifacts and cultural signifiers. To learn more, visit arts.ufl.edu/galleries.Three Minute Thesis Competition
The UF Graduate School will host the third annual Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition in 
March. The competition challeng-
es doctoral students to present their dissertation to a non-tech-nical audience in three minutes or less. Preliminary heats will be held throughout March to deter-mine finalists for the grand finale event March 29. Along with help-ing graduate students hone their 
communication and presentation 
skills, winners will be awarded cash prizes. This competition is open to international students. For more information and to reg-ister, please visit graduateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt.
Hispanic-Latinx Queers
Hispanic-Latinx Queers is a dis-cussion group for Hispanic/Latinx identifying queer individu-als who are seeking a safe space where they can discuss their in-tersectionalities and everything they encompass. Our second meeting, Gender, will focus on how gender is defined and in-
tertwined in both latinidad and 
queerness. Be sure to join us, in conjunction with LGBT Affairs, today  at 7 p.m. at the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, situ-ated next to Chipotle Mexican Grill on University Avenue.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum, Feb. 13Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games. The program fee includes admission to the “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” exhibit and participation in trivia night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. 
for this event. Trivia begins at 
7:30 p.m. The program fee is $10 per person or $15 per couple, and it’s free for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card and museum members. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more informa-
tion, call 352-273-2061.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
Words on Canvas is a yearly writ-ing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested in inspiring museumgoers by writing poetry 
or prose connected with a work 
of art. All UF and Santa Fe College students are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will be awarded Harn merchandise, and students may submit until Feb. 21. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more information, please visit our website at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an Escape-
to-Monte-Carlo-themed event 
Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature an escape room, ob-stacle course and acrobat show. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Bridge of Spies” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The 
night will end with free breakfast 
during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate. Students can bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night
The Pride Community Center of North Central Florida will show “Coldwater” on Friday at 7:30 p.m. “Coldwater” follows the sto-ry of Brad, a teenager abducted from his home in the middle of the night with his mother’s con-sent. He is taken to a harsh wil-
derness reform facility. The teen 
has no contact with the outside world, and a retired war colonel in charge prides himself on breaking an inmate’s spirit to correct delin-quent behavior. As you learn of the tragic events that led to Brad’s arrival at the camp, circumstanc-es threaten to tear the eroding 
reform facility. Brad is forced to 
confront his fellow inmates and the personnel in charge, and his own sense of what is right and what is wrong. Gay Movie Night is held the last Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. A $2 donation is 
requested to cover the cost of 
snacks.
 Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 90
HIGH  72° LOW  57AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloBy Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Local musicians will honor Car-
ole King on Saturday.
About 10 artists will perform 
all of the songs from King’s album 
“Tapestry” at 7:30 p.m. in the Histor-ic Thomas Center. The tribute marks 45 years since the album’s release in 
1971.  
“Carole King’s ‘Tapestry’ album 
is near and dear to the hearts of 
the people who lived when it came out,” said Russell Etling, the cul-
tural affairs manager for the City of 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department. “It’s one of the best selling albums of all 
time.”
“Tapestry” won the Grammy 
Award for Album of the Year, and 
Rolling Stone Magazine ranked it No. 36 on its list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.
Cathy DeWitt, who coordinated 
the event, said she looks forward to honoring King. She said King and 
her albums have been a major influ-
ence on her.
“When it came out, it was the 
first album for a woman to win a Grammy,” she said. “It paved the 
way for women singers and song-
writers.”
Etling said holding the tribute 
at the Spanish Court in the Historic 
Thomas Center will make the con-
cert more memorable.“It is a intimate and beautiful his-
torical structure,” he said. “It’s really 
a magical experience.”
DeWitt and Etling started plan-
ning for the event in September. De-
Witt said she expects to see a strong 
turnout.
“I think it’s going to be pretty 
crowded,” the musician said. “There 
has been a lot of buzz about it.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
GNV to honor Carol King with music
The tribute is Saturday
“Carole King’s ‘Tapestry’ 
album is near and dear to the 
hearts of the people who lived 
when it came out. It’s one of 
the best selling albums of all 
time.”
Russell Etling
cultural affairs managerRIGHT:
From left: Local musicians Mike 
Boulware, Carolina Boulware, Maggie Rucker, Janet Rucker, Heather Hall and Cathy DeWitt (front) and others will be per-forming all of the songs from Carole King’s album “T apestry” at 7:30 p.m. Saturday in the His-toric Thomas Center.
Courtesy to the Alligatorstudents, said she chooses to use 
the Gainesville airport instead of going to larger airports because it’s cheaper and more convenient.
“By the time you add up how 
much money it takes to rent a car and get to these other airports, like Tampa or Orlando, it’s just easier to fly local,” the 20-year-old said.
The growing number of pas-
sengers helps keep the airport in business, said Susan Crowley, the assistant vice president for commu-nity relations at UF.
Gainesville Regional Airport at-
tracts faculty as well as business and technological leaders who travel all over the world, she said. There could also be more flights during the day in the future.
A meeting will take place next 
month with various airline compa-nies to talk about expanding ser-vices, Aguiar said.
“If our numbers continue to 
grow, there could possibly be a flight going to New York,” Crowley said. “That would be tremendous.”4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
REACH FOR IT
Adam Stawara, a 19-year-old UF finance sophomore, shoots on the 
Hume basketball court on Wednesday. He and eight other members of Sigma Chi fraternity came for an afternoon pickup game of basketball.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville mayoral and commission can-
didates gathered Wednesday night and dis-
cussed ways to improve biking, walking and commuting in Gainesville.
Current Gainesville mayor and mayoral 
candidate, Ed Braddy, was not present at the forum.
Chris Furlow, the president of Gainesville 
Citizens for Active Transportation, opened the discussion at 7 p.m. at the Santa Fe College Center for Innovation and Economic Develop-ment.
Among several topics, candidates focused 
mainly on safety issues.
Gainesville earned silver-star status from 
the League of American Bicyclists in 2004. Furlow questioned why the city fell short of a gold-star rating.
“We’ve made progress, but safety has a 
long way to go,” said District 4 candidate Adri-an Hayes-Santos.He proposed building a trail that would al-
low cyclists to pedal through all of Gainesville on bike-friendly roads.
Mayoral candidate Lauren Poe said 
Gainesville has a reputation of being unsafe for cyclists.
“Our goal shouldn’t be to get a gold star,” 
Poe said. “It should be to be a great bicycle city.”
District 4 candidate Jim Konish said high-
rise development is the main barrier to all forms of active transportation, whether it be 
walking, biking or riding the bus.
“A lot of the zoning discussion has talked 
about building very tall buildings near low-
density development,” he said. “Let’s face it: That is going to pinch off bicycling and walk-ing altogether.”
Poe suggested an express bus route that 
could transport citizens to their jobs across town. He said the more people use active transportation, the safer the city will be.
Mayoral candidate Donald Shepherd Sr. 
said he’s the only candidate who would use the budget to deliver on the promise of safety.
“The money is there,” he said. “Projects 
that need to be getting done can get done.”
Within an hour after the event, GCAT an-
nounced its endorsement of Lauren Poe for mayor and Adrian Hayes-Santos for District 4 city commissioner.
Elections take place March 15.Local transportation group endorses Poe, Hayes-Santos By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
In light of recent setbacks, 
including cases of sexual harass-ment, Gainesville Police Chief Tony Jones announced Wednes-day he will restructure the de-
partment this year.
During a town hall meeting 
at GPD Headquarters, Jones an-
nounced the addition of a second 
Major, who will oversee internal 
affairs and manage all adminis-trative functions.
The news was prompted, in 
part, by a handful of sexual ha-rassment cases, including one that caused Capt. Brian Helmer-son to resign.
Jones stressed that, although 
the recent incidents were not wholly responsible for the change, they are not to be over-looked.
“I have zero tolerance for this 
type of stuff that went through in 2015,” he said to the crowd of about 80 people.
This year, all GPD officers 
will receive training in proce-dural justice, along with fair and impartial policing, Jones said. The department is also planning extended ethics training for the entire force.
So far this year, only a select 
few members of the department 
have received this new training.  
Additionally, Jones said he 
will be instituting an oath of 
honor, which officers will be ex-pected to recite.
“On my honor, I will never 
betray my profession, my in-tegrity, character or the public trust,” Jones read.
After looking toward the fu-
ture, Jones invited a criminal investigations commander to re-flect on the past.
Between 2014 and 2015, 
crime rates increased by about 3 percent, said GPD Lt. Mike Schentrup.
He said it was the first in-
crease since 2009, but given that crime rates dropped by nearly 7 percent between 2013 and 2014, Schentrup was not surprised to see the 3 percent increase.  
Between 2014 and 2015, rob-
beries also increased from 149 cases to 232. However, GPD’s ar-rests for robbery increased from 
121 to 220.
GPD investigators solved 77 
percent of robbery cases in 2015, 
Schentrup said.
Instances of rape increased by about 13 cases between 2014 and 2015, and cases of aggravat-ed assault rose from 563 to 585, 
he said.
By the end of the night, dur-
ing a time designated for audi-
ence questions, the crowd stood and clapped — but not for Jones.
“You didn’t think we were 
gonna finish this without talking about Bobby White,” said GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias.
At the urging of a few audi-
ence members, “Basketball Cop” White made an appearance, bringing some of the kids fea-tured in a recent viral video.
“I met Shaq,” one of the two 
teenagers said.
Refocusing on the topic of 
GPD’s future, Mayor Ed Braddy 
said the City Commission would 
consider options to improve the department.
“We are not comfortable with 
doing things well,” he said. “We need to take it even higher.”
Jones ended the meeting with 
a reassuring tone.
“We’re gonna do some great 
things in 2016.”
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org GPD to be restructured in 2016
The airport saw 
217,355 passengers
AIRPORT,  from pg 1CRIME
The memo set off arguments 
from members of the student group.
Tyler Richards, a member of 
Global Vote, argued against the 
memo.
“We disagree wholeheartedly 
with Erica Baker,” Richards said. “The wording is extraordinarily clear.”
Austin Young, a member of 
Global Vote, cited Article 8, Section 2 of the UF Constitution, and ar-gued the petition reached the 5-per-cent threshold, gathering more than 
2,500 votes. Only the amendment’s 
summary can be modified by the commission.
Commission members argued if 
the petition did mislead students, they cannot change the language of the amendment because it wasn’t what the students signed.
“The whole language seems 
flawed,” Commissioner Brian Sul-livan said.
Young argued that, no matter 
what, the amendment will be on the ballot because it received more than 2,500 signatures.
The petition garnered 350 votes 
on the first day, Young said. He said it showed students agreed online voting should be available at UF.
Baker wrote in an email that 
the amendment will need to pass by a majority vote in the Supreme Court. Once it is put on the ballot, it will also need a majority of student votes to pass.
But to the members of Global 
Vote, giving students the chance to vote online was a victory.
“We’re just happy that it’s fi-nally going to the ballot,” Young said. “Students will get to decide for themselves.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org
VOTING,  from pg 1A petition was signed by more than 3,000
COLLEGES THAT HAVE 
ONLINE VOTING
• Florida State University
• University of South Florida
• University of Central 
Florida
• University of GeorgiaCandidates focused on safety topics
“If our numbers continue to 
grow, there could possibly be 
a flight going to New York.”
Susan Crowely
assistant vice president for 
community relations at UFTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Baskin-Robbins drops 
prices Sunday
From Chocolate Fudge to Cotton 
Candy, Baskin-Robbins will offer dis-
counts on all its ﬂ  avors for the ﬁ  rst time this year.
Both of Gainesville’s Baskin-Rob-
bins locations will continue a new tradition by offering  two-scoop sun-daes for $3.31 and one scoop of ice cream for $1.31 Sunday.
Billy Southworth, the manager of 
the Northwest 13th Street location, said the event started last year on the chain’s 31st anniversary.
The promotion runs year-round 
on the 31st of each month. Custom-ers can choose from Baskin-Robbins’ 31 ﬂ  avors, along with toppings for 31 cents. Southworth said his sales increase about 15 percent every 31st day of a month.“The idea was that there were 31 
ﬂ  avors of ice cream, so everything ends in 31 cents,” Southworth said.
On a normal day, one scoop of 
ice cream would cost $2.49 and two-scoop sundaes would cost $4.49, Southworth said.
“We are expecting a lot of people 
now that the students are back in town.” Southworth said. 
Along with Southworth’s loca-
tion, the city’s other Baskin-Robbins is situated at 1412 W. University Ave.
Megan Werbel, a 20-year-old UF 
psychology sophomore, said her go-to order is a scoop of Mint Chocolate Chip in a sugar cone.
Werbel said she plans on taking 
advantage of the discounts with her sorority sisters.
“It would be fun to go with my 
sisters for a nice ice cream pick-me-up,” she said.
- Corey Zimmerman
FREE CHICKEN SALAD AND TWO-SCOOP SUNDAY
Gainesville restaurant 
offers free chicken salad
In honor of the chain’s eighth 
anniversary, Gainesville’s Chicken 
Salad Chick is offering a free scoop of chicken salad today. 
Brittany Morgan, a 25-year-old 
UF sports management graduate student, said she ate chicken salad for the ﬁ  rst time at the restaurant’s grand opening in December.
It wasn’t long before Morgan in-
corporated Chicken Salad Chick into her weekly routine.
“I got my sister going there,” 
Morgan said. “She’s just as addicted 
as I am.”
Today, the restaurant joins loca-
tions across the country in a custom-
er appreciation day to thank patrons for supporting the chain.
Mark Singletary, the owner of the Gainesville location, said he’s offering a free scoop of the “Classic Carol” chicken salad.
“What we hope is that we will 
lure them in with our wonderful sal-ad,” Singletary said. “We’re trying to create fans.”
Singletary said the restaurant, sit-
uated in the University Towne Cen-
ter at 3045 SW 34th St., is currently 
the only Gainesville location.
He plans to open another location 
within the next year.
“My favorite part is interacting 
with our customers,” Singletary said. “I like introducing this market to southern traditions and hospitality.”
Lauren Peterson, a 19-year-old 
UF psychology sophomore, said she enjoys the salads’ varied ﬂ  avors.
“It’s free chicken salad, and I’m 
going to go because it’s free food,” Peterson said.
- Sara MarinoEmma Green / Alligator Staff
IT’S IN TENTS
Matthew Ruppert (right), a 20-year-old UF biomedical engineering sophomore, sits in a tent promot-
ing UF’s TRiP , a program that sponsors nature excursions for students, on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. “I did a lot of backpacking before I came to UF, ” he said. “This semester I’m leading Max Patch, ” which is a backpacking trip to North Carolina.
CRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A federal grand jury indicted 
a former Marion County deputy 
sheriff Tuesday for using exces-
sive force during an arrest in 
2014.
On Aug. 7, 2014, Jesse Alan 
Terrell, 33, repeatedly struck, 
kneed and kicked a man in his 
head and upper body, according to an indictment issued by the Department of Justice. 
Terrell was ﬁ  red a year later 
on Aug. 4, 2015, after supervi-sors reviewed a video of the incident, said Marion County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce spokeswoman 
Ofﬁ  cer Lauren Lettelier. 
He faces up to 10 years in 
prison and a ﬁ  ne of $250,000, 
according to a DOJ press re-lease.
The victim of the assault was later identiﬁ  ed as then-43-year-old Derrick Price, whom Terrell 
arrested for drug charges with 
the help of four other deputies, Lettelier said. 
In a mugshot taken after the 
arrest, Price’s left eye appears 
swollen and purple. Letellier 
said all ﬁ  ve deputies took part in the assault, but only Terrell has been formally indicted. 
The other deputies resigned 
and pled guilty to the assaults, she said.
The FBI’s Jacksonville Divi-
sion is investigating the inci-
dent, and the U.S. Attorney for 
the Middle District of Florida and the Criminal Section of the DOJ Civil Rights Division are 
prosecuting the case, the release 
states.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgFormer deputy indicted 
for using excessive force
THE DEBATE IS FEB. 8 AT THE 
UNIVERSITY AUDITORIUM.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
To Karina Barbazuk, it’s important for stu-
dents to ask Student Government candidates 
questions ahead of Spring elections.
“A lack of an outlet like that would be a 
loss,” the 18-year-old UF biology freshman 
said.
SG is accepting questions to ask executive 
candidates from Access Party and Impact Party 
at the SG debate Feb. 8. The free event, held at the University Auditorium at 6 p.m., will be hosted by SG, the UF Supervisor of Elections and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.
“The purpose of the debate is to provide 
a public forum for the candidates to discuss their visions for UF and to educate the student 
body,” Erica Baker, the UF supervisor of elec-
tions, wrote in email.
About 800 students can attend the debate, 
she said. Baker is working with Action SG to livestream the event.
Students can submit questions about the 
parties’ platforms or speciﬁ  c questions to can-didates, she said. Questions can be submitted in-person at the SG ofﬁ  ce or online.
Marna Weston, a UF debate coach, will be the moderator.
Kevin Baron, a civic engagement coordina-
tor of the Graham Center, said the center can help provide a nonpartisan platform for the debate.
“We want to provide an avenue for the can-
didates to present themselves and for students to be able to ask them questions and hear their responses,” he said.
During Fall semester, a debate between the 
two parties was canceled due to time restraints and lack of communication, said Emma Humphries, a civic engagement coordinator of the Graham Center. 
Humphries said she was approached to be a 
moderator, and she agreed. But after being told SG wouldn’t formally sponsor the debate, she said she had second thoughts.
“I tend to be supportive of anything that 
students want to do, but this just didn’t feel right,” she said. “Once I knew this wasn’t an ofﬁ  cially recognized SG debate, my gut said, 
‘nope.’” 
Baron said the center’s goal is to let candi-
dates have a chance to present themselves to 
students and for students to make an informed decision when they vote.  
“It’s a real and honest debate,” he said. 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org  SG taking questions for executive candidates for debateThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
You can now vote 
to approve online 
SG voting — ﬁ  nally
On Wednesday afternoon, the UF Election Commission 
decided to allow an amendment about online voting to appear on the Spring 2016 Student Government election ballot. This means, in two weeks, UF students will be able to vote for or against online voting for future SG 
elections.
If passed, the amendment would allow students to not only 
vote on campus, but also online through ISIS. With ISIS already protecting our Social Security numbers and personal informa-tion, we at the Alligator are comfortable with the site also han-dling our election votes. 
While you’ll be deprived of your ability to sport an “I vot-
ed” sticker around campus, this does mean you’ll be able to cast your vote for SG candidates from anywhere you want. Not 
only does this make things easier for those of us in the city of 
Gainesville, but it also makes things a lot easier for students still enrolled but not anywhere near a voting station.
And we at the Alligator couldn’t be happier — except for the 
fact that it took SG this long to give the Student Body the option to consider online voting.
Online voting was ﬁ  rst shut down in 2008 by the UF Su-
preme Court for reasons we still don’t understand. Ever since then, SG hasn’t bothered to consider it, even as Florida State 
University, the University of South Florida and the University 
of Central Florida have all managed to successfully implement online voting systems.
It brings up the simple question: If they can do it, why can’t 
we?
The amendment’s language on the ballot was challenged by 
UF Supervisor of Elections Erica Baker. In a memo, she argued against the original petition simply because the wording implied that students in UF’s Pathway to Campus Enrollment program, 
online students and those studying abroad could not currently 
vote. Right now, they can vote through absentee ballots.
As journalists, we completely understand how a single word 
can completely warp meaning and intentions. But in this situa-tion, the wording of the petition won’t affect the amendment’s outcome. It will still make things much easier for PaCE and off-campus students to vote, regardless of potential misconcep-tions, and that’s what matters.
Simply put, the amendment, if approved, would surely help 
increase our dismal election turnout. When it comes down to it, Baker’s duty as supervisor is to encourage students to vote and to make that process as easy as possible. We believe this amendment will give all students equal opportunity to vote.
But in two weeks, all of this may not matter. Because if the 
amendment doesn’t receive at least 60 percent of student sup-port, this possibility is gone. And having come so far, it would most likely be very difﬁ  cult for it to gain traction again.
That’s why, readers, it’s up to you. We cannot stress enough 
how important it is, more than ever, for you to vote in this year’s Spring elections. Not only will you be voting for the peo-ple who will control millions of dollars in your student fees (a whole other issue entirely), but you’ll be voting to give your fel-low Gators — abroad, online and at home — the chance to have their voices heard for the ﬁ  rst time in UF history.
So, on Feb. 16 and 17, we at the Alligator encourage our fel-
low students to vote in favor of the online voting amendment.
Because if you walk to the polls then, you may not have to 
ever again.The problem is Hollywood, not the academy
Not even a week after this year’s Os-car nominations were released, Jada Pinkett Smith, the wife of Hollywood icon Will Smith, did what all noble public ﬁ  gures do and took to Facebook 
to express her dissatisfaction. Smith and her supporters, one of them being director Spike Lee, are calling for a boycott of the Oscars. Why? Because of the lack of people of color in the nominations.
The response to the controversy has been 
nothing short of fantastic. Stacey Dash, a black actress herself, stated, “I think it’s ludicrous. We have to make up our minds. Either we want segregation or integra-
tion.”
Dash brings up a much larger problem currently fac-
ing America: the constantly shifting sociological border 
between races. Unfortunately, there is still a lingering sense of racial unrest in our country, and in my esti-mation, the Oscars are not helping. I understand want-ing to preserve historically signiﬁ  cant elements of one’s heritage and culture, but this is not a positive form of tolerance, nor is it useful for generating understanding 
between different people.
On her talk show “The View,” Whoopi Goldberg ar-
gued, “You wanna boycott something? Don’t go see the 
movies that don’t have your representation. That’s the boycott you want.”
But is Goldberg’s idea to boycott a movie because it 
doesn’t “have your representation” just another subtle form of racism? It deliberately goes against something because of skin color. How can Goldberg be against 
boycotting the Oscars, yet be for boycotting ﬁ  lms based 
on race? Is that not equally divisive? Aren’t both actions the opposite of the unifying actions we so desperately need in this country?
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Scienc-
es doesn’t adhere to a strict racial quota, but instead selects its nominations based on merit. Leonardo Di-Caprio slept inside the carcass of a horse, ate an actual bison liver and braved hypothermia for his role in “The Revenant.” That man deserves his nomination. As for the other nominations, there is simply not enough evidence to sug-gest the academy is prejudiced against any 
single group.
The Economist broke out raw data to get to 
the bottom of this. What resulted was a demo-
graphically segmented breakdown of the U.S. population, compared with the demographics of Oscar nominations and wins. The result: 
no apparent racism at the Oscars. Hollywood itself is another story.
“In fact, as our analysis of ﬁ  lm casts and awards 
shows, the number of black actors winning Oscars in this century has been pretty much in-line with the size of America’s overall black population,” the article said. “But this does not mean Hollywood has no problems of prejudice. As the data show, it clearly does.”
According to the Economist, the problem is not sole-
ly with black actors: it’s with all minorities.
“Blacks are 12.6% of the American population, and 
10% of Oscar nominations,” the article states. “But just 
3% have gone to their Hispanic peers (16% of the popu-
lation), 1% to those with Asian backgrounds, and 2% to those of other heritage.”
To paraphrase the Economist’s report, the supposed 
whitewashing is not taking place in the academy, but instead in the drama schools and casting ofﬁ  ces of the entire entertainment industry. The academy is not to blame for this, so why boycott them?
The academy is not against black people, and this 
shouldn’t be the story. Underrepresentation of all mi-norities is prevalent in Hollywood, and to single out one race and ignore the others is simply wrong. If this is to be ﬁ  xed, we don’t need boycotts of award ceremonies, but instead, legitimate social change.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. His column 
appears on Thursdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
In 2014, West Africa experi-
enced one of the worst ca-tastrophes in modern histo-
ry. It was not a civil war or 
natural disaster of a physical 
sort, but rather, a virus known as Ebola. What started out as a 
few unconfirmed reports even-
tually developed into one of the worst epidemics in medical his-tory. 
This quickly created fear not only in 
Africa, but also in the rest of the world. It 
was thanks to the doctors on the ground 
and international aid that the virus did not 
spread farther. The panic surrounding Ebola 
showed that, when it comes to monitoring 
and preventing epidemics, the immediate 
response from the international community 
leaves much to be desired. 
It has been nearly two years since the Eb-
ola outbreak, and although it has been suc-cessfully contained, it seems we are making 
the same mistakes with the Zika virus.
According to the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, the Zika virus is 
usually found in Africa, Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands. 
At the end of 2015, reports showed that 
the virus had made its way to Brazil. Since 
that time, the virus has spread throughout 
a considerable portion of South and Cen-tral America. This rapid spread is prob-ably due to the vector through which the 
virus is transferred — mosquitos.
The symptoms of the virus are noth-
ing new, nor are they deadly. Most pa-tients experience fever, rash, joint pain 
and conjunctivitis. These conditions usu-ally last a few days, but there is a new development that has created a profound cause for concern in the countries already 
contending with Zika. 
The virus has been linked to micro-
cephaly, a condition in which babies are 
born with unusually small heads. 
In Brazil, nearly 4,000 babies have 
been born with this condition since the outbreak of the virus. 
Many experts suggest this is due to 
pregnant mothers contracting the virus during pregnancy.
This article is not meant to spread fear of a virus that has not yet shown up in the U.S. Rather, it is meant to show not only the 
inability regional governments 
possess in dealing with pan-demics, but also the inability of the international community as 
a whole. 
The fears of Ebola were only 
taken seriously when the risk of 
transmission posed a threat to Europe and 
the U.S. Until that time, it was reserved 
mostly for the back pages of newspapers.
The international community spent 
nearly $4.3 billion to end the outbreak of 
Ebola in 2014, according to the Save the 
Children foundation. 
The organization also cited that hav-
ing the proper health care infrastructure 
to prevent the spread of Ebola in the first place would have only cost about $1.58 
billion.
As globalization has made the world 
smaller, we need to collectively realize 
that viruses and outbreaks can affect ev-
ery person on Earth at a frighteningly fast 
rate, and as such, we should be better prepared. 
It is clear that countries such as Bra-
zil, which has had over a million reported 
cases of Zika, could probably use some 
assistance from the CDC or the World Health Organization. 
El Salvador’s master plan to stop Zika 
is to ask its citizens to stop having chil-dren for two years. 
This plan is impossible to enforce and 
impossible to achieve, and it will not only fail to stop the virus, but it will also pro-
duce severe consequences for the coun-
try’s future. 
The first step to solving a problem 
is understanding it. The U.S. and other 
countries prone to the Zika virus need to 
educate their respective citizenry and put measures into place in order to prevent infections before they start. 
At the same time, countries that are al-
ready afflicted need to be given assistance in mitigating the crisis at hand.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Thurs-
days.The Zika virus is an urgent concernColumn
Hello, Gators! Time has 
ﬂ  own by since my last article, but I’m so hap-
py to be back.
2015 was an incred-
ible year for UF. We not only 
inaugurated our 12th president 
of UF, but we also become SEC 
East Champions! And now, it’s the Spring semester! If you’re like me, a graduating senior, you’re probably a little stressed that grad-
uation is upon you, but you’re happy to 
reﬂ  ect on your journey as a Gator.
For the ﬁ  rst column of the new year, 
I want to take the opportunity to share a 
few of the highlights from Student Gov-
ernment so far. Since we last talked, I ad-dressed the Student Body at the 2015 State of the Campus address and discussed the actions the executive branch has taken 
since we’ve been in ofﬁ  ce. Kevin, Nick 
and I were extremely excited to share all of our work that we’ve done. We really wanted to show how we are working to 
keep our promise of providing an acces-
sible and beneﬁ  cial administration for our fellow UF students.
Since taking ofﬁ  ce last April, we have 
continued our commitment to serving stu-
dents, increasing diversity as well as trans-
parency and being approachable leaders. Even in light of the upcoming election sea-son, we will work toward these goals for 
SG for the remainder of our term.
My administration has also made diver-
sity a priority. We not only created a new 
SG position within the council of advisers for diversity affairs, but that adviser has 
also proved instrumental in ensuring all 
executive branch ofﬁ  cials receive compre-hensive diversity training in collaboration with UF’s Multicultural and Diversity Af-
fairs department.
In November, SG External Affairs host-
ed its ﬁ  rst Week of Civic Engagement. 
Throughout the week, we facilitated events to help students learn about how 
their government works at the local, state 
and federal levels, as well as how they can get involved. In coordination with Ac-cent Speakers Bureau, we also brought Al 
Sharpton and Ray Kelly to discuss recent issues in our society. As SG, 
we feel it is our responsibility to provide UF students with the 
opportunity to learn as much 
about the political process as possible, helping to foster Gators to mature into informed 
members of a national commu-
nity.
In December, we took on 
an incredibly important issue 
on our campus in a new way by hosting 
the ﬁ  rst Mental Health Awareness Week. 
In the recent Healthy Gators Report, we found that anxiety, depression, panic disorders, disordered eating, suicide ide-
ation, self-injury ideation, sleeping abnor-
malities and stress are some of the most prevalent mental health issues students face at UF.
In light of the upcoming election cycle, 
we hope to help increase access to SG elections through online voting and other methods of improved transparency. I cre-ated a Remote Online Voting Task Force 
that is looking at how other schools in 
Florida and the SEC have implemented their online voting systems to help us de-velop an efﬁ  cient system here.
Additionally, as the Spring semester 
starts to gear up, we are starting off strong with a series of events throughout the season. Next Monday, Accent Speaker’s Bureau partners with the Jewish Student 
Union to bring Paul Rudd to campus for 
a free, public show at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. In the continued spirit of transparency, SG and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service will be hosting 
the elections debate Feb. 8, which gives 
students the opportunity to hear from both parties directly about the issues fac-ing students.
For the new year, I am happy to be 
continuing this column and keeping my fellow students, faculty, staff and commu-nity informed about SG happenings.
As always, thank you for allowing me 
to continue to serve you.
Ciao!Joselin Padron-Rasines is the UF Stu-
dent Body president. Her column appears 
monthly.2016 oﬀ   to a great start on campusColumn
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org
Joselin 
Padron-Rasines
opinions@alligator.org
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville nurse Tues-
day after he threatened to kill a woman’s 
dogs.
At about 2 p.m. Tuesday, Patrick Graham 
Hennau, 52, held a Taser gun in one hand and a .45-caliber pistol in the other, accord-ing to a police report.
Hennau is listed as a registered nurse 
who practices at the Malcom Randall Veter-ans Affairs Medical Center, according to the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System.
Standing at the edge of 
the woman’s driveway, Hennau turned his Taser on 
and off in front of her dogs, 
according to the report.
When the woman told 
Hennau to leave, he cursed 
at her and said he’d kill her dogs, accord-
ing to the report. Hennau then walked to 
the woman’s neighbor with the Taser in his 
hand and the pistol holstered. The neighbor, who was gardening, told Hennau to leave.
As Hennau reached under his shirt for his 
pistol, the man ran to his yard to grab a ma-chete, according to the report. The woman called police soon after.
Hennau’s computation date  — the date on 
which someone enters federal service — was Nov. 16, 2008, according to Cindy Snook, a spokeswoman for the North Florida/South Georgia Veterans Health System.
Police arrested Hennau on two charges of 
aggravated assault and took him to the Ala-chua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $100,000 bond.
@martindvassoo
mvassolo@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
By Kayla Solem
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF club will register organ 
donors next week.
For the first time, Big Heart 
Gators is partnering with the Ka-tie Caples Foundation to try to register 2,000 students to become donors. They will register stu-
dents from Monday to Friday on 
Turlington Plaza and at the Reitz Union, except for Wednesday, where they will be at UF Health Shands Hospital.
The foundation began in 1998 
after Katie Caples died in a car ac-cident at 17. Because she was an organ donor, she saved five lives, 
said Jennifer Cook, the executive 
director of the foundation. Katie’s parents helped found the organi-zation to save others’ lives.
“It is really rather inspiring,” 
Cook said.
Bradley Bean, the president of 
Big Heart Gators, said he helped found the club with friends after 
he heard Caples’ story. The club 
has been growing ever since.
“If something does happen 
and you’re not going to make it, the greatest gift you can give to 
someone else is the gift of life 
— the ability to keep on living,” Bean said. “Because something happened to you, you’re going to 
keep on giving to somebody else.”
Bean, a 21-year-old UF indus-
trial and systems engineering se-
nior, said students can help others by registering.
“Honestly, there’s no downside 
to being an organ donor — there’s absolutely not,” Bean said. “It’s an act of love and helping others.”
When someone dies, a donor’s 
organs will go different places de-pending on blood type, body type and location, Cook said. Caples’ heart, for example, was donated 
to someone in New York, she said.
Cook said she thinks the club 
can reach its goal.
“That’s a lot of people, and 
that is a big goal, but I am very 
confident that we are going to chip away at that,” Cook said.  UF club 
promotes organ donation
He was arrested Tuesday afternoon
Hennau
Male nurse threatens dogs and bystandersBy Felicia Solazzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
With a donation from AT&T, 
young men in Alachua County 
will soon have the chance to gain 
experience in music, broadcast 
television and video production.  
At 11 a.m. Friday, AT&T re-
gional director Heather Duncan 
will present a $10,000 check to 
the Reichert House Youth Acad-emy for boys at its 1704 SE Sec-ond Ave. location.Karen McAllister, an AT&T 
media relations manager, said 
Duncan heard about the Reichert 
House in October and came up with the idea.
The Reichert House is an 
after-school program that helps 
Alachua youth with the transi-
tion from adolescence to adult-hood, according to its website.
McAllister said the money 
will be used to teach students audio and video recording and production methods.“We really appreciate hav-
ing the chance to support the 
Reichert House and the work 
they do for young men in Gainesville,” McAllister said. “They really do make an impact in the community.”
She said Reichert House invit-
ed State Rep. Clovis Watson Jr. to the check presentation, where he will recognize the instructors 
and students. A demonstration of 
the academy’s audio and video equipment will follow the pre-sentation.
John Alexander Jr., the execu-
tive director at Reichert House, said it’s important for donors to get a return on their investment.
“We are very, very thankful 
for them to even consider us for 
the opportunity to receive this 
grant,” Alexander said. “Beyond the grant, in the future, hopeful-ly this can open doors for young 
men to gain internships and em-
ployment opportunities through AT&T.” AT&T expands technical skills, career optionsCAMPUSCREATING CAFFEINATED ART
LEFT:
Katie Cox, a 19-year-old UF biology freshman, uses coffee and tea 
to paint a picture of a tree on the second floor of McCarty Hall A on Wednesday night. Cox said she’d never painted before, but she was having fun.
BELOW:
Students use coffee, tea and coffee grounds to paint pictures on the second floor of McCarty Hall A on Wednesday night as part of CRE-ATE’s biweekly arts and crafts get-together. CREATE, which stands for creating reality elevating art through expression, is a UF club that invites students to participate in a variety of artistic events to relieve stress and give students a space to express themselves.
Photos by Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
LOCAL“Honestly, there’s no downside 
to being an organ donor — 
there’s absolutely not,” Bean 
said. “It’s an act of love and 
helping others.”
Bradley Bean
president of Big Heart GatorsKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Nashville band Bully to perform in GNV
The band will perform at the Atlantic, pg 13.What’s inside: 
UF club to host video game party, pg 10.This week’s Mediocre Advice, pg 13.THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
Rooster Teeth, an Austin-based 
production company known for its 
online content, released its ﬁ  rst-ever feature-length ﬁ  lm, “Lazer Team,” in theatres Wednesday. Crowd-funded through Indiegogo, the comedy features a misﬁ  t team that must put aside its differences 
to save the planet from an alien 
threat. Tickets for nearby showings can be bought at lazerteamthemov-ie.com. The movie will also debut on YouTube Red in early February.
Burnie Burns, star and co-writer 
of the ﬁ  lm, spoke with the Avenue about all things “Lazer Team.”
KB: Let’s start from the begin-
ning: Where did the idea of “Lazer 
Team” originate?
BB: “Lazer Team” originally 
came about from a pitch session we 
had a few years ago. We all were throwing out ideas, and everybody came to the table with something 
amazing. “Lazer Team” was born out of that. It wasn’t within our ca-
pabilities to make it at that point, but we grew to the point where we 
could and thought, “OK, we can 
make this movie, but we want to make it even bigger.” That was the origin of us deciding to do this as a crowd-funded movie.
We wanted to make “Lazer 
Team” not only for our audience, but also for a larger audience. Gavin (Free) says we didn’t want to 
make “Rooster Teeth, The Movie,” 
we wanted to make Rooster Teeth’s movie. It wasn’t just like, “Hey, we made a movie, and it’s just the big-ger version of everything we do on-line.” This was something entirely different.
KB: You play the part of Hagan, 
a beaten-down sheriff who gets thrown into this heroic role. How much of yourself was put into the character?
BB: When writing the story, you 
kind of have an idea that you might be auditioning for it. So you’re thinking, “Oh, I can play this, or I can play that.” I didn’t think about myself for Hagan — at all. If I had, I probably wouldn’t have made him 
have the shield, because he’s basi-
cally the guy who takes all the abuse for the team. The main thing was, with Hagan — I tend to be a big-ger, loud-mouthed, talk-fast kind of guy — and he’s a guy from a small town who hasn’t done much with his life. I had to essentially take it down a notch to play him.
KB: What would you say was 
the most fun you had while making “Lazer Team”?
BB: I’d say the most fun was the 
days we were doing mass explo-sions. But the best moment for me was when the spaceship crashes 
in the ﬁ  eld, and the characters are 
pulling all the pieces of the armor out. That, to me, was the scene I always latched onto as the image for the movie, years before we had even made it. So when I was stand-ing in that ﬁ  eld in Texas on a cold winter night, I was like, “This is it. This is what I’ve been thinking about for all these years, and here it is sitting right in front of me.” That was really amazing.
KB: Did you have a least favor-
ite part?
BB: The hardest part was just 
making a movie. Making a movie is tough. I found a newfound respect for actors on huge-scale produc-tions, because it can take two hours for the rest of the crew to set up, 
and then, when they’re ready to go, 
the actor has to run in there and be awesome in 30 seconds. That’s a lot of pressure when you know every-one’s depending on you.
KB: Are there any plans for a 
second feature ﬁ  lm, whether it be a “Lazer Team” sequel or something 
else entirely?
BB: Sure! In 2016, I think we’re 
focused on taking what we learned 
from “Lazer Team” and making sort of a long-form series. People love watching things like “Game of Thrones” and “The Walking Dead,” and we love watching those as well, so right now we’re focused on something like that. But with ev-erything we’re hearing about “Laz-
er Team,” I would not be surprised 
if we were back to making another feature a few months after it goes to theaters.
KB: And having had success 
with not only “Lazer Team,” but also with online video content, what advice do you have for any 
UF students trying to pave a similar 
path?
BB: There’s a lot more opportu-
nities for distributing content than when I ﬁ  rst got started. But that’s both a curse and a blessing. Right now on YouTube, every minute that goes by, 300 hours of foot-
age are uploaded to the platform. I 
would say the best way to be dis-covered is to make something you would want to watch; make some-thing that’s genuine. If you do that, and you do that well, you will ﬁ  nd an audience. That’s what works for us at Rooster Teeth.Q&A: Rooster Teeth’s Burnie Burns  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Rooster T eeth released its ﬁ  rst feature length ﬁ  lm, “Lazer T eam” on Wednesday. The ﬁ  lm’s co-writer and star Burnie Burns (left) spoke with the Avenue this week.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
UF’s Gator Gaming Club is provid-
ing a trip down memory lane with 
its ﬁ  rst-ever gaming party, featuring video game favorites from the ‘90s until now.
The club, known for hosting its 
annual GatorLAN tournament, is tak-ing a different approach this year with its Gator Gaming Winter Party. While 
their past tournaments have brought 
in hundreds of participants, they ex-pect this year to be even bigger, ac-cording to their website.
The gaming party will take place 
Saturday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from noon to 8 p.m.
The tournament is free and open 
to the general public. Registration for all games will be at the door, and at-tendants will have the opportunity to play against others while meeting new people from all across the state who frequently travel to Gator Gam-ing events.With more than 11 games listed, 
including “Mario Party,” “Mario Kart,” “Pokémon” and “Dance Dance 
Revolution,” there is sure to be some-
thing for everyone. A wide variety of consoles will also be available, includ-ing Nintendo’s GameCube, Wii, 3DS and Nintendo 64.
Attendees can expect a fun and 
relaxed atmosphere, as the event will not have a competitive edge like usual gaming tournaments.
“Tournaments are usually all day, 
but this one is more casual, more fun and less serious,” Ben Rachman, the event coordinator, said.
Participants will also get a chance 
to reminisce on their childhoods while playing on older consoles.
“One cool thing about this tourna-
ment is that we will have Nintendos,” 
the 19-year-old microbiology and eco-
nomics sophomore said. “There will be new things that have never been done before.”
Rachman said the most popu-
lar game seems to be “Super Smash Bros.”Throughout the day, the party will 
have mini-tournaments available for anyone who wants a more competi-
tive atmosphere, with “Mario Party,” 
“Pokémon” and “Super Smash Bros.” among the competitions available.
Annabelle Pulliam, a family, youth 
and community sciences sophomore, said this will be her fourth time at-tending a Gator Gaming tournament.
“People would be surprised to 
learn how far the skill levels range for 
certain gaming groups,” the 19-year-
old said. “Most of the time, people are there to help.”
The party will not only be a place 
for gaming and ‘90s nostalgia, but also for building friendships over a shared love of video games.
“I’m looking forward most to 
hopefully ﬁ  nding someone who I 
can befriend and play with regularly 
when I get back home,” Shane Cook, a 19-year-old UF computer science sophomore, said.
It is suggested that attendees bring 
their own controllers, along with any games or set-ups.UF club to host video game party “People would be surprised to 
learn how far the skill levels 
range for certain gaming 
groups.”
Annabelle Pulliam
UF sophomore
The Gator Gaming Winter 
Party will take place on Saturday at Reitz Union from noon to 8 p.m.
LEFT:
Gamers participate in Gator Gaming’s GatorLAN tournmant this past summer. This weekend’s event will be less focused on competition. 
Photos Courtesy to the Alligator
GAMINGBy Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
The Floridiana Show and Rare 
Book Sale will return to the Mathe-
son History Museum this year and 
showcase antique collectors from 
around Florida.
The free event will begin at 
10 a.m. Saturday at the museum, 
situated at 513 E. University Ave.
Museumgoers will have the op-
portunity to view and purchase 
a selection of Floridiana, historic postcards, antique bottles, jewelry 
and other memorabilia, said Peggy 
Macdonald, the executive director of the museum.
“The Floridiana show is just a 
celebration of this beautiful Flori-da from a century ago that is lost in some ways, but still exists in old postcards, images, books and objects,” Macdonald said. “It’s fun 
to look at it all, and of course peo-
ple get really into collecting it.”
The Floridiana show has gained 
more interest on social media than 
any event the museum has hosted 
in the past.
The show costs $25 for vendors 
and collectors to join and will be set up inside the museum, Mac-
donald said. 
She said collectors would have 
the opportunity to both show and 
sell pieces from their collections. 
During the event, items in the gift 
shop will be on a special 20-per-cent discount.“There are a lot of unique 
shows around the state, but they are very speciﬁ  c — like about spe-ciﬁ  c military history or civil war,” Macdonald said.  “Floridiana 
shows are unique.”
Sharon Bauer, a volunteer and 
research consultant at the mu-
seum, is looking forward to Satur-day’s sale.
“While I buy postcards and 
UF yearbooks online, I’m glad to have the opportunity to see them and talk to vendors at the show,” 
Bauer said.
Macdonald said the show will 
be an opportunity for Florida col-
lectors to connect with the public and other collectors who share a common obsession.
“Collecting is just addictive,” 
Macdonald said. “People get so into it. It’s fun for the collectors to see other collectors and people 
who spend so much time trying to 
ﬁ  nd these rare Florida items.”
The show also offers a hands-
on learning experience for the public.
“It is a fun way to learn his-tory, because even though these are objects or papers or things you 
can hold and look at, you can also 
learn a lot from them,” Macdonald said.
Janet Jones, a 20-year-old UF 
international relations junior, plans on attending the event with a friend.
“I love how eclectic and vi-
brant the Florida and speciﬁ  cally 
Gainesville community is,” Jones 
said. “I am really excited to check out the antique jewelry since I love to collect one-of-a-kind pieces.”
Along with antique postcards 
and jewelry, Macdonald said col-lectable books will be items of in-terest at the Floridiana show.
“Some of the vendors will be 
bringing their own books. Some will be Florida-themed, and some will be unique old books,” Mac-donald said. “The theme is deﬁ  -
nitely old and historic. Eclectic is 
another good word for it.”
The event will offer an oppor-
tunity for the viewing and sale of uniquely historic items.
“In terms of the Floridiana, we 
have things that are sort of vin-tage-retro. People are taking a re-newed interest in old theme parks 
before Disney, like Weeki Wachee 
mermaids and, of course, Silver Springs and Cypress Gardens,” she said. “In many ways, some of these items might be over the top 
or sort of tacky and eclectic, but 
that’s what makes them so much fun.”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
Credit
Matheson History Museum is hosting its Floridiana Show and Rare Book Sale on Saturday. Pic-
tured above is an example of the postcards that will be available at the show.
Matheson celebrates Florida history with memorabilia By Kali Kavouklis Wolf
Avenue Writer
In September 2011, cartoonists Tom 
Hart and Leela Corman moved from New 
York City to Gainesville with their young 
daughter, Rosalie. Two months later, Ro-
salie died — suddenly and unexpectedly.
“Rosalie Lightning” is a graphic memoir 
by Tom Hart about the untimely death of 
his daughter and the series of tragic events 
and grief that followed. 
The memoir was released in hardcover 
Jan. 12.
“I just wrote to stay sane for a long 
time. I compiled binders and binders full of notes,” Hart said.
Hart, having written books before, 
knew it was likely his notes would eventu-
ally become a book. 
In the comics classes he teaches at both 
UF and at the Sequential Artists Workshop, 
the act of helping something internal ﬁ  nds form externally.
Turning his grief into a book appeared 
to be the best way to make sense of the situation.
In April 2012, Hart began to draw and 
turn the binders full of notes into a book that chronicles Hart’s memories of Rosalie and the journey of grief and rebirth that followed her death.
Wild Iris Books, an independent book-
store in Gainesville, hosted a release party Jan. 15 after “Rosalie Lightning” was re-leased. 
Erica Merrell, co-owner of the book-
store, said when they found out Hart was releasing a book, it was natural for the store to partner with him to hold the re-lease party.
“This was actually one of our ﬁ  rst au-
thor sellings where I totally sold out. We’ve done lots of online orders — I’m even shipping a book to Sweden today,” Merrell said.
“It is one of the bravest, most vulner-
able, beautiful things I have ever read,” Merrell said.
She said she thinks Hart’s honesty about 
grief, confusion, healing and all the pieces of the human condition that come with tragedy is incredibly brave and beautiful. 
Many of the characters in the book are 
people from the Gainesville community.
Hart met his wife in the late 1990s when 
he lived in Gainesville before moving to New York City. Their network of friends in Gainesville was one of the reasons for relocating in 2011.
 It was also their support system dur-
ing their grief. One of Hart’s oldest friends in Gainesville took the couple in for two weeks following Rosalie’s death.
The support and comfort of friendship is 
heavily featured in the book. 
Merrell said much of the book is about 
“how the people around you can help heal you and help bring you back to life essen-tially after something that most of us can’t 
even really wrap our brains around.”
“I’m certainly glad it didn’t happen in 
New York City,” Hart said. “That would 
have been even harder.”
One of the dedications in “Rosalie Light-
ning” is to the couple’s younger daughter, Molly Rose. 
Molly Rose was born after Hart ﬁ  nished 
chapter ﬁ  ve, a series of small panels on 
black pages that don’t have much continu-
ity and are used to portray the worst time in Hart’s grief.
The following chapters about the com-
fort of friendship and rebirth were drawn during the ﬁ  rst months of Molly Rose’s life. 
Hart would draw in their bedroom, sur-
rounded by paper and ink, while his wife tended to their newborn daughter.
Hart ﬁ  nished “Rosalie Lightning” dur-
ing the summer of 2015. It was surprisingly liberating to call it done, Hart said. That day, he went on a bike ride and found him-
self going down streets he had previously 
avoided. 
“I was surprised at how much better I 
felt,” Hart said.
Hart’s previous work in comics was of-
ten funny — nothing as serious as “Rosalie Lightning.”
“I’ve always had a very serious streak, 
which is one reason I think that funny 
comics work so well... I had a sort of seri-
ousness underlying it,” Hart said.
He has some ideas of where he wants 
to go from here. His ideas are lighthearted, but they have a serious core.
“I don’t want to lose the depth of story-
telling I was able to achieve that I achieved here, but I’m not sure exactly what will be next,” Hart said.Cartoonist releases memoir paying tribute to his daughter
LOCAL
“It is one of the bravest, most 
vulnerable, beautiful things I have 
ever read.”
Erica Merrell
co-owner of Wild Iris Books
It is hosting an antique, rare book saleTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Alternative band Bully is bring-
ing their grunge-punk sound to 
Gainesville this weekend.
Bully, a quartet from Nashville, 
has opened for Best Coast, Those 
Darlins and Superchunk, according 
to their website. They are currently on a nationwide tour and will play at the Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival and the Sasquatch! Music Festival later this year.
The band is playing at the At-
lantic, located at 15 N. Main St., on Saturday. Doors open at 9 p.m. 
and will feature opener Palehound. 
Tickets are $10 in advance at Ar-row’s Aim Records, Hear Again Music or the Atlantic’s website. They are $12 at the door.
“They were on tour routing 
through Florida and got in touch to play Atlantic,” Tom Rankine, the promoter for the Atlantic, said. “I’ve 
been a fan for a bit and was excited 
to bring them to Gainesville.”
Rankine said Bully ﬁ  ts in per-
fectly with the atmosphere of the Atlantic, as “they play loud, catchy rock music, which we strongly sup-port.”
He also has one message for the 
audience: “Prepare to have your minds blown.”
Bully released their debut al-
bum, “Feels Like,” in June. Front-woman Alicia Bognanno is a sound engineer who has worked on soundboards in indie clubs and studios for years, according to the band’s site, and she brings that ex-
perience and sound to the stage.
Ana Rojo, a 22-year-old UF jour-
nalism senior, is a big fan of the 
band and can’t wait to see them live Saturday.
“I was actually introduced to 
them last semester by a friend, and I thought they were awesome. So when I saw they were coming, I im-
mediately wanted to go,” she said.
Rojo goes to concerts in 
Gainesville whenever she can and 
loves the diversity of art and music the city provides. She said Bully ﬁ  ts right in with the Gainesville scene.
“I love the band’s sound,” she 
said. “They are like an indie punk/rock band, and I love rock music... 
I was naturally drawn to them, and 
I think the fact that there is a female lead singer in a punk-rock band is pretty rad.”
Sam Speedy, a 21-year-old UF 
telecommunication senior, is also a fan of Bully because of Bognanno’s role as frontwoman.  
“I love the singer’s voice and 
lyrics. She makes great music,” she said. “I always perk up when I hear about a good female-fronted alter-native band, and Bully is an amaz-ing representation of that subsec-
tion of music.”
R.J. Sonbeek said Bully’s “Feels 
Like” album was one of his favorite 
albums of 2015 after he started lis-tening to them last summer.
“I love how brutally honest Ali-
cia Bognanno is in her lyrics,” the 21-year-old UF journalism student said. “Upon ﬁ  rst listen, the lyrics 
sort of reminded me of a female 
version of ‘Pinkerton’ by Weezer.”
Sonbeek said he loves how noth-
ing is off-limits for the band.
“I remember the ﬁ  rst time I lis-
tened to their single ‘I Remember;’ I was ﬂ  oored because of her lyrics,” he said. “Her use of imagery really makes you feel like you can actu-
ally see the situations she’s talking 
about.” Bully to perform at the Atlantic
MEDIOCRE ADVICEChanging majors, senior year
Dear Mediocre,
Is it OK to change my major even if 
my parents disapprove?
- The Good Child
Dear Good Child,There is always one like you. Every 
family, every job and every building has one: the “good child” — or in my words, the doormat. 
There are jobs no one ever really 
wants, and once you have them, you’re 
kind of stuck.
So here’s my advice:
Don’t change your major. Continue 
on the path you’re in. You’ve already come this far. In fact, apply for grad school and spend the next few years accumulating 
more debt than you’re already 
in. It’s OK if you hate the ﬁ  eld you’re going into. Pleasing your folks is far more impor-
tant than your own happiness. 
Cheers,
Mediocre
Dear Mediocre Advice,
I’m panicking.
I just realized it’s my last semester of 
my entire college career. What do I do? How do I handle this? Netﬂ  ix and chill?
- ScrewedDear Screwed,Not to alarm you, but I just 
felt a wave of panic. You re-ally are screwed.
How did you just all of a 
sudden remember it’s your 
last semester? Most people are 
counting down. Did you take your GRE? Have you applied 
for grad school? 
What about loans? You’ll have to 
start paying those off right away because they’re going to start collecting interest.
That’s too much to deal with in just 
a few months.
You should just throw all of that crap to the curb. Throw on a tacky Hawai-ian shirt and crack open a beer. After all, these are the last few months you 
can drink and sleep-in every day with no 
real-world consequence. 
Buuuut, if anything, you could al-
ways do a last minute change-of-major 
and tack on a few extra semesters. More 
debt, but it’s worth another football sea-son.
Good luck,Mediocre
Send your questions to mediocre.alliga-
tor.advice@gmail.com and together we’ll 
ﬁ  nd solutions to your dilemmas and have 
some fun along the way. 
Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
ABOVE:
Bully is performing on Saturday at the Atlantic . Doors open 
at 9 p.m., and tickets are $10 in advance or $12 at the door. 
RIGHT:
 Alicia Bognanno, a former sound engineer, is the band’s lead singer and songwriter. 
 Courtesy to the Alligator
THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   2-3-16-20-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-1298 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
In need of a reliable worker to clean of-fices/homes/apts M,T,TH,F(after 5p) Sat &Sun(time varies) must have reliable transportation and be willing to drive to Morriston,Williston,Jonesville area...weekly pay 8.25/hr (gas will be distributed weekly)...must pass a background/drug check If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868   1-28-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Backyard Water is seeking vibrant and en-ergetic retail personnel for its Gainesville store. We will train you in pool chemistry. 30+ hours per week. Apply in person – 7100 W University Ave (behind Home Depot).    1-28-16-5-14Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life. A Gainesville start-up company is looking for a co-founder. This is a commit-ment. There are great benefits if the compa-ny succeeds. No one can predict what those might be. Send contact info and resume to info@overlandats.com.    1-29-16-6-14
WAIT STAFF NEEDED
Experienced only. Leonardo's Millhopper - 
4131 NW 16th Blvd, Gville.   2-2-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida womens tennis 
team defeated USF 6-1 on Wednesday. Read the story on pg. 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida football player to miss Senior Bowl with injury
Florida tight end Jake McGee suffered a hamstring injury on Wednesday 
during a practice for the Senior Bowl. McGee will not participate in the game, which will be held on Jan. 30.THE CENTER FOULED OUT WITH  
LESS THAN TWO MINUTES LEFT 
ON TUESDAY.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
 
In basketball, size matters.
Florida has the size in 6-foot-11 starting 
center John Egbunu, but he’s not much help 
when he’s planted on the bench because of foul trouble.
Egbunu’s backups, Kevarrius Hayes and 
Schuyler Rimmer, also have size. 
Their issue is inexperience.In the Gators’ 60-59 loss Tuesday night 
at Vanderbilt, Florida faced a Commodores 
team with perhaps the best defensive front-
court in the Southeastern Conference. The 
loss exposed the Gators’ lack of production from their big men when they were plagued with foul trouble.
At the 11:28 mark of the first half, Eg-
bunu drew his second personal foul of the game with Florida (13-7, 5-3 SEC) down 11-9. Egbunu sat the rest of the first half, re-placed by the rotating tandem of Hayes and 
Rimmer.
Hayes, a 6-foot-9 freshman, finished 0-of-
3 from the field with five rebounds, one 
block and three personal fouls. Rimmer, a 6-foot-10 junior transfer from Stanford who attempted just nine shots in his only full season with the Cardinal and averaged 0.5 Florida hindered by Egbunu's foul trouble in loss
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
John Egbunu grabs a rebound during Florida's 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Arkansas’ season has been 
enigmatic. 
After a brutal non-conference 
performance that saw them go 
6-8, the Razorbacks have man-aged to compile an impres-sive Southeastern Conference record, including three wins 
against ranked teams.
Most of the credit for their 
turnaround falls on the shoul-
ders of junior forward Jessica Jackson.
When the Florida women’s 
basketball team took on Geor-gia earlier this season, UF head coach Amanda Butler opined that it was difficult to prepare 
for the Bulldogs because they featured several players who 
could be difference makers.
Butler likely didn’t have that 
problem when scouting the Ra-
zorbacks.
When the Gators (16-4, 4-3 
Southeastern Conference) take 
the court against Arkansas (9-11, 4-3 SEC) at 8 p.m. in Fay-
etteville, it’s no secret that the 
Razorbacks will turn to Jackson to lead them to victory.
On offense, Jackson leads 
Arkansas with 17.3 points per game and is third in the confer-ence with 17.1 points per SEC game.
Florida’s leading scorer is 
Ronni Williams with 10.8 points per game, and three more Gators appear on the conference lead-erboard before the next Razor-back (Devin Cosper with 8.7).
Jackson also leads Arkan-
sas with a 33-percent clip from three and shoots 75 percent from the charity stripe. 
But her influence doesn’t 
stop on offense.
On the other end of the floor, 
she leads the Razorbacks with 4.8 defensive rebounds per 
game as well as in blocked shots 
with 1.2 per game. 
“They’ve got one of the best 
players in the league in Jessica 
Jackson,” Butler said. 
While Jackson has been pro-
lific, the team as a whole has 
not been.
Arkansas’ 11 losses feature 
defeats at the hands of un-ranked, un-touted opponents in South Dakota State, Louisiana-Lafayette and Missouri State. 
Yet, in SEC play, three of Ar-Women's basketball to face Arkansas
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
 
Mike White knew his team 
would have trouble shooting.
So, when Florida’s coach saw 
an open Chris Chiozza holding the ball behind the three-point line in the second half, White 
yelled at his sophomore guard 
from the bench.
“Shoot the ball, shoot the 
ball,” White said after the game. “I wish two or three of those 
times, he would’ve just shot it.”
Instead, Chiozza pump faked, 
drove into the paint and passed 
out to a teammate on the perim-
eter, who missed a jump shot.
In Florida’s 60-59 loss to 
Vanderbilt on Tuesday, made shots were few and far between.
By halftime, the Gators had 
gone 0-for-10 from three-point 
range and shot 
21.2 percent from the field, 
three days after shooting higher than 50-percent in both catego-ries at the break 
against Auburn.
After UF’s loss to Vanderbilt, 
White credited the Commodores’ 
defense, particularly its 7-foot-1 
rim protector Luke Kornet.
“When they make you drive 
it, you’re driving it in there to 
7-footers with length, and then UF offense struggles 
on road against VandyBoth teams are 4-3 in SECSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 19
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 19 SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 19White
MEN'S BASKETBALL NOTEBOOKBy Jake Dreilinger
Staff Writer
Coming off an impressive showing in 
doubles, sophomore Anna Danilina took 
the court for a singles match for the first 
time as a Gator. 
What followed was pure domination by 
the Moscow, Russia, native.
Only dropping one game to her oppo-
nent, Danilina picked up the first singles 
point of the season and helped No. 3 Flor-ida win its season opener against USF 6-1.
“It was an amazing experience for me. 
I’m trying to improve every match,” Dani-
lina said. 
“I think I did a good job today, like ev-
eryone. 
By that time, the Gators had jumped out 
to an early lead. 
The No. 50-ranked duo of senior Brian-
na Morgan and Danilina swept USF’s Vera 
Bessonova and Juliana Cardosa 6-0. 
Spencer Liang and Peggy Porter earned 
a victory against Nicole Dzenga and Vanja Klaric after dropping the first game, win-ning 6-2 and giving the Gators the doubles point.
The No. 5-ranked tandem of Brooke 
Austin and Kourtney Keegan edged out a victory over USF’s Jessica Cortes Chaves and Olga Martinez, winning a close 6-4 match.
“I thought we played really well in 
doubles. I was curious to see if how we looked in practice would come out when we played,” coach Roland Thornqvist said.  
“I think we lost the first game on two 
of the courts. ... But we really turned it 
around and played great tennis.” 
No. 110-ranked Danilina extended the 
Gators’ lead to 2-0, swiftly defeating Car-
dosa 6-0, 6-1. No. 56-ranked Josie Kuhl-man defeated Cortes Chavez 6-2, 6-1 to bring the Gators one point from a victory.
In the third singles match, No. 25-ranked 
Keegan struggled early, unable to take a commanding lead over USF’s Ana Roman Dominguez.
But after taking a 3-2 lead in the first 
set, Keegan won the match 6-3, 6-1, clinch-ing Florida’s first victory of the season.“The only thing I could think about for 
the match was to not let the whole team down,” Danilina said.  “So I was super ner-
vous for it, but I hope I did a good job.”
No. 73 Liang won the first set over 
Bessonova 6-2 without once giving up the 
lead. The second set saw Liang down 5-4. 
Winning the next three sets in a close fin-
ish, Liang captured the win.
Quickly dropping the first set, Porter 
took the second set 6-3 and looked to have some momentum on her side. But after going up 3-2 over Klaric, Por-
ter couldn’t hold on, losing 6-1, 3-6, 6-4.
In the night’s closest match, No. 3 Be-
linda Woolcock took on Olga Martinez. 
Both players were neck-and-neck in the 
first set, which saw three ties and two lead changes. 
In the end, it was Woolcock who came 
out on top, winning 7-5, 6-4.
“I think everyone is pretty nervous, but 
we always go out into a match thinking it’s just another match, not just a first match,” Keegan said. 
The Gators take the court again on Feb. 
4 against in-state rival Florida State in Tal-lahassee at 4 p.m.
“Win or lose, we are going to come back 
out tomorrow, Friday, and next week and practice and hash everything out again,” 
Keegan said. 
“We had a lot of fun, it was great. Even 
though we were a bit nervous, we were 
able to get out the jitters.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator StaffCredit
The Florida women’s tennis team huddles prior to their 6-1 win over USF on 
Wednesday at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Gators tennis earns impressive season-opening win over Bulls
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida sophomore Anna Danilina returns a ball during UF’s win over USF on Wednesday.Danilina won her doubles and singles matches
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida junior Spencer Liang returns a ball during UF’s 6-1 win over USF on Wednesday at the Ring T ennis Complex.points and 0.7 rebounds in 16 games, finished 0-of-1 
from the field with one rebound.
Egbunu eventually fouled out of the game with 
1:50 to play and the Gators trailing 52-46. He finished with just two points and four rebounds.
White said after the game that Egbunu wasn’t as 
involved in the game nearly as much as Florida needs him to be.
“He just got into foul trouble,” White said shaking 
his head. “We need to have him out there on the floor more.”
As of Wednesday, Egbunu leads the SEC with 68 
personal fouls. Florida needs him to cut down on foul-ing because they need him on the floor – he’s a dif-ference maker.
The Commodores’ 7-footer Damian Jones and 7-foot-1 Luke Kornet wreaked havoc on Florida, espe-cially with Egbunu out of the game. Jones scored 20 points, grabbed 12 rebounds and blocked two shots while Kornet tallied six blocks and nine rebounds. 
The duo overpowered  the Gators. White also 
stressed that he was especially unhappy with his team at the free throw line, not for missing shots but for missing rebounds.
“Free throw line blockouts killed us,” White said. “Got to do a much better job of that. But it’s easier 
said than done to block out Damian Jones.”
In Florida’s three straight wins before falling to 
Vanderbilt, Egbunu drew just eight combined fouls in 81 total minutes played. His five fouls in 23 minutes Tuesday night hurt the Gators’ cause.
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgyou pitch it to guys who may not 
be as good a shooter as you,” 
White said. “They’re just really 
good defensively. You don’t have a lot of time, you don’t have a lot of space.”
Behind Kornet, who leads 
the Southeastern Conference in blocks at 3.3 per game, Vander-bilt’s defense suffocated Florida for the first half and much of the 
second half, amassing nine blocks 
and holding UF to its worst shoot-ing night of the season.
But despite VU’s stingy de-
fense, the Gators managed to get 
off 70 shots, tied for their second-
most this season.
“It’s crazy. Crazy. We took 26 
more shots (than Vanderbilt),” 
White said. “It was an odd game. 
An ugly game.”
Allen comes in clutch: Overlooked in the loss was the effort and clutch play of freshman guard KeVaughn Allen, who sin-gle-handedly kept Florida in the game with under a minute left.
At the 32 second mark and 
with UF trailing 55-48, Allen made his first three-pointer of the night.
Eight seconds later, Allen 
drove into the body of Vander-bilt’s 7-foot center Damian Jones, faded backwards and hit a jump-er off the backboard to draw UF 
closer.
Allen made another three with 
eight seconds remaining and fol-
lowed with a three-pointer at the 
buzzer to draw Florida within one 
point as the clock expired.
Allen finished with 16 points 
on 6-of-12 shooting and added two steals. Since the start of SEC 
play, the freshman is averaging 
13.9 points per game on 47.1-per-cent shooting. 
On Monday, he was named to the Wayman Tisdale Award’s midseason watch list, a recog-nition given to the nation’s top freshman at the end of the year.
Leon suffers head injury:Junior forward Justin Leon 
went down with an injury early in Tuesday night’s loss to Vander-
bilt. After an elbow hit him in the 
head, Leon was brought back to Florida’s locker room and ruled out for the remainder of the game.
Leon is averaging 4.9 points 
and 2.6 rebounds per game, but since taking over as a starter against Georgia on Jan. 2, the ju-nior is averaging 9.7 points per 
game and shooting 62.8 percent 
from the field.
“I don’t want to assume any-
thing,” White said of Leon’s in-jury on Tuesday. “He got hit in 
the head and he didn’t feel very 
well.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida's players huddle on the sideline during UF's 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23. 
The Gators took 70 shots in the game After Arkansas, UF will 
face three top-12 teams
Egbunu leads SEC with 68 personal fouls
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Ronni Williams puts up a layup during Florida's 53-45 win over 
LSU on Jan. 17.
W-HOOPS,  from pg 17NOTEBOOK,  from pg 17
HOOPS,  from pg 17kansas’ four wins have come 
against ranked opponents. 
Arkansas opened conference 
play with five straight games against ranked opponents.
The Gators find themselves 
in the midst a similar stretch now, as their next three games after Arkansas will be against opponents ranked No. 12 or higher.
However, Butler isn’t con-
cerned with where Arkansas or the teams to come are ranked. 
“When you’re playing an 
SEC team, you’re playing one of the best teams in the country,” she said. 
“Whether they’ve got a num-
ber by their name or not.”
Both teams are coming off 
losses, with Arkansas losing to Auburn in overtime and Flori-da losing to Missouri when its 
fourth-quarter comeback fell 
short. 
The Gators have earned a 
reputation as a team that plays best in the fourth quarter this 
season. 
But they have also learned 
that their strategy of coming 
back late doesn’t always pan out.
Butler, though, says that be-
ing scrappy until the end is still part of Florida's identity. 
“I don’t think our team 
thinks of themselves any differ-ently because of one outcome,” she said.
“I think you’ve gotta look 
at our total body of work and what we’ve been able to do in many games as opposed to what happens in one game.”
Consistent with the day-by-
day approach she’s preached all year, Butler is excited to get the chance to pick up a win against Arkansas.
“It’s important that we play 
well at Arkansas and do our dadgum best to beat Arkansas because they’re Arkansas — a team in the SEC,” she said. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org“When you’re playing an 
SEC team, you’re playing 
one of the best teams in the 
country. Whether they’ve got 
a number by their name or 
not.”
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coach20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
The No. 7 Florida lacrosse 
team was picked to win its sec-
ond consecutive Big East title in the 2016 Preseason Coaches’ Poll, announced by the conference Wednesday afternoon.
The Gators garnered 46 total 
points in the poll, getting six of the eight total ﬁ  rst-place votes. No. 24 Connecticut, which re-ceived 44 total points in the pre-season poll, lost to Florida in the 2015 Big East Tournament title game and will play the Gators to close out its 2015 regular season conference schedule.
Florida notched a Big East-
leading ﬁ  ve selections in the preseason all-conference team, including three of the nine total unanimous selections. 
Senior attacker Devon Schnei-
der, junior midﬁ  elder Mollie Ste-vens and junior defender Caro-line Fitzgerald were the Gators’ unanimous selections, with ju-nior attacker Sammi Burgess and junior defender Taylor Bresnahan rounding out the rest of the Flor-ida preseason All-Big East repre-sentatives. 
Stevens, Schneider and Bur-
gess are three of the top four leading point scorers from last season who are currently on the UF roster.
The Gators kick off their regu-
lar season with a Feb. 6  home match against Loyola at noon and begin Big East conference play in Gainesville on March 26 against Vanderbilt at noon.
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgUF lacrosse projected to win Big East
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mollie Stevens runs toward the net during Florida’s loss to North Carolina last season.
UF won the conference title last season
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Devon Schneider (center) celebrates with teammates after a goal during Florida’s game against Georgetown last season. 
