We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 121 FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
Florida baseball opens SEC 
play against Missouri tonight
Logan Shore will get the start, pg. 27
Research Roundup
Cavities, algae and lasers, pg. 5
Combining visual arts and dance
The Harn hosts its first Harn Museum of Dance on 
Saturday, pg. 10The Bard in the boy: unity 
through Shakespeare in the Park
Check out the proﬁ  le and photos, pg. 3
BOYS ABUSED AT 
REFORM SCHOOL 
SEEK JUSTICE.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Three blackberries were 
worth 30 whips.
That was the price of hunger 
for Bryant E. Middleton.
He was 14. 
It was a typical punishment 
for students in Florida School 
for Boys in Marianna, Florida, 
most recently known as Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys.
“My thought at that point and 
time was ‘My God, what have I 
gotten myself into?’” Middleton, 
now 70, said as he recalled his time spent at the school.  
At a school intended to pro-
vide an education to juvenile de-linquents, Middleton became a survivor as his classmates went missing and suffered abuse at the hands of state workers. Yet even as Marianna resi-
dents and state ofﬁ  cials deny the horror in their backyard, 
Senate Bill 708 sits on Gov. Rick 
Scott’s desk — a bill that would offer the courtesy of burial to the families of the lost boys. 
But for Middleton, now a 
resident of Gainesville, the city where he found safety, no amount of money can erase the years of abuse.
“They stole our hope. They 
took away our dignity. They frightened us every single day,” he said. “These weren’t con-
victs. These were children. And 
they allowed it to happen.”
      
Middleton’s smart mouth got 
him sent to the Florida School for Boys.
When his mother put him 
before a judge to scare him, he said he didn’t want to go home.
The judge leaned across his  A survivor’s tale
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Joe Rojo was turned away from 
giving blood Thursday afternoon.
The director of international 
programs for the Heavener School of Business walked through the rain to attend Pride Awareness Month’s ﬁ  rst Gay Blood Drive. UF students donated blood on behalf of gay and bisexual men. More than 20 people donated blood by 
Century Tower, said Jacob Do-
lins, a UF biology and nutritional sciences freshman.
Rojo said he couldn’t donate 
due to his sexual orientation.
According to a 1992 memoran-
dum by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, men who have had sex with other men couldn’t donate blood due to the risk of HIV. In December 2015, the FDA updated its recommendation to apply to those who have had sex with other men in the past 12 
months.
“It’s crazy,” Rojo said. “I know 
there’s a need for blood, and I 
know I’m healthy.”
Dolins said the new recom-
mendation isn’t enough. He said the 12-month ban excludes cou-ples and men who know their HIV status.
“It’s a step in the right direc-
tion, but it’s by no means sub-stantial,” the 19-year-old said. “Because this ban still exists, it allows for stereotypes like ‘gays 
have AIDS’ to continue to thrive.”
Members of PAM stood under 
 Students give blood for LGBTQ+ people who aren’t allowedAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
SHAKESPEARE IN THE PARK
Lucas Sanders, a 19-year-old UF computer engineering freshman, performs a selected scene from Shake-
speare’s “Much Ado About Nothing, ” as Benedick alongside Sarah Emily Hall, a 20-year-old UF psychology sophomore, as Beatrice in the Library West Breezeway on Thursday.  See the story and photos on pg. 3
HEALTH
SEE BLOOD,  PAGE 4SEE DOZIER,  PAGE 8
“It’s a step in the right 
direction, but it’s by no means 
substantial.” 
Jacob Dolins
UF biology and nutritional 
sciences freshmanBy Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Comedian Trevor Noah is coming 
to UF. 
Noah, who hosts “The Daily Show,” 
will speak at the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts on March 30 at 8 
p.m., said Kevin Gerson, the chairman of UF’s Accent Speakers Bureau. Noah 
will be paid $90,000 to perform stand-up comedy and answer questions.  
Gerson said students have request-
ed Noah since he took over “The Daily Show” in September 2015. Accent has 
been planning to bring him since the 
beginning of this semester.
Noah, 32, has an incredible story, having grown up in South Africa’s apartheid with a black mother and white father, he said.
“He grew up in a world where free 
speech was illegal, where stand-up comedy was illegal,” Gerson said.
The event is free for both students 
and the general public, he said. Stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards can get two tickets at noon March 29. If tick-ets are left over, the general public can get up to two tickets starting at noon March 30. Tickets will be available at the Phillips Center Box Ofﬁ  ce.
Carlos Suhr, a UF aerospace engi-
neering sophomore, said he is excited to see a comedian come to UF. 
“I wanted UF to bring a comedian 
to campus,” the 20-year-old said. 
He said he saw the event on Face-
book and knew he would go. 
“I just think that he’s a pretty good 
comedian,” he said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org ‘Daily Show’ host Trevor Noah to perform at UF 
 He will come on March 30
Noah
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Carmina Burana
“O Fortuna.” Oh fate! With a 
rousing clash of cymbals, the ballet begins an odyssey from Adam and Eve to Armageddon 
through the story of defrocked 
monks. UF’s Symphony Orchestra, UF’s Concert Choir and the Gainesville Civic Chorus, with guest vocalists, bring this magnificent produc-tion to a fever pitch and end this 50th Anniversary season with a resounding bang. Shows 
are Friday at 7:30 p.m. and 
Saturday at 2 p.m. This event is $17 for students and $32 for seniors. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu/in-the-loop/events/carmina-burana.
‘Blood Ties’
“Blood Ties,” an art show and 
performance art showcase, 
will be held Saturday at the Superfun! gallery and perfor-mance space at 2033 NW Sixth St., between 2 p.m. and 2 a.m., with a reception at 6 p.m. The show is a fusion of visual dis-plays and unique performance art in which creators use their 
bodies and voices to make 
art. UF students and alumni in sculpture, painting, literary arts and anthropology will be presenting their work. Students of the Sequential Artists Workshop, a local comics and cartooning school, will be live-sketching scenes that ac-
tors and puppets interact with. 
Themes of the show include recovery, identity and compas-sion; the show creates dialogue about sexual assault, domestic violence, gender-based and ra-cial discrimination and bully-ing. Donations will be accepted at the door. This event is part 
of Red Soul Days, a semi-an-
nual pop-up art series to stop violence. All proceeds from this event go to Peaceful Paths and the River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding.
Submit your art to Luminaire 
by Sunday
Submissions are open now for 
Luminaire, an art showcase hosted by the Student Honors Organization. Show off your talent and display your work at the Reitz Union Breezeway on Wednesday and March 27. Three eligible winning artists will be awarded a total of $750 
in scholarship prizes by the 
UF Honors Program. Sketches, sculptures, videos, graphic de-signs, photographs and more are welcomed — just remem-ber to submit before Sunday. For more information or to sign up now, visit luminaireuf.wix.com/artshow.
RecSports Gator Open Climb
Reach new heights at Lake 
Wauburg with Gator Open 
Climb. The new High Ropes and Elements Challenge Course will be open to students for free Sunday. Registration is open on RSConnect.recsports.ufl.edu. For more information, visit recsports.ufl.edu/events/gator-open-climb.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 121
HIGH  81° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Lucas Sanders thought his pas-
sion for acting would end after he 
graduated high school.
This week, Sanders joined a UF 
acting group in the glow of a lava 
lamp, set in front of a stage on the 
Plaza of the Americas.
Sanders joined Shakespeare 
in the Park in September, when the group started practicing for “Twelfth Night,” which premiered Thursday night.
As he donned skinny jeans, a 
beanie, a plaid flannel and a shirt 
that read “Got Pizza?” his passion 
for acting lived on.
Despite his responsibilities in 
the UF Honors Program, two engi-neering clubs and everyday class-es, Sanders makes time to act.
“I’ve done theater since middle 
school. I’ve done musicals, acting class — I knew that I wasn’t going 
to be able to pursue it professional-
ly or anything,” Sanders said. “It’s just because I enjoy it.”
•   •   •
Sanders was born in Luxem-
bourg on Sept. 7, 1996.
His family traveled stateside 
when Sanders was two, following his dad’s consulting job to Chicago.
The price of living rose through-
out the next 13 years, and Sanders relocated once again — this time to St. Augustine.
“It was really difficult, because 
my whole family was ready for a move and I don’t know that I was,” Sanders said.
Life restarted at Allen D. Nease 
High School, where Sanders soon met new friends and joined the the-ater program.
Though he didn’t relocate every 
other year like others do, Sanders said, the move to Florida took its toll.  
“That one move was a life-al-
tering thing for me,” he said. “Just 
being in a new place and starting from square one with who I knew, 
who I could talk to,” he said.
•   •   •
While auditions for “Twelfth 
Night” started in September, Alison Sigalow started preparing almost a year ago.
Sigalow, a 20-year-old UF el-
ementary education junior and one of the show’s directors, said she has never missed a rehearsal.
“I’m in charge of props, cos-
tumes, the stage — most of it,” she said.
Forty-two people auditioned 
this year, Sigalow said, and only 15 were cast.
Sanders is the only freshman in 
the show.
He said the group started re-
hearsing the moment Sigalow as-signed roles, and their efforts be-came more intense as the debut approached.
To the cast, it’s all worth it.“The show gets better each time 
we do it,” Sanders said.
Monday, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, the cast and directors prac-ticed on the Plaza of the Americas every night from 5 p.m. until up to 10 p.m.
They first set up a large white 
curtain between two trees. Along with the lava lamp on stage right, 
the directors aligned candles in 
Mason jars, creating an area where their story could unfold.
“It’s been amazing,” Siga-
low said Monday. “The cast has worked so, so hard and everyone has brought so much to the table that I just can’t wait for it all to come together this weekend.”
Before rehearsing the two-hour 
script, including gestures and in-flection, the actors walked in cir-
cles and projected lines from the 
show to warm up.
Even in his favorite place, Sand-
ers said he felt the responsibilities of school creeping into his mind.
“I got really involved my first 
year, and I can feel like the crush-ing weight of it, you know?” Sand-ers said.
Sanders said he can bear the 
weight.
“It’s crunch time.”
•   •   •
“Twelfth Night” is Abigail Hum-
mel’s last show with Shakespeare in the Park.
Hummel, a 21-year-old UF biol-
ogy senior and the group’s presi-
dent, said acting with her peers 
completed the college experience.
“It’s been the one thing that I’ve 
stuck with the entire time,” she said. “I’ve made some of my clos-est friends through Shakespeare in the Park, and I’ve had some incred-ible opportunities to perform.”
She said the group is a family, 
and that everyone is happy to see it grow.
“It’s a friendly, loving, support-
ive environment, so if you have any interest in acting at all, we love newcomers,” Hummel said.
Sanders said he remembers 
meeting the group members as a freshman and how quickly they 
became some of his closest friends.
“I found it really accepting,” 
Sanders said. “I didn’t feel like the 
odd one out for not being a theatre major,” he said.
His journey began at UF Pre-
view, where someone mentioned a student-run club that performed Shakespearean shows once a year.
He emailed the club sponsor 
in Fall, and his audition soon fol-
lowed.
“I went to auditions, got the 
part and that was it,” he said.  
The move from Chicago to St. 
Augustine prepared Sanders for the 
transition to UF, and theater only made his experience easier.
“It was something that I’ve al-
ways really enjoyed. I love watch-ing it, and I love bringing it to life 
when I can,” Sanders said.
•   •   •
Rain soaked the group’s stage 
Thursday, but the show went on.They relocated the backdrop 
and stage to the Library West 
breezeway, later lying down blue 
tarps for the audience to sit on.
About 30 people and a dog 
named Lily watched from the audi-
ence as Sanders and his castmates performed the comedy.
Rain fell from each side of the 
stage.
President Hummel said Aman-
da Bynes’ movie “She’s the Man” 
is based on “Twelfth Night,” in 
which Hummel played the main character, Viola, on Thursday. 
“She is a rich, collegiate donor’s 
daughter who gets shipwrecked in Illyria and has to disguise her-self as a man and join a frat in or-der to preserve herself in the new school,” she said.
Knowing their audience, Shake-
speare in the Park adjusted the show’s theme to make it more col-lege-oriented.
As Hummel’s character dis-
guised herself among a group of men in togas, four others played beer pong in the background.
Before the show started, Sand-
ers sat on the ground and read the lines of his character, Fabian.
“I definitely always try to find 
a little bit of myself in whatever character I’m doing,” he said. “I think Fabian is like, a little sassy, a little sidekick-y — those are all things I can do well.”
A few minutes before the open-ing scene, the group huddled to-gether behind the curtain. Sanders said he was excited to see their 
work come together.
“I don’t get nervous, I get bet-
ter,” he said, laughing.
Sigalow channeled her excite-
ment and encouraged the cast.
“My heart is beating so fast right 
now,” she said. “You guys have 
earned this. You deserve this.”
The actors then bounced from 
side to side and said “One, two, three, Shakespeare!”
“Twelfth Night” runs through 
the weekend, with performances Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 1 p.m.
As his freshman year comes to 
a close, Sanders said he has no regrets about his time with Shake-
speare in the Park. He plans on do-
ing it again next year.
Sanders said he originally 
planned to focus on his major and graduate in the quickest way pos-sible.
Can someone be happy while 
tackling 18-credit semesters and outside responsibilities? Maybe, 
Sanders said, but there are other 
options.
“I had never thought that in 
college you could continue to do things you love.”
@Mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Kyle Clavier, a 22-year-old UF environmental engineering senior, claps during Shakespeare in the Park’s 
first performance of 2016. This year, the club is performing the Shakespearean comedy “Twelfth Night. ”
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Lucas Sanders, middle top, puts his hand in a huddle before Shake-speare in the Park’s first performance. Sanders portrayed the char-acter of Fabian in Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” to an audience of about 30 on Thursday night.
The Bard in the boy: unity through Shakespeare in the Park4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
a tent sheltered from the rain 
while giving donors water, Ga-torade, fruit snacks and granola 
bars. Dolins said the group will 
double the amount of blood given to show how many people could have donated if the ban 
did not exist. He said if the ban 
didn’t exist, 40 could have do-
nated.
“Considering the torrential 
downpour, we did get a good amount of participation,” he said. “There’s plenty of people at this school who can’t do-
nate.”
Emily McCreary, a UF finance 
freshman, said she was donat-
ing blood to support Dolins. She 
was worried about passing out 
as a needle was pushed into her arm.
“I always think ‘Oh, girls 
shouldn’t be afraid of blood be-
cause we see it every month,’ but watching it come out of your 
arm is different,” the 18-year-old said.
McCreary, a member of PAM, 
said HIV/AIDS should not be as-
sociated with queer men.
“It’s an archaic stereotype,” 
she said. “It’s not just an issue 
for queer men, it’s an issue for 
the nation.”
She said she had passed out 
after giving blood before, but 
she was happy to do it again.
“Pain is temporary; karma is 
forever,” she said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgBLOOD,  from pg 1The ban prevents some 
men from donating blood
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Emily McCreary, an 18-year-old UF finance freshman, donates 
blood on behalf of gay and bisexual men as part of Pride Aware-ness Month’s first Gay Blood Drive on Thursday.
By Cassandra Alamilla
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF class is beautifying build-
ings across campus.
Esperanza Hincapie, a 22-year-
old UF visual art studies senior, 
painted a mural on the wall of the first-floor hallway of Little Hall on Sunday. The mural is one of 12 created across campus by art 
students in the class Site Specific 
Painting, said Julia Morrisroe, an associate professor in UF’s School of Art + Art History. 
In the class, students create 
art that interacts with the archi-tecture, she said. For the proj-ect, they created pieces of art on 
buildings and objects around UF, 
including the Fine Arts courtyard and Innovation Square.
Hincapie said she decided to 
create a mural at Little Hall be-cause she noticed the space was dull. It was the first time permis-sion was given to put art on Little Hall.
Her mural was inspired by Par-
kinson’s disease, a neurosystem disorder that affects motor skills. 
When conducting Parkinson’s 
research, doctors use activity sensors to collect data, she said. These reflect light.
“I took those reflections and 
created a line work from them, a 
connect-the-dot type thing,” Hin-
capie said.
Hincapie said she’s proud of 
her work. She said she hopes stu-
dents at Little Hall notice and ap-
preciate it.
“I think it really brightens the 
dark places, especially at night” she said. “It brings it out a lot 
with the lights that turn on.”
She said she’s not sure how 
long the mural will be up. The 
department of mathematics will 
decide when to take it down.
Oicenth Josephs, the facili-
ties manager for the School of 
Art + Art History, coordinated the placement of the art in the 
different spaces. For the mural, 
Josephs got permission from the department of mathematics. 
“The departments appreciate 
the fact that our students are do-ing their artwork, and it’s part of their education to get this expo-sure,” she said.Students paint murals on UF buildings
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Andraya Mendez plans to add another plant to 
the half-dozen succulents and flowers already in her apartment. 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens will host its 26th 
annual Spring Garden Festival on Saturday and Sun-day, when residents can find about 140 booths and activities for both adults and children, Alexis Caf-
frey, the garden’s director, said. 
“I mean, I think I’ll like the atmosphere,” Men-
dez, a 21-year-old UF plant science junior, said. “It’s 
not just plants, it’s also activities you can do.”  
This year’s event is centered around a bamboo 
garden theme, said Alexis Caffrey. As of press time, more than 600 people RSVP’d on the event’s Face-book page. 
Components of the event, such as the flower 
show and children’s area, will incorporate bamboo, she said. The festival also includes a plant auction from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday.
In the children’s area, kids will have the oppor-
tunity to pot plants and construct bee homes from 
bamboo plants, Caffrey said.“All of the plant vendors do really well,” she 
said. “Some people are into tropical, others are into 
fruit trees — there isn’t one that stands out.”
Jamie Lynn, a 21-year-old UF political science 
senior, said her back patio is covered by a flower garden. 
“I like the way you can have fun with plants,” 
she said. “They can give a room a completely differ-ent look depending on what you plant.” Kanapaha Gardens holds 26th 
annual Spring Garden Festival Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
The pictured mural on the wall of the first-floor hallway of Little 
Hall was painted by Esperanza Hincapie, a 22-year-old UF visual art studies senior, on Sunday. It is one of 12 created throughout cam-pus by art students in the Site Specific Painting class.
KANAPAHA BOTANICAL GARDENS
4700 SW 58th DRIVE
PRICE
• $8 adults
• $5 children (3 to 13)
• Free for children under 3 
OFF-SITE PARKING AND SHUTTLE SERVICE 
• Saturday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
• Sunday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. LOCALThere are 12 across campus
“I always think ‘Oh, girls 
shouldn’t be afraid of blood 
because we see it every 
month,’ but watching it come 
out of your arm is different.”
Emily McCreary
UF finance freshmanFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
 RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Bacteria found to possibly prevent cavities 
UF Health researchers have found a possible way to pre-
vent cavities.
Researchers found that a type of bacteria could be given 
orally, such as in a pill or toothpaste, to prevent cavities. 
These form when the pH, or acidic level, in the mouth de-
creases.
The UF College of Dentistry’s Robert Burne, the associ-
ate dean for research and chair of UF’s Department of Oral 
Biology, and Marcelle Nascimento, an associate professor in UF’s Department of Restorative Dental Sciences, became interested in preventing pH levels from falling after ﬁ  nding two compounds that raise pH rapidly: urea and arginine. 
“One of the things that we predicted was that as you de-
velop cavities, you would lose bacteria that could help keep 
the pH neutral,” Burne said. 
They studied adults’ and children’s mouths and found 
those with healthy mouths produced ammonia, which con-
trols the pH level. They found that a new bacteria, A12, stabilized negative bacteria in mouths, he said.
Dr. Burne said he hopes the research helps with manag-
ing cavities.
“It would hopefully change the way dentists manage the 
disease rather than immediately having to go to surgical in-
tervention,” he said.
- Alexa LorenzoAlgae able to replace traditional biofuels
Researchers have found that algae burns cleaner than 
traditional biofuels, such as ethanol, which is made from 
corn.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences research-
ers found that oil extracted from algae can be converted 
to biofuel, or fuel made from organic matter, said Bala 
Rathinasabapathi, a professor in UF’s Horticultural Sciences Department.
“We think biofuel has a lot of potential,” Rathinasa-
bapathi said. “Algal cells are excellent resources for biofuel.”
To extract the oils from algae, researchers had to starve 
the algae of nitrogen, he said. When deprived, algae pro-duces more oils.
Rathinasabapathi said we can easily get algae from water 
in Florida because of the state’s variety of freshwater lakes, rivers and springs. This makes it easier to use algae over other species.
Algae is cleaner because it does not require the land that 
other biofuels require to grow, he said. It can be grown us-ing salt water and wastewater from sewage.
“We are hoping that some of our research will help us 
design a new type of algae by engineering certain genes that will create strains that are useful for us,” said Rathinasa-
bapathi.
- Ainesey FoiraBy Anne Marie T amburro
Alligator Contributing Writer
In a cemetery outside of Gainesville, some-
one deserted three bright-eyed kittens in 2015.
A woman found Odin, Ogden and Ollie in 
a 5-gallon bucket and later dropped them off 
at the Alachua County Humane Society with a 
$100 donation and a list of health issues, said 
Kate Gallalee, the humane society’s adoption and foster coordinator.
The organization recently started announc-
ing the emergence of kitten season, Gallalee 
said, which began in March and varies each 
year depending on what month is the warmest.
The “O-Litter” was nursed to health by a 
foster family and later adopted, and Gallalee said she wants the same for other kittens this year.
Margot Wilder, the director of development for the humane society, said thousands of kit-tens need similar care during kitten season. As the temperature rises, so does friskiness, and 
overpopulation becomes a problem for shelters.
Along with cash donations, she said the 
shelter needs kitten milk replacer, heating pads, 
syringes and other supplies.
The shelter also hopes more residents will 
foster or permanently adopt a kitten or two.
Audrey Garrison, the executive director of Operation Catnip, said one UF veterinary stu-dent fosters up to 15 cats.
“She’s a sucker for a sad story, and she is 
one of many,” Garrison said.  
Still, even in the midst of kitten season, feral 
cats are often spayed or neutered through pro-grams such as Operation Catnip, and they pose no risk to Gainesville residents, she said.
“They’re part of the environment,” said Gar-
rison.Shelters seek support during abundant kitten season
Lasers could be used to treat cancer
A UF researcher helped ﬁ  nd that lasers could be used 
to treat cancer by allowing chemotherapy drugs to pass to the brain.
Dr. David Tran, the chief of neuro-oncology in the UF 
College of Medicine’s Department of Neurosurgery and 
Dr. Joshua Shimony, an associate professor of radiology 
at Washington University, found that lasers used against the blood-brain barrier in the brain allow chemotherapy to pass. 
The barrier naturally prevents the drugs from entering 
the brain.
“The blood vessels around the tumor end up being 
damaged by the laser, and that protection of the blood-brain barrier gets broken down,” he said.
The initial study was conducted on 14 people, Shimony 
said. 
Currently he is working on expanding the study to 40 
patients. The research could help treat some forms of can-cer.
“What we need to do now is get a grant for a bigger 
study,” Shimony said. “Hopefully what will show is in-deed breaking down the blood-brain barrier increases the effectiveness of the chemotherapy and allows us to cure 
more patients.”
-Matthew GorwitzLOCALThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The GOP created Trump; he’ll destroy it. What next?
The Republican Party has failed to stop 
Trump.
Nowhere was this more obvious than 
in our own primary, in which Florida’s Republican senator (and arguably the 
most moderate candidate) got so utterly obliter-ated by Trump that he quit his campaign. Marco Rubio was the GOP’s golden boy; this time last year, he was considered the obvious choice for the nomination. He gave up ﬁ  ve months before the convention in July.
With each passing day, Trump edges closer to victory 
at the Republican convention, making that gala the likely deathbed of the GOP as we know it. The party has two 
choices: nominate a neo-fascist monster voters elected, 
or broker the convention, saving the face of that tattered, shameful organization at the cost of voter outrage and re-prisal. Elite, inﬂ  uential conservatives are already preparing an attempt to run a third-party “true conservative” should Trump win the nomination. The latter option would at the very least give the GOP the dignity that comes with self-sac-riﬁ  ce, if it could do anything other than brieﬂ  y slow Trump down. Though I crave these outcomes, I struggle to see it 
as anything other than cowardice on part of the Republican 
Party. This thing is their fault.
For years, the party functioned as an apparatus to pre-
serve corporate power by tricking working-class whites into voting against their own economic interests, appealing to traditional social values — and to the white-supremacist tendencies among them. Formed under Nixon’s cynical Southern Strategy, the GOP coalition seemed unshakeable for generations. 
Unfortunately for them, this coincided with decades of 
disastrous economic policies that decimated the working-class white communities on which they depended on for votes. These people are pissed — and rightly so. But years of GOP indoctrination did its work. The angry, underem-ployed masses don’t identify business elites as the cause of their suffering. Instead, they understand themselves in relation to sexier, more tangible problems: ISIS, Black Lives Matter’s “war on cops,” drug addiction and il-legal immigration.
Once we understand this, we can easily see 
why Trump is so appealing. His campaign is founded on his reputation as a doer: a go-getter 
who’ll sort out immigration and destroy ISIS and 
Black Lives Matter in a jiffy. No more uncertain-ty; no more chaos. Mr. Trump will bring things back to the way they once were. Oh yeah, and he’ll get Mexico to pay for that wall.
Trumpism is nothing but a rebellion fueled 
by the very same vile Fox News and other GOP-propagan-da arms pumped into the hearts and minds of voters for decades. They converted economic depression into ethnic 
resentment and didn’t care a damn about Trumpism until 
it washed up on their doorstep; they can’t be counted on to stop it. Blocking his nomination is nothing other than an attempt to save face before Nixon’s coalition deteriorates completely, leaving the party to implode.
Trump encourages violence; Trump has a volunteer mi-
litia; He has threatened riots if he doesn’t win the nomina-tion; His followers support ethnic cleansing. They are vio-lent. Some are literal Nazis. Even if he loses in November, 
we’ll have to deal with them and their backlash. How?
Not with the armchair liberalism of proud Democrats. 
John Oliver is funny, but “Make Donald Drumpf Again” 
won’t succeed at anything other than making liberals feel better about themselves. That’ll last as long as there’s any humor left to be squeezed out of the Trump phenomenon — I have a feeling it’ll run dry soon. Smugness, condescen-sion and mocking Wal-Mart shoppers isn’t anti-Fascism.
What will work, then? Hell if I know. I wanted to praise 
the anti-Trump protests in Chicago, but then folks pointed out Trump deliberately chose the setting of a diverse college campus hoping to inspire such a protest, proving to his sup-porters that they really are embattled by “far-left” activists. It seems to be working in his favor. It’s an awful mess.
All I do is hope for a boring ending to this story.Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column appears 
on Fridays.It’s been a wild ride this week, dear readers. Between the 
Florida primary and mayoral elections, there has been plenty 
to keep the Alligator newsroom busy and bustling. But now, 
it’s time for everyone’s favorite part of the week: a time to re-
ﬂ  ect on the good and the bad, the pretty and the ugly. Thanks for tuning in, readers, to this week’s edition of…
Darts & Laurels
For those of you bafﬂ  ed by Trump’s continued rise in 
the polls, perhaps you’ll take solace in the fact that, Tues-day night, lightning struck the Trump International Hotel and 
Tower in Chicago as Illinois ﬁ  nished counting its votes. You 
read that right: As Trump took yet another victory, the heav-ens sent down a burst of lightning, almost as if to say, “What the hell are you doing, America?”
Who would’ve thought one day we’d all be jealous of a 
bolt of lightning?
Or perhaps that’s why Thor won’t be cast alongside the 
other Avengers in the upcoming “Captain America: Civil War”: He’s too busy trying to save the world from a Trump 
presidency by casting down lightning from above. You think 
Trump’s bad with immigrants? Just wait until the Asgardians follow Thor to earth and demand U.S. citizenship. Maybe then we’ll have an actual illegal-alien issue worth talking 
about. So we give a huge shout-out and Laurel to that bolt 
of lightning. You’re doing the Lord’s work.
In other Trump news (unfortunately), everyone’s favorite 
Florida politician and convincing Voldemort cosplayer Gov. 
Rick Scott ofﬁ  cially endorsed The Donald on Wednesday. As 
if Scott couldn’t give Floridians another reason to dislike him. Now some might argue we’re not being completely fair and say, “It’s not that he likes Trump. He’s doing it to unify the 
Republican Party.” 
And you’re right, that is why he endorsed Trump. But this 
is Rick Scott we’re talking about. The day our governor ends 
his ban on the words “climate change” in state agencies or 
gives a straight answer to a question on a television appear-
ance, then we’ll take about applying fairness to Scott. Here’s a Dart to Gov. Scott for being, well, disappointing and pre-
dictable.
Now that we’ve thankfully exhausted our emotions on 
Donald Trump for this week, let’s all talk about something more pleasant and aesthetically pleasing: orcas, also known as killer whales. SeaWorld announced Thursday that the 24 
orcas currently housed across three parks would be the ﬁ  nal 
generation of killer whales they breed. SeaWorld has been un-der some pretty major scrutiny in recent years, predominantly after the release of the controversial documentary “Blackﬁ  sh.” 
Regardless of the entertainment value many of us enjoyed 
as children watching Shamu in Orlando, we at the Alligator are thrilled SeaWorld has decided to head in this “new direc-tion.” We’re giving a Laurel to SeaWorld for getting with the program and allowing the future of the orca species to be in 
nothing but wide, blue, open ocean.
And, ﬁ  nally, let’s talk about the weather. Us Floridians are 
used to a few showers, but seriously, there’s nothing like con-
stant rainstorms and overall mucky weather to welcome us 
into the spring season. Between the humidity, rain and 30-de-
gree daily temperature ranges, we’re all feeling a little more dreary and prone to naps than usual. So we’re giving a Dart  
to the crappy weather we’ve been experiencing this week. 
Stay dry the best you can, readers.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
My young colleague 
Gabi has a great career ahead. She graduated 
from a first-rate uni-
versity last year with a 
double major and double minor in high-demand fields. She in-
terned with PricewaterhouseCoo-
pers starting in her second year of college, taking on progressively sophisticated roles each sum-mer, and transitioned to working with us as 
an associate immediately after graduation. 
Gabi’s a smart, competent young adult who has managed many challenges successfully. She immigrated to the U.S. from Chile with 
her parents and older sister when she was 
7. But, like most of her peers — millennials who will comprise more than 75 percent of the workforce by 2025 — Gabi is worried about money.
Gabi is a typical millennial in many 
ways. She graduated from college with long-term debt (student loans and a car payment) and experiences considerable stress around 
meeting monthly expenses. Something else 
Gabi has in common with her peers is she received very little financial education (one week in a high-school math class) before choosing to study accounting in college.
Millennials are on course to become the 
most educated generation in American his-tory. But they face greater economic chal-lenges than previous generations and are 
already financially fragile. A study our firm 
released this month, Millennials & Financial Literacy — The Struggle with Personal Fi-nance, conducted by The Global Financial Literacy Excellence Center at the George 
Washington University with the support of 
PwC, found that students like Gabi aren’t alone. In fact, a wide majority of millennials are struggling to understand fundamental 
financial concepts and manage their debt.
Despite the fact that millennials are fac-
ing these issues in large numbers, the study 
found that they are afraid to ask for help. In fact, a startling few (27 percent) seek profes-
sional financial advice. Financial literacy is 
such a pervasive issue for this generation, and it’s important to know it’s OK to ask for help.
The gap is widening between 
the amount of financial responsi-bility given to young Americans and their demonstrated ability to manage personal finances. It’s 
time to reduce that gap. Young 
people must be empowered to make smart financial decisions, because the economic stability 
and success of our businesses and commu-
nities depends on their choices.
In 2012, my firm launched its Earn Your 
Future commitment focused on helping 
young people develop critical financial skills 
and providing educators with resources 
and training to teach financial literacy. In 2015, we extended our commitment, now totaling $190 million. We don’t have all the answers, and our efforts will continue to 
evolve. Still, I am optimistic. A few months 
ago, I met with an exuberant group of third- and fourth-graders participating in an EYF program. I asked if they thought it was bet-
ter to spend on a toy or a game that they 
wanted now or to save for the future. In uni-son they shouted, “Save!” These kids have something in common with Gabi.
Unlike many of her peers (perhaps be-
cause she studied finance in college or be-cause of her family’s experience), Gabi is saving rather than spending. For now, she has chosen to live at home with her parents 
in order to pay off her student loans more 
quickly, and she is learning about ways to boost her credit score. She also reaps ben-efits from working at PwC, which this past year announced a student loan pay-down 
program to help reduce student loan bur-
den. But all adults, regardless of education or employer, should be able to manage their personal finances. Expanded access 
to financial education can bring powerful 
improvements in financial literacy and fi-nancial stability for the next generation of Americans.
A version of this column by Shannon 
Schuyler originally ran in a report by Price-waterhouseCoopers.Does your financial knowledge add up?UWire
This is going to be an amaz-ing year for the Constitu-tional Sheriffs and Peace 
Officers Association, and 
we want to thank everyone 
for making that possible. One of the greatest things I have learned 
from the CSPOA is the proper 
role of law enforcement. As a young child, I grew up with two Florida Highway Patrol officers as parents and a longtime friend who was 
a Marion County deputy sheriff. Though I 
never worked the beat, I did hear stories and saw how they carried themselves.
The Constitution lays out the proper role 
of government. The field manual on the proper role of law enforcement was forged by many yet written by one: Sheriff Rich-ard Mack. In his book “The Proper Role of Law Enforcement,” Sheriff Mack eloquent-
ly demonstrates the historical basis of the 
proper role of law enforcement.
Many citizens fear an encounter with 
police, and to some, even a friendly en-
counter can be unsettling. In our humble 
opinion, this can be somewhat attributed to policing by the numbers. At the CSPOA we continually reinforce the need for our na-tion’s peace officers to regularly associate 
with the people in their patrol areas, mak-
ing more positive contact with the public. This practice has been called community-oriented policing, and we are starting to see 
this practice re-emerge across the country.
On Jan. 15, Gainesville Police Officer 
Bobby White responded to a complaint 
about kids playing basketball in the street. Dashcam footage of the encounter shows 
White approaching one of the nervous 
youths, saying, “Can you believe someone called and complained about kids playing basketball on the street?” White continued, 
“I don’t know who called, but I don’t have 
a problem with it.” After a short hesita-tion, the youth throws the ball to White, and they begin to play for 11 minutes or so. Before leaving, White promised he would 
return for a rematch.
This dashcam footage went viral, getting millions of views on social me-
dia, but White had no idea what would happen next. To his sur-
prise, when White returned for 
a rematch with the youths Jan. 23, he was joined by former NBA player Shaquille O’Neal, who 
saw the video and decided to join 
in. White, Shaq and other GPD officers joined the youths for one of the most significant yet low-
key games of basketball ever played.
For this act of leadership and humility, 
we award the Florida CSPOA Public Official of the Month for January 2016 to White. He is a shining example of what the proper 
role of law enforcement looks like. White 
could have issued a brash warning or a ci-tation, but instead decided to take a differ-ent approach. This approach, one we advo-cate at the CSPOA, is building relationships 
that will strengthen the foundation of our 
local communities.
This approach must be initiated by the 
people, too, and it is incumbent upon all of us to build these key relationships. Many think the restoration of America begins at the polls by electing a different option for Washington, D.C. Though a great idea, the 
real solution lies at the local level with the 
people, peace officers like White and strong organizations such as the CSPOA.
Would you like to get involved with the 
CSPOA? Consider a donation or becoming a member. Visit us online at CSPOA.org for more information about our organization and how to get involved.
Kevin Blake is the Florida director of the 
CSPOA.Cop and Shaq shoot it out in FloridaGuest column
Shannon 
Schuyler
UWire
Kevin 
Blake
Speaking Out
“For this act of leadership 
and humility, we award 
the Florida CSPOA Public 
Official of the Month for 
January to White.”desk and told him: “Boy, I got just 
the place for you.”
His mother’s two beauty shops 
in his Miami hometown weren’t enough to keep Middleton from going to bed hungry. He preferred the youth center he was first sent 
to. 
Instead, he got Marianna. 
When he got to the school, he 
signed his name in careful letters. Bryant Middleton. 
Middleton’s three blackberries 
sent him to the White House, the building where boys were severe-ly punished. 
But not all boys who were 
sent to the White House came out alive. The screams of children who begged for their mothers and God were drowned out by a large 
fan, he said.  
Middleton feared he wouldn’t 
come out of the White House.
He was forced to lay face-
down on a blood-stained pillow 
on a thin mattress and told to grip the frame’s metal railing.
The mattress had stains of 
vomit, pee and tears.
Bryant laid down, not knowing 
what was about to happen. 
He remembers the sound of 
the paddle hissing through the air before the searing pain.
And he remembers Arthur G. 
Dozier, who would later become the superintendent and the school would be renamed after him, as he slapped his hand against the 
wall with every strike. 
“The only thing he said was: 
Another. Another. Another.” 
•   •   •
Middleton left Dozier little af-
ter a year, and the memories and 
the scars kept him fighting long 
after for the boys he left behind. 
He coped with the nightmares by running behind enemy lines in Vietnam. He needed to prove 
to himself that he could protect himself and never feel helpless again. As a soldier, he earned two 
purple hearts, countless scars and 
five bullet wounds.
But no matter how far he ran, 
his past found him — a past he never shared with anyone.
It wasn’t until his wife was 
reading an article in the North-west Florida Daily News that the horrid memories of his childhood 
came back.
“Have you ever heard of a 
place called Marianna?” She 
asked before handing him the pa-per. 
His hands trembled as he took 
it from her and began to read. 
Once he told her about his time 
at Marianna, she was angry that 
something like this could happen 
in Florida. She encouraged him to speak up. 
“If you can fight, you need to,” 
she told him. “If you saw some-
one being beaten in the street, 
you couldn’t just stand there. You have to do something.”
Middleton became one of the 
few who took a public stance against the state.
He became a liaison between 
lawyers and the survivors of the school.
The bill, drawn up by Sen. 
Arthenia L. Joyner, D-Tampa, ad-dresses the victims of the school in Marianna. It addresses the 
reports of abuse, the nearly 100 
deaths that occurred at the school and the investigation by the Uni-versity of South Florida, which found 55 burial sites with 51 bod-
ies. The bill also sets a task force 
that will decide where a memorial will go to honor the students of the school.
It sets aside $500,000 of the 
state budget, up to $7,500 for families to properly lay their chil-8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
1897
JUNE 4, 1897: 
Florida Legislature 
mandates for the Florida State Reform School on initially 1,200 acres in Mari-anna, Florida; Gov-ernor appoints five commissioners to oversee the school and report to the Legislature bienni-ally.1900 1914 1944 1955 1957 1968
JAN. 1, 1900
Florida State Re-form School opens. Initially, boys were sent there for com-mitting criminal offenses. The law was broadened to include boys who committed “incorri-gibility,” or refusing to conform, “truan-cy.” Children from orphanages were sent to the school. 1914
School renamed the Florida Industrial School for Boys.
1914
A dormitory fire re-portedly kills eight students and two staff members.1944
One student is mur-dered by four other students planning to escape.1955
A second cam-pus is opened in Okeechobee to alle-viate overcrowding.1957
School renamed Florida School for Boys.1968
School renamed the Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys.DOZIER,  from pg 1A bill may pass to fund burials for the lost boys’ families
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Bryant E. Middleton, 70. “They stole our hope. They took away our dignity. They frightened us every single day, ” he said. “These weren’t convicts. These were children. And they allowed it to happen. ”dren to rest.
Money can’t fix the school’s 
111 years of neglect, abuse, vio-
lence and betrayal, but it’s a 
small step toward closure for the families who never saw their boys come home.
Gov. Rick Scott has until the 
end of the month to make a deci-sion about the bill.
The bill acknowledges the 
crimes that shouldn’t have oc-
curred in the first place, said for-
mer Florida Gov. Bob Martinez.  
He serves as a senior policy 
adviser for the law firm Holland 
& Knight, which is representing the White House Boys against the 
state. 
“We’re trying to bring atten-
tion to what happened at Dozier,” he said.
Middleton doesn’t think it’s 
enough, but it’s a start. 
He still cries when he thinks of 
his days at Marianna. 
“The only thing we’re asking 
for is a little bit of justice. We’re not asking for a hand out, we’re 
asking for accountability,” he 
said. 
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2016 TODAY
2008
Ben Montgomery, a 
reporter for Tampa Bay Times, began looking into the school’s history.
2008 
Gov. Charlie Crist charged Florida De-partment of Law Enforcement with investigating the school’s burial site.APRIL 17, 2009
St. Petersburg Times releases investiga-tion of the Dozier school.
MAY 15, 2009
FDLE releases in-vestigation of 31 in-dividuals buried in school’s cemetery.FEB. 29, 2010
State Attorney Glenn Hess advises there is insufficient evidence to pursue criminal charges.
MARCH 11, 2010 
FDLE concludes investigation into Dozier school.JUNE 30, 2011
The Dozier school is shut down, citing financial instability. 
DEC. 1, 2011
US Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division releases re-port criticizing state for failing to pro-tect students at the
 
school.2012
A team of research-ers from USF pub-lished an inves-tigation on the cemetery. Erin Kim-merle, USF associate professor and foren-sic anthropologist, led the investiga-tion
. JANUARY 2016
USF researchers found nearly 100 boys between ages 6 and 18 died between 1900 and 1973.FEB. 18, 2016
Senate Bill 708 in-troduced by Sen. Arthenia Joyner, D-Tampa, to help fam-ilies pay for burial of relatives.
LEFT: 
Pictured are printed photos of former state workers at the reform school for boys in Mari-anna, Florida, most recently known as the Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
BELOW:
Pictured is Middleton, second from left, while he was serv-ing in the U.S. Army. During his 22-year tenure, he earned two Purple Heart medals.
Courtesy to the AlligatorBy Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
Between 2011 and 2012, about 
92,000 students were arrested at 
school, Jason Nance, a UF asso-
ciate law professor, told students 
Thursday.
Nance, speaking to about 40 
people, said the U.S. has a school-
to-prison pipeline, in which stu-
dents of color experience dis-
proportional punishment and 
incarceration rates. The event, 
held at UF’s Levin College of Law, was the last seminar in the law school’s “Race Matters in the News” series.
School officials refer students 
to the police as a form of punish-ment, he said. Because of this, the number of youths in jail increases. 
Once arrested, statistics show 
a student is more likely to misbe-have in the future, he said.  
Nance said school systems 
need to find alternative ways to 
reprimand students. 
He said schools should use re-
storative justice, in which the vic-
tim, offender and teacher sit down 
and discuss the incident.
“This technique helps restore 
the individual’s self-esteem and al-lows him or her to come back into the school system as a full-fledged 
member,” Nance said.
Nance said he taught students 
of color at an inner-city school 
about 20 years ago. After strug-
gling his first year, he learned he needed to build trust with his stu-dents to engage them.
“I am convinced that helping 
teachers become better instruc-tors improves the overall safety of schools,” Nance said.
Nance said the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education spends about $12,000 on each student through-out their time in school. The aver-age cost to detain a child for one year is about $148,000. 
“Isn’t it better to invest our re-
sources in schools than juvenile detention centers?” Nance said. 
Kayla Martin, a 21-year-old UF 
political science junior, said she attended the event because Nance addressed an issue she cared about. 
Martin said there were always 
police present at the entrance of her alma mater, Winter Park High School in Orlando. 
“A lot of my friends who were 
suspended in high school are in jail,” she said. “Having a police presence at schools just shows students they aren’t trusted.”10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
THE HARN HOSTS ITS FIRST 
HARN MUSEUM OF DANCE 
EVENT ON SATURDAY.
By Leah Marshall
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will perform ballet, 
hip hop and West African dances 
Saturday.
About 70 dancers from UF’s 
School of Theatre + Dance will take 
the stage at the Samuel P. Harn Mu-
seum of Art for its first Harn Muse-um of Dance event. The free dance, which takes place from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., combines the visual arts and dance. 
Joan Frosch, the director of the 
UF Center for World Arts, said she’s spent hundreds of hours preparing for the dance. She hopes students gain appreciation for the visual arts.
“We also love to give our students 
and our community another way to understand dance and celebrate dance in the world,” Frosch said. 
Maripili Rodriguez, a UF dance 
junior, said she’s been practicing her modern dance piece, “To feel… So WE can be,” by Mia Redding, since Fall. This weekend, she will don a white top and black skirt for her dance. 
“It’s nice because it’s putting an 
ending to hard work we’ve put into the piece, and we’ve been practicing since Fall, so it’s our last hurrah,” the 21-year-old said. 
Minji Ku, a UF biology sopho-
more, said she plans on attending the event.
“I really love the arts,” the 
20-year-old said. “I think it’s so cool 
how many different ways there are to 
express yourself. I’m not much of a dancer at all, so I love to watch.” Combining visual arts and dance
Courtesy to the Alligator
Debbie Maciel poses for a promotional photo for the Harn Museum of Dance event on Saturday. About 
70 dancers from the UF’s School of Theatre + Dance will perform from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., combining a variety of the visual arts and dance.
Nate Phillips / Alligator
Jason Nance, a UF associate law professor, spoke to students about racially disproportional punishment and incarceration rates during the last seminar of UF Levin College of Law’s “Race Matters  in the News” series on Thursday.
CAMPUS
Law professor talks 
school-to-prison pipeline
Giuseppe Sabella / Alligator Staff
COME AND GET ‘EM
Students wait in line to get their Big Orange Festival tickets at the Reitz Union on Thursday. This year, 
the event will host DJ Khaled and Bo Burnham. It will be held tonight.STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   1 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Student Living Guide
Spring 2016
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 2   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
UF’s Off Campus Life provides resources, 
services, education and support for the 
40,000 students living off campus.  OCL aims 
to provide programs and services that will 
help prepare students to be a great Gator 
neighbors, here in Gainesville or wherever 
the road may take you.
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeFree Online Housing Locator Service:  Students 
can search for off-campus housing, subleases and 
roommates through this free online site.  This site 
also allows students to post sublease listings. Go 
to http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu to use this 
resource.
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life:   A free 
publication that provides tips and resources 
for finding the right apartment, budgeting 
information, safety tips, tips to reduce your utility 
usage, a map of the city, and much more. T o get 
a copy of the Gator Guide, visit the OCL office 
located inside the Housing Office on the corner of 
SW 13th Street & Museum Road, or visit the OCL 
website at www.offcampus.ufl.edu and click on 
the Gator Guide link. 
Individual Meetings:  Off Campus Life provides one on one meetings with students who are 
searching for off-campus housing. Meetings 
include information on the housing market, 
average costs, lease information, steps to 
follow to find off-campus housing, safety tips, 
transportation information, and the answers to 
your housing questions. T o set up an appointment 
please complete the appointment request 
form available through the OCL website www.
offcampus.ufl.edu/appointments/ or call 
(352)392-1207 to schedule a meeting with an 
OCL staff member.
Off Campus Ambassadors:  OCL ’s sponsored 
student organization works to connect off-
campus students with UF and the Gainesville 
community. The OCA’s assist Off Campus Life 
with events, outreach efforts, and plan their 
own events including an annual Roommate Mixer and Puppy Palooza.  T o learn more, visit 
the Off Campus Ambassador webpage at www.
offcampus.ufl.edu/off_campus_ambassadors/. 
Discover Gainesville:  This monthly event series 
allows students to attend fun activities in the 
Gainesville community, and OCL covers the cost. 
Upcoming Spring 2016 Discover Gainesville 
events include hiking at Devil’s Millhopper 
(March 26th) and Free Ice Cream Scoop at 
Sweet Dreams (April 11th). T o learn more about 
Discover Gainesville and to reserve a spot for one 
of OCL ’s upcoming events visit the OCL website 
events page www.offcampus.ufl.edu/events. 
Social Media:   Check OCL out on social media 
including Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram 
and Pinterest @UFOffCampusLife.
What is 
Off Campus Life?
Off Campus Life, which is part of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, has been providing support services and 
resources to UF students living off campus since 2004.  OCL ’s support services and resources include:Located inside the Housing Office 
on the corner of SW 13th Street & Museum Road.
(352) 392-1207
www.offcampus.ufl.eduSTUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Getting Started
Gainesville has an abundance of off-campus 
housing options including apartments, condos and 
houses for rent, so take your time, and be sure to 
visit 5-6 properties in person before signing a lease.  
Follow the steps below to find the right place for 
you:
• Utilize UF’s Off Campus Housing Locator 
Service at http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a property 
that allows you to live within your means.
• Choose a well-suited roommate or choose 
to live alone. Know what kind of person 
would best complement your personality 
and choose accordingly.
• Create a priority list. What do you care 
about most in a living space? Room size, 
rent, type of lease, type of community 
(large undergraduate population, graduate 
students, local residents, etc.), location, 
proximity to campus or bus route. Create a 
list of ideal characteristics you want in your 
future living space and keep these criteria in 
mind when selecting a location.
• Drive around and visit the properties and 
neighborhoods where you are thinking 
about living.  • T ake a tour of the complexes or houses that 
interest you, ask questions and get to know 
the complex management or rental house 
landlord.
• Ask your friends for advice on where to live. 
Which properties worked well for them?  
Which did not?
• Check the RTS bus routes www.go-rts.com 
to make sure routes work for your class 
schedule.
• Visit the Crime Reports website www.
crimereports.com to view, on a searchable 
map, crime statistics before signing a lease. 
• While taking a tour check for safety features 
including deadbolts and peepholes on 
entrance doors, windows that lock, exterior 
lighting and well maintained properties. 
• Also, go back to the property at night 
and check to see if the property is it well-
lit, do you see the security guard that 
management promised, is the security gate 
working, is it quiet enough to study and 
sleep, and check the lighting at the bus stop 
or parking lot to the complex or house.
• Once you’ve narrowed down your search, 
make an appointment with UF’s Student 
Legal Services by going to their website 
www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu. SLS can help you in reviewing the lease BEFORE 
you sign it. This is a great way to understand 
your legal responsibilities under that lease. 
• Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent and live, 
so have fun with your search!
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus Life
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
1 2 3 4 5STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 6   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Safety Tips
Both personal and property safety is important 
as you search for off-campus housing.  Before 
signing a lease, Off Campus Life recommends 
you check the crime statistics for an area before 
moving there.  The Crime Reports website www.
crimereports.com allows you to search by address, 
and see on map, crime that has occurred in that 
area over the last three weeks.Below are five tips to use when looking at safety during your apartment search:
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeGo back to the 
complex at night. 
How do you feel? Is 
the place well-lit and 
populated or dark 
and isolated?Does the 
property have 
working security 
gates and/or 
guards?Check for dead bolts on the 
exterior door(s), locks for individual 
room doors, alarm systems, etc. 
and ask specific questions about 
the security. Is there an extra 
charge for a security system?Has there been crime 
in the area recently? 
What actions 
have been done to 
prevent crime from 
happening?Don’t forget about 
purchasing Renters 
Insurance to protect 
you and your stuff 
from the unexpected.ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Renter’s Insurance
If you are thinking about renting a house or apartment, 
renters insurance provides important coverage for both 
you and your possessions. A standard renters policy 
protects your personal property in case of theft or damage 
and may pay for temporary living expenses if your rental is 
damaged (including loss of use). It can also shield you from 
personal liability. Anyone who leases a house or apartment 
should consider this type of coverage. 
T alk with your parents before getting your own renters 
policy. If you are still financially dependent on your parents 
or a family member and they own a home, they might 
be able to cover you under their homeowner’s policy. 
Some homeowner policies will cover a dependent’s rental 
property while in college.  
There are several types of residential insurance policies. 
Read your policy information carefully and ensure you 
have full coverage. Policies should include the following 
items: 
Fire or lightning 
Windstorm or hail 
Explosion 
Aircraft 
Vehicles 
Smoke 
Vandalism or malicious mischief Theft 
Damage by glass or safety-
glazing material that is part of a 
building 
Falling objects 
Water-related damage from 
home utilities 
Electrical surge damage
Information reprinted with permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeFloods, earthquakes, and hurricanes aren’t on 
the list. If you live in an area prone to one or more 
of the three, you’ll need to buy a separate policy 
or a rider. In areas where hurricanes can pose a 
threat, you might also need to buy a separate rider 
to cover wind damage. Ask your insurance agent 
about this extra coverage. Gainesville is prone to 
hurricanes and some areas do flood.
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease before signing. A lease is a 
contract between you and your landlord or apartment complex management that outlines 
specific details of your living arrangement. Leases often involve policies about pets, secu -
rity and pet deposits, subleasing, legal entry and other important information. Typically, leases in 
Gainesville are for 12 months. If you need to rent for 10 months or less, talk with the management 
about whether they can provide you a short-term lease. There are two types of leases that are usu -
ally available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.Joint Lease
Individual Lease
Clauses to LOOK FOR in a lease:
• Dates of occupancy (make sure your move-in 
date is before classes begin and move-out date 
is after finals are over)
• Amount of monthly rent and the date it is due 
each month
• Amount of Application Fees, Security Deposit, 
Redecoration Fees, and any other fees charged
• Responsibility for payment of utilities
• Responsibility for general maintenance and 
repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 month lease, but think 
you may need the dwelling for a shorter period 
of time, make sure the lease allows you to 
sublease (rent your dwelling to another person 
who will assume the remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of lease: Joint vs. IndividualClauses to AVOID in a lease:
• At management’s discretion, the tenant 
may be asked to leave within three days
• T enant waives all defects in the building
• Landlord shall not be responsible for 
injury to person, including tenant and 
guests, as a result of any cause
• T enant is responsible for all repairs to 
premises 
• Landlord may enter dwelling without 
notice
• Landlord has a lien (a legal claim on 
the property of another as security for 
the payment of a debt) on all personal 
property
A great University of Florida resource available to students is Student 
Legal Services.  For any questions on your lease, visit the Student Legal 
Services website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.edu and set up an 
appointment with a lawyer to review the lease BEFORE you sign it. All roommates are held responsible for the lease. If one person breaks the lease, the other roommates are held responsible for paying the total 
rent. This tends to be the lease more prominent when renting a house or single family dwelling.
Each person is held responsible for his or her own actions. For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still responsible for 
paying their own rent. For most college students, individual leases are the best choice. Each person in the lease is responsible for his or her own 
actions and not the actions of a roommate.  
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus Life
LeasesSTUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT 12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE
Budgets1. What is the monthly rent?
2. What is included in that rent? Utilities, gas, water, cable, internet, 
furniture?
3. What is not included in rent? What is the average monthly cost 
for gas, electric, water, garbage disposal? If management doesn’t 
know, contact GRU at www.gru.com and they can give you aver -
age costs of utilities from the previous year.
4. Want to have a pet? Factor in the deposit and monthly cost for 
food, medical and grooming care.
5. Don’t forget the insurance. Before you sign your lease, call your 
insurance company and see how much it will cost monthly to 
insure your apartment or house.
6. Are you going to need fuel for your vehicle or are you going to use 
the bus? Factor parking decal costs and car maintenance costs 
into your budget.
7. How much will you spend monthly on groceries or on a meal plan?
8. Have some fun! Don’t spend so much on rent that you don’t have 
money for fun stuff.
9. What do you spend on clothing, shoes and accessories?
10. How much money can you save every month? It’s ideal to save 
some money every month to cover unexpected emergency ex -
penses. Even $20 a month saved is good.  Every little bit counts!
T o help you with your budget, OCL has a budget spreadsheet in the 
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life (page 7) and online at 
www.offcampus.ufl.edu/gator_guide. 
Your living environment plays a major factor in your overall happiness 
level. Know what you want to get out of your living space and choose your 
location and roommate(s) accordingly.  Gainesville is home now, so let Off 
Campus Life help you get the most out of your off-campus experience.
You can’t find the right place to live until you 
know how much you are able to spend. Here 
are some budget questions you should think 
about while touring a property:
Information reprinted with permission by UF’s Off Campus LifeFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-23-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5For Sale: Condo 1BR/1BA - 705sq.ft. Bike to UF or ride bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018     3-21-5-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    3-18-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds24   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!! Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast! Running or Not. Nationwide Free Towing. Same Day Pick-Up And Pay Available: Call 888-689-8647    3-18-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted
FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   25
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Local small business is seeking a market-ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches hiring part-time deli help/closer and day availability.Apply at 2327 NW 13th St location. Must have reliable transportation.    3-24-16-5-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    3-18-1-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers- Avg. $60k+/yr$2k Sign-On BonusFamily Company w/ Great MilesLove Your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    3-18-1-14
 
 
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
CUSTOMER SERVICE/ HELP DESK SPECIALIST! Online career training gets you the skills you need now! COMPANIES HIRING OUR GRADS! Call for details! HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! 1-888-926-6058    3-18-1-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted26   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers -Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -Get certified in just 12 weeks with FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    3-18-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    3-18-1-16
Stop OVERPAYING for your prescriptions!Save up to 93%! Call our licensed Canadian and International pharmacy service to com-pare prices and get $15.00 off your first pre-scription! FREE Shipping 1-844-200-4160    3-18-1-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/21-3/24 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      3-21-5-20
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services 19 Connections 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFlorida women's basketball 
player Eleanna Christinaki is excelling on the court and in the classroom.Read the story on pg. 28.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's swimming and diving trails at NCAA meet
After two days of competition, the Gators are in 20th place with eight races 
remaining. Read the story online at Alligator.org/sports.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Florida led by 32 points at halftime, 
made nearly 70 percent of its three-point 
shots and defended at an elite level.
Coach Mike White didn’t know wheth-
er to be elated or furious. 
“As happy as I was at the half, I was 
a little bit angry,” he said after UF’s 97-
68 win over North Florida on Tuesday. “You know, where was that (all season)? 
Where was that fellas?”
This season, the Gators have not been 
a good three-point shooting team.
Inexplicably, against UNF, they were.UF (20-14) tied a program record for 
most three-pointers in a first half with 12, finishing with a 50.0-percent mark from behind the arc, its highest since Jan. 30.
“It was just one of those games,” said 
redshirt senior forward Dorian Finney-Smith, who finished with a team-high 15 points. “We caught fire.”
The performance advanced UF into a 
second-round National Invitation Tourna-
ment matchup with No. 3-seed Ohio State 
(21-13) in Columbus, Ohio, at noon on Sunday.
There, the No. 2-seed Gators will face 
a defensive-minded Buckeyes team that 
ranks second in the Big 10 in blocked Florida making best of NIT opportunity
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
 
Logan Shore remembers his first taste of 
Southeastern Conference play.
It was two years ago on March 14.
Shore earned the win in a 2-1 victory over 
Arkansas. The Coon Rapids, Minnesota, na-
tive was just a freshman, but he was the Friday-night starter.
Two seasons later, Shore said he didn’t 
know what he was getting into. 
“I didn’t even really understand what SEC 
play was,” he said. “Once you kind of got into it and started experiencing how good some of these teams and players are, you kind of get a feel for what you’re going up 
against.”
For the third time in his career, Shore will 
take the mound for top-ranked Florida’s first 
conference game when the Gators take on Missouri tonight at 7 at McKethan Stadium.
Shore said he’s excited to begin SEC play, 
and he’s looking forward to bouncing back from his worst start of the season against Harvard in his previous outing.
The Crimson pounded Shore to the tune 
of nine hits and five runs, which tied Shore’s career high in runs allowed. Although the ju-nior’s ERA jumped to 2.00, he still earned the win to improve to 4-0.
“It was just kind of one those outings 
where I missed on a couple pitches and they made me pay for it,” Shore said. “I talked with Sully a lot about that this week, espe-cially going into Missouri and teams like that where they’re gonna capitalize on mistakes. You just gotta make pitches.”
The Tigers (14-6) have lost three of their 
last four games, but like Florida (18-1), they boast some pretty impressive arms.
The first two starters the Gators will see 
— redshirt senior Reggie McClain and sopho-Experienced 
Shore leading UF
 baseball
AS OF PRESS TIME, DUKES IS 
BEING HELD WITHOUT BOND.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested former UF athlete Dedric 
Antoine Dukes on Thursday morning after 
they said he repeatedly assaulted, kidnapped and threatened his girlfriend with a gun over the course of four months.
In November, about a month after they 
started dating, the woman confronted Dukes, 24, when she thought he was cheating, ac-cording to a police report. He then punched her in the face, knocking her glasses loose and leaving a red mark on her face, accord-ing to a police report.
In January, as Dukes left his girlfriend’s 
home, she told him it was time to break up. Dukes then pushed back through the door and knocked her over, according to the re-port.
Dukes hit the woman as she lay on the 
ground. He then forced her into his car and drove to his apartment, hitting her along the way, according to the report.
The woman later took pictures of her 
swollen and injured face, according to the report.
About a month later, the woman ques-
tioned Dukes about a suspicious text mes-sage, according to the report. He responded by punching her in the back of the head.
Dukes later accused his girlfriend of steal-
ing an expensive necklace, which she de-nied. Not convinced, Dukes brandished a semi-automatic handgun, aimed at her and demanded his necklace back, according to the report.
He then forced her into the trunk of his 
car, where she remained for several minutes, 
Former Florida track star arrested for kidnapping, batteryAP Photo
UF's Dorian Finney-Smith (10) and T exas A&M's Tyler Davis (34) battle for a rebound during Florida's 72-66 loss to T exas A&M in the SEC T ournament Quarterfinals on March 11 in Nashville.
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 29
SEE DUKES,  PAGE 29SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 29By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
One minute separated Eleanna 
Christinaki from making history. 
With time running out in Florida’s 
93-79 win over UCF on Dec. 30, the 
freshman guard from Athens, Greece, 
was slowly closing in on a career 
milestone.
Needing only one rebound and 
one assist to become just the third Florida women’s basketball player to record a triple-double, she grabbed the Gators’ last board.
But there would be no assist and 
no triple double. 
Her performance would, however, 
be a sign. And not just a sign of the success that was to come for her and her team, which faces Albany in the first round of the NCAA Tournament at noon. 
It was a sign of who Christinaki is 
as a person, exhibiting balance both on and off the court with a desire 
to bring out the best in the people 
around her. 
“I wanted to make my school be 
really good,” Eleanna said. “Like, get-ting higher. I didn’t want to go into UConn and be the (best) without training so much.”
And after just one season, she’s 
already helped lead the her team’s 
resurgence in the Southeastern Con-
ference. But with three years left in Gainesville, there’s ample opportunity for her to leave an even larger mark on the program.
“You make history,” she said. 
“That’s the point.”
•   •   •
Eleanna’s athletic career didn’t be-
gin on the hardwood. 
As the daughter of a soccer coach, 
she grew up playing the sport her dad knew best. But that changed abruptly 
when Eleanna was about 13 years 
old. 
“Because I was tall, my father one 
day just told me, ‘No, you’re gonna start playing basketball,’” she said. “I just started, and I really liked it, and then I forgot my soccer skills.”
Eleanna quickly discovered that 
her abilities as a basketball player 
were well beyond what her abilities 
as a soccer player ever were.
By the time she was 14 years old 
— only a year after taking up the sport — Eleanna was already playing in the Greek National System. And at 18, the six-foot guard became the second-youngest player to ever make the Greek Senior National Team. 
But her success didn’t just culmi-
nate in promotions or individual ac-colades, which included being named the Top Young Player in Greece twice.
It led to scholarship offers.It led to interest from professional 
teams in Europe, which offered her contracts out of high school.
But for Eleanna, a college diploma 
was essential. So when Florida as-sistant coach Murriel Page contacted her, she listened. 
The school was an ideal fit for her 
playing style, boasted a respectable academic reputation and allowed her to make an immediate impact by of-fering her the opportunity to play right away.
In April 2015, Eleanna and her 
parents made the near-6,000-mile trip from Athens to Gainesville. 
“Before I came, I tried to learn a lot of things about (Florida),” Eleanna said. 
But despite all she knew about UF 
beforehand, it was the official visit — which turned out to be her only visit — that had the greatest impact on her.
“The first day I just met the team 
and met the coaches, and I feel that I would fit in this team,” Eleanna said. “I just feel it. Something inside me 
told me that this is the place.”
•   •   •
Only seven months after enrolling 
at UF, Eleanna has taken to calling her 
teammates and coaches her “Ameri-can family.”
But sometimes she can’t escape 
the fact that her real one is half a world away. 
“I miss my family so much,” she 
said. “I’m just trying to say every day to my parents if they can find time to come and watch me here.”
In addition to missing her par-
ents and brother, she also misses her homeland’s food — but only to an 
extent.
While she has yet to try a gyro in 
Gainesville, she’s embraced some un-
healthy American favorites.
“All the bad things,” she said of 
her affinity for American cuisine. “Burgers and all that’s really bad. I like it.”
While the food has been easy to 
adjust to, other facets of her college experience have not been.
“I don’t think I could go to Greece 
and take classes and play basketball and everything else,” said Bill Ferrara, the team’s guards coach.
With time, Eleanna started to ad-
just both on and off the court.
In her first semester as a UF stu-
dent, the exploratory social and be-havioral sciences major earned a 3.7 GPA.
“I didn’t know so good English, 
and it was hard for me,” she said. “But with a lot of tutoring hours and a lot of study — I study a lot — it wasn’t so hard.”
Brooke Copeland, a sophomore 
guard and one of Eleanna’s best friends on the team, has seen her struggle with the language barrier in her school work.
“She’s so, so smart,” Copeland 
said, “but taking her thoughts in 
Greek and interpreting it into English 
and making sense is somewhat diffi-
cult.”
While improving her English for 
the sake of grades may have been dif-
ficult, it didn’t present as much of a challenge on the basketball court. 
“The amount of basketball termi-
nology that she picks up every day is unbelievable,” Ferrara said.
But the words she learns aren’t 
limited to basketball terms.
After coach Amanda Butler said 
“Okie dokie” in practice once, the phrase stuck with Eleanna.
She soon added it to her expand-
ing vocabulary, using it in place of “yes” at every opportunity.
Another favorite is “deliberate,” 
which Butler once said directly to El-eanna.
“Everybody start laughing because 
I didn’t know what that means,” she said.
“But now it’s my word. Like, I say 
it, ‘Coach, I will do deliberate.’ I know this word.”
While Eleanna still isn’t fully com-
fortable with English, Gainesville is still starting to feel like a second home. 
“She feels like they’re a family 
there,” said Mariella Fasoula, a center 
for Boston College who played with 
Eleanna in the Greek National System for almost five years before the two of them went to college. “She loves being there and playing in the team.”
Butler said that Eleanna has 
meshed with the team so well be-cause of her ability to adapt. 
“(It’s) her ability to adjust to a dif-
ferent lifestyle, a different country, a different way of playing basketball,” Butler said. “A different set of team-mates, a different set of coaches and to try to adapt to those groups in a way where she’s not just blending in, but where she’s adding to that group in a positive manner.”But even though she’s been em-
braced by her team and has started to rub off on them, Eleanna’s jour-ney thus far has been challenging. Through it all, though, she’s main-
tained an optimistic attitude.
“Every new beginning is hard. 
And especially for an international who doesn’t know so good the lan-
guage,” she said.
“But you know, it’s getting better.”
•   •   •
Before this season, UF’s women’s 
basketball team hadn’t won 20 games in a regular season since 2008-09.
The Gators were coming off a 13-
17 season, the worst mark for the pro-
gram since 2006-07. 
But ever since they upset then-
No. 6 Florida State in their second 
game of the season, the Gators have looked nothing like the group the me-dia projected would finish 12th out of 14 teams at Southeastern Conference Media Day. 
“When we won the Florida State 
game, I was really, really happy for that,” Eleanna said. “I didn’t know a lot about this — enemy things.”
Eleanna said the November win 
was her favorite moment during her time in America.
Four months later, the Gators are 
heading to the NCAA Tournament with 22 wins.
And while the FSU game was a 
pivotal moment in the season, El-eanna has been a pivotal part of the team’s success.
She leads UF in assists with 102 
— 31 more than her closest teammate — and is second in scoring, averaging 10.6 points per game. She’s also the top-rebounding guard on the team, 
averaging 3.2 per game. 
She’s been named SEC Freshman 
Player of the Week three times — one 
award away from matching former WNBA player Sha Brooks for the most all-time in a Gators’ uniform. 
“She’s one of the top-five players 
in Europe — there was definitely an expectation of immediate impact,” 
Ferrara said. But if you ask Eleanna, she prob-
ably doesn’t know how many times she’s won SEC Freshman of the Week 
or that she’s leading the team in as-sists. 
All she knows is that the team is 
winning. 
In fact, her commitment to keep-
ing the spotlight on the team rather than on herself is so great that she fre-quently refuses to acknowledge her 
own accomplishments. 
“I don’t think that I’m success-
ful, first of all,” she said. “I’m really 
happy that I get these awards because that means that the team is winning and that’s what we want.”
Fasoula, Eleanna’s former team-
mate from Greece, says the key to El-eanna’s success as a basketball player 
is her ability to perform many differ-
ent functions.
“I feel like she is very versatile. She 
has a great drive, a great shot and is not a selfish player,” she said.
But Haley Lorenzen, a UF sopho-
more forward, says that while El-eanna’s talent is undeniable, it’s her team-first attitude that stands out the 
most.
“She hugs you when she thinks 
you’re going to go for a chest bump,” 
Lorenzen said.
And yes, there have been times 
when Eleanna commits a turnover or takes an ill-advised shot that you’re reminded she’s still a freshman. 
But there have also been times 
when she makes a no-look pass or snatches a rebound like a post player that you’re amazed she still has three years to go. 
“She hasn’t even scratched the 
surface of what she’s going to be-come,” Ferrara said.
•   •   •
Before coming to UF, Eleanna 
faced many uncertainties. And in some ways, nothing has changed. 
“Every day I’m waking up and I 
want to study something else,” she said.
She’s taken classes ranging from 
sociology to biology to journalism, 
with no clear direction so far. 
Eleanna is still unsure about her 
future in basketball. 
As the first Greek player to suit up 
for the Florida women’s basketball 
team, she could return to Europe to play professionally. She could also stay in the U.S. and play in the WNBA if she continues on her current trajec-
tory. Or she could — however unlike-
ly — give up basketball all together.
But she doesn’t have the answers. And she isn’t thinking about it. “I’m going step by step,” she said. 
“Now we have this game, I’m worried about this game.”
Her one-step-at-a-time attitude has 
paid dividends in the past.
It landed her college scholarships.It landed her offers to play profes-
sionally.
It landed her a place on the All-
SEC Freshman Team.
But her ultimate goal is still to 
make history — whether at UF or be-yond.
“I’m working every day that same 
way — really hard,” she said. “So you never know what’s gonna happen af-ter my four years here.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org28   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
AN ODYSSEY: Christinaki excelling on court, in classroom
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eleanna Christinaki looks to drive to the basket while two Kentucky players defend her during Florida’s 
92-69 loss to the Wildcats in the SEC T ournament Quarterfinals on March 4 in Jacksonville.FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   29
more Tanner Houck — have combined for 
a 5-1 record and a 1.21 ERA thus far.
Houck, who twirled a one-run, eight-
inning gem in a 10-1 win over Florida last year, played with Shore as well as UF’s Buddy Reed, JJ Schwarz and A.J. Puk this summer for Team USA.
Shore knows just how good Houck is.“He throws hard and sinks the ball,” 
he said. “We’re just gonna go in there with a game plan and just try to attack and put some runs up on him early.”
Freshman second baseman Deacon 
Liput will play a big factor in putting up those runs.
Liput has been a big reason UF has 
scored more than seven runs per game this year, as he’s hitting .379 and has reached base in all 19 games.
Liput said he’s relied on some of the 
upperclassmen to help prepare him for SEC play. 
The Oviedo native said he’s planning 
on talking to Reed and Schwarz about Houck.
“I’m gonna talk to them a lot,” Liput 
said. “They know what he’s really about (and) what he pitches most predominant-ly.”
Although he's never faced some of the 
better pitchers in the SEC, Liput said he isn’t worried, because he’s already seen some tough arms.
“We’ve actually faced, on a couple 
teams now, pitchers that Sully had talked about being SEC-type arms,” Liput said.
And although he’s a little nervous, 
Liput is excited for the conference sea-son within the regular season. Before he knows it, Liput will be in Shore’s spot — a junior with two years of conference play under his wings.
Reﬂ  ecting on his career at Florida, 
Shore’s message to the freshman was sim-ple: “Don’t try to hype it up too much.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 27Liput has reached base in every game this seasonshots (5.3 per game) and fourth in ﬁ  eld-goal per-
centage allowed (40.2 percent). 
UF has never defeated Ohio State on the road.
Even so, Florida has just one thing on its mind 
heading into practice today and Saturday: Do 
whatever it takes to keep playing.
“This isn’t what we signed up for. This wasn’t 
the ultimate goal,” White said of playing in the NIT. 
“But we all started playing, staff included, as 
young kids because we love the game and we love to compete. Whoever is next, we should em-brace that, otherwise something is wrong with us. Why would you want it to end? Let’s prolong it as long as possible.” 
After UF’s loss to Texas A&M in the South-
eastern Conference Tournament quarterﬁ  nals on March 11, White said Florida’s practice the next day was “horriﬁ  c.”
There was no energy, no desire and no com-
petitiveness. The day before, Florida found out it hadn’t made the NCAA Tournament, and its players and coaches were disappointed.
After the practice, the coaching staff showed 
the team a video of New York City and Madison Square Garden, the site of the NIT Championship game.
“We came back here (after the practice) and 
we were a different team,” White said. “It was like something had changed with us.”
Led by Finney-Smith and junior Kasey Hill, 
Florida had one of its best practices all year.
And then Florida won on Tuesday, recording  
its largest margin of victory since its 32-point win against Auburn on Jan. 23.
The Gators will look to begin a winning streak 
on Sunday, while also sustaining the offensive success they saw against UNF.
“You want to grow as men, you want to grow 
with character, you want to continue to improve over the course of a long marathon basketball 
season,” White said. 
“And in that regard I think we have.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 27UF's 29-point win against UNF was its 
largest margin of victory since Jan. 23
according to the report.
He eventually let his girlfriend out, forced 
her to sit in the car and drove her to a remote, 
swampy area near a pier, where he again threatened her with the gun and demanded the necklace, according to the report.
His girlfriend, in an attempt to pacify 
Dukes, said she could pay him back if they drove to her bank in Jacksonville, according to the report.
After Dukes drove the woman to get her 
own car, he followed her to Jacksonville. They stopped for gas in Waldo, where Dukes argued with the woman before he punched through her car’s window, according to the report.
Dukes violated an injunction ﬁ  led by his 
girlfriend when police found a gun case and ammunition in his apartment Thursday, ac-cording to the report.
Police arrested Dukes on charges of ag-
gravated assault, battery, the display of a ﬁ  rearm during a felony, contempt of court and two charges of kidnapping.
Police took Dukes to the Alachua County 
Jail, where he is being held without bond as of press time.
Dukes won ﬁ  ve national titles and earned 
17 All-America honors while competing with the Florida track and ﬁ  eld team from 2012-2015, primarily competing in sprint and relay events.
He was part of the school’s record-setting 
4x100- and 4x400-meter relay teams and also owns the second-fastest indoor and outdoor 200-meter dash times in school history at 20.34 seconds and 19.97 seconds, respec-tively. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgDUKES,  from pg 27Dukes won 
ive national titles at FloridaAP Photo
Florida head coach Mike White speaks during a timeout during Florida's 
97-68 win against North Florida in the ﬁ  rst round of the National Invitation T ournament on Tuesday in Jacksonville.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Logan Shore pitches during Florida's 4-2 win against Florida Gulf Coast on Feb. 19 at McKethan Stadium.
Deacon Liput jogs to ﬁ  rst base after drawing a walk during Florida's 6-0 win against Florida State on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium.
Jordan McPherson  / Alligator Staff30   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
By Alejandro Lopez
Sports Writer
Alex McMurtry’s pain began 
as a sophomore in high school. 
A simple stress fracture in her 
spine wasn’t supposed to cause 
this much discomfort.
But one fracture became 
three, and her training regimen 
was soon dictated by pain out of 
her control.
However, four years later, the 
Gators gymnastics sophomore’s lack of a floor routine was the 
only competitive consequence. 
A year-and-a-half of eligibility 
would pass, but her inaugural 
performance on Feb. 26 proved 
that her back no longer stood be-
tween her and the mat. 
Now, heading into Saturday’s 
Southeastern Conference Cham-pionships, McMurtry will not 
only compete for the Gators, but 
also for herself, as she makes her postseason all-around debut.
And she’s not afraid.
“Going into SECs this year, 
I’m super excited,” McMurtry 
said. “I don’t think the nerves are gonna get to me.”
      
From the beginning, McMur-
try’s skill was evident.
A talented athlete, the Midlo-
thian, Virginia, native made her rounds on the junior circuit, racking up titles on the state and national levels.
The 2013 Nastia Liukin Su-
pergirl Cup Senior vault, bal-
ance beam, floor and all-around 
champion made a name for her-self as a complete competitor.
But her back injury persisted, 
forcing the four-time J.O. Olym-pic National Team member out of the all-around classification in 2014 in the interest of preserving her back.
In spite of this, UF — then 
under the direction of Rhonda Faehn — had offered her a spot in its recruiting class the year 
prior.
Despite participating in 
roughly a quarter of the team’s 
practices, McMurtry quickly established herself as an elite 
competitor in the SEC, posting a 
perfect 10 on vault in only her second collegiate meet. 
“Honestly, for me, it’s all 
about training smart,” McMurtry said. “I can’t put in the numbers (in practice).”
She didn’t need them. A successful first year ended 
with four All-America selections and a national title, foreshadow-ing things to come.
“There are some athletes who 
have to get that way by doing massive amounts of numbers,” 
Faehn said in late January, 2015, 
“and then there’s other athletes that cannot do as many numbers 
and they know how to get where 
they need to be, and that’s Alex.”
But for all her freshman suc-
cess, she had one thing left to ac-complish.
      
On Feb. 26, 2016, McMurtry 
cracked the rotation for the first time.
Almost two years after she 
competed on floor at the 2014 Junior Olympic National Cham-pionships, she took the mat once 
more in a home meet against 
LSU.
If there were any worries as 
to whether she would falter un-der the combined gaze of 7,129 
sets of eyes, she gracefully set 
them at ease.
Her 9.900 equaled the highest 
debut floor score ever recorded 
by a Gators gymnast, placing her 
in the company of former All-Americans Alaina Johnson and Kytra Hunter.
McMurtry followed that per-
formance up with yet another 9.900 in an away meet against Kentucky, missing out on the all-around title by 0.025 points 
to teammate Bridget Sloan and 
solidifying her reputation as an all-around force.
“We’re very happy that 
Alex had a great meet, as is she,” Rowland said. “We were 
just looking, we actually were 
not prepared to compete her again until SEC’s. However, we thought (that) just for her con-fidence level that might be nec-essary, and she was up for the challenge.”
And that next challenge is 
shaping up as her stiffest to date.
“I’m thrilled,” McMurtry said. “I’ve done everything I can, and having two all-rounds already under my belt for the season, I think I’m ready. … I can’t wait 
to compete all-around.”
      
Things are boding well for 
both McMurtry and the Gators’ 
championship hopes. 
As the No. 1-seed heading 
into Saturday’s SEC Champion-ships, the team is in a familiar position. They’ve been the SEC’s top seed for six of the last seven years.
Over the last two seasons, few 
Florida gymnasts have played a larger role in the team’s success than McMurtry. 
Her return to the floor brings 
more key depth to the rotation, adding yet another component to Florida’s third-ranked floor unit.
“I’m super excited for Alex to 
compete,” sophomore Kennedy Baker said. “She’s one of my best friends, and just watching her be able to do all-around is so 
inspiring, so amazing. Just to be 
able to do floor with her, I’m re-ally looking forward to it.”
However, while securing her 
first conference championship is 
a priority, McMurtry is focused 
on improvement. 
The sophomore has more to 
give, and Saturday is another op-
portunity to show it. 
“You just want to perform,” 
McMurtry said, “because that’s 
what we’ve been doing our whole lives.” 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgAlex McMurtry overcoming injury
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alex McMurtry cheers on a teammate while sporting an ice pack on her back during Florida’s win against Arkansas on Feb. 12.She’s competing on loor again
Alex McMurtry performs on ﬂ  oor during Florida’s loss to 
LSU on Feb. 26 in the O’Connell Center.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   31
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
The Florida men’s tennis team has been 
defined by two trends so far this season.
First, the Gators have been unstoppable 
in front of their fans at the Ring Tennis 
Complex, boasting a flawless 5-0 record. 
Second, UF has struggled to seize opportu-nities against elite-level programs, sporting a lackluster 0-4 record versus teams ranked in the top 15.
Tonight, however, one of those two 
streaks will end, as No. 24 Florida (7-4, 2-1 Southeastern Conference) faces No. 13 Ar-kansas (13-3, 3-1 SEC) at 5 in Gainesville.
The Razorbacks will be by far the most 
talented team the Gators have faced at home  to this point in the season, with UF having previously battled only one top-60 team at the Ring Tennis Complex and none inside the top 30.
Arkansas has won 10 of its last 11 
matches, including a win last Friday against then-No. 7 Texas A&M, and the 
Razorbacks also feature one of the SEC’s 
top singles players in redshirt junior Mike Redlicki.
Florida’s home schedule will continue to 
toughen, though, with three more match-ups in Gainesville against top 25 teams. Ole Miss comes to town on Sunday, Vir-ginia visits on April 6 and Kentucky comes to town on April 15.
A large emphasis is being placed on con-
ditioning over the final month of the regu-lar season for Florida, as UF does not have more than five days off between matches for the rest of the spring.
“We’ve got to take care of our bodies,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said. “We’re going to continue to train and continue to push, but do it the right way so that our guys can be 
fresh and ready to go every weekend.”Four of the Gators’ next six matches will 
also be played at home, which provides a 
huge boost to the players’ confidence.
“They really energize us,” sophomore 
Chase Perez-Blanco said. “When it’s a big point, they pump us up, so it’s a lot of fun to play here at home.”
Perez-Blanco and his teammates are 
coming off of one of their most impressive 
victories of the season last Friday, defeat-
ing Auburn 7-0 at home in a match during which the Gators won every singles and doubles set that was played to completion. 
“We’re getting ready for a big run,” 
freshman McClain Kessler said. “I feel it.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
Gators set for challenging home match against ArkansasTHE REBELS ARE COMING OFF 
BACK-TO-BACK LOSSES.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
When the Florida women’s tennis team plays 
Ole Miss today, it will have its hands full.
Not only is it playing in one of the toughest en-
vironments in the Southeastern Conference, but it 
is also going up against one of its toughest oppo-nents.
The No. 13 Gators (9-2, 4-0 SEC) travel to Ox-
ford, Mississippi, to take on the Rebels (8-3, 1-3 SEC) at the Palmer/Salloum Tennis Complex at 4 p.m. Florida leads the all-time series 43-3.
“They play well at home also, and the court set-
up is really tricky,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. 
“Since they are right on top of us, our players have 
to have tough skin, clearly.”
Last time these two teams met, the Gators took 
a 5-2 win after securing a doubles point that went 
to two tie-breakers.
This season, the Gators have been superb in 
doubles play.
In 11 games, Florida has won the doubles points 
10 times.
Its only loss came on Thursday against then-
No. 19 Kentucky in a dual match that saw Florida 
sweep all six singles matches. 
Today’s match will feature a bounty of ranked 
contests on both sides.
In doubles, Ole Miss has one ranked pairing in 
No. 27 Arianne Hartono and Mai El Kamash.The Gators, on the other hand, have four.
Led by No. 49 Hartono in singles, Ole Miss also 
features four other ranked players in No. 62 El Ka-
mash, No. 73 Tea Jandric, No. 79 Natalie Suk and No. 116 Allie Sanford.
To compare, Florida has six of its players ranked: 
No. 5 Belinda Woolcock, No. 15 Brooke Austin, No. 37 Kourtney Keegan, No. 81 Anna Danilina, No. 108 Josie Kuhlman and No. 121 Brianna Morgan.
So far this season, Florida’s depth in singles 
has been evident. Every player on the team has clinched at least one game.
Additionally, the bottom of the singles lineup 
has boosted Florida’s success.
In Saturday’s match against then-No. 5 Vander-
bilt, Florida’s three singles victories came from the fourth, fifth and sixth courts rather than the first three. 
In addition, Morgan is currently on a four match 
win streak and is undefeated in SEC play. 
The Rebels have the advantage of playing at 
home, but are coming off back-to-back 4-3 losses against No. 18 LSU and No. 14 Texas A&M. 
This is the first game of a weekend Mississippi 
road trip that also features a matchup with Missis-sippi State on Sunday. 
“It’s going to be an interesting environment, 
clearly. It’s going to be loud, and they have a very 
talented team,” Thornqvist said. “But we’ve talked 
all along, the whole SEC season is great preparation for the postseason. There’s not one weak team.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFlorida to face Ole Miss in Oxford
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Chase Perez-Blanco returns a ball during Florida’s win against Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Belinda Woolcock returns a ball during Florida’s win against South 
Florida on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
32   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelly Barnhill (center) celebrates with teammates during Florida’s doubleheader sweep against Jack-
sonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
Kelly Barnhill was on fire on 
Wednesday. 
Coming off the freshman’s 
historic 18-strikeout performance 
against Winthrop — a school re-
cord for a single pitcher in a game 
— the No. 1 Florida softball team (27-1, 2-1 Southeastern Confer-ence) is looking to build momen-tum during its upcoming weekend series at home against No. 16 Ten-nessee (21-5, 3-0 SEC) starting to-night at 7. 
After Wednesday’s strong out-
ing, Barnhill ranks third in the country with 11.5 strikeouts per game. 
“If she gets ahead in the count, 
it really makes it tough on you be-cause she does throw so hard and at different speeds,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“She doesn’t pitch to contact. 
She gets a lot of swings and miss-
es.”
The dominant performance is 
sure to be a confidence booster for 
Barnhill as SEC play continues. 
She experienced the roughest 
outing of her career in her first conference game Sunday against No. 3 Auburn, tagged for four runs on four hits in just three innings. 
Barnhill’s improving poise will 
be an important component to the Gators’ success as the team gets into the thick of its conference schedule. 
Up next is Tennessee, one of 
the few teams that Florida has struggled against in recent years. 
The Gators have lost five of 
their last six matchups against the Volunteers, including a three-game sweep in the 2014 regular season. 
But Florida’s lone victory dur-
ing that span came when the stakes were highest, as UF beat UT 7-2 in the first game of the 2015 Women’s College World Series. 
This season, while the Gators 
have been successful against ranked opponents, the Volunteers have been anything but. 
In four games against teams in 
the top 25, Tennessee has lost ev-ery time. 
Florida leads the all-time series 
42-24 and holds a noteworthy 22-5 mark at home. 
“We like playing Tennessee. 
It’s always a good series,” senior catcher Aubree Munro said. 
“We usually try to focus on us 
and … what we want to go out there and do. It’s not about who we’re playing, it’s about us and playing our game.” 
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.orgFlorida softball preparing for Tennessee
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Last season, then-No. 5 Florida 
traveled to College Park, Mary-
land, to face the No. 1 Terrapins, hoping to pull off its third victory over a No. 1 opponent in program history.
Then-senior midfielder Shan-
non Gilroy scored the first goal of the match fewer than two minutes 
in. The Gators were headed in the 
right direction, but the Terps re-covered. A 16-5 run resulted in a lopsided Maryland win.
On Saturday at noon, Florida 
will get another crack at No. 1 Maryland (5-0).
This time, it will be at Donald 
R. Dizney Stadium. And this time, 
the Gators are better equipped for 
the challenge that lies ahead.
Last year, the Maryland game 
followed Florida’s overtime loss to 
Syracuse in Gainesville.
However, coming into this sea-
son’s matchup, UF is 9-0 and has won six games against ranked op-ponents.
“I think we have more confi-
dence this year,” senior attacker 
Devon Schneider said.
“We kinda have a swag now 
— a cockiness about us — and I 
think that will help.”
That confidence has resulted 
in a diverse attack — consisting of five double-digit goal scorers thus far — combined with an over-whelming back line.
The Florida defense has al-
lowed just 18 goals in the last three games and just two second-half goals in the past two matches.
The latter statistic can be at-
tributed to halftime defensive ad-justments made by coach Amanda O’Leary. But a halftime adjustment may 
come too late if Saturday’s game gets out of hand — Maryland holds the No. 2 scoring offense in the country. 
“It’s really critical against a 
team like Maryland that they go out and they make those adjust-ments themselves,” O’Leary said.
Following Monday’s 15-7 win 
over No. 17 Towson, O’Leary said that the biggest thing the Gators needed to work on is avoiding un-
forced turnovers.
“We have to put them in un-
comfortable situations in prac-
tice,” she said.
Those scenarios consist mostly 
of high-pressure plays that will force Florida to make hurried de-cisions.
Draw controls, another area 
where the Gators have struggled, 
could be the deciding factor in the 
game. Florida has a -2 draw-con-trol margin this season.
Junior Mollie Stevens, who is 
playing in her first game since re-
ceiving a red card in last Friday’s 
match against Boston College, will look to alleviate the draw control problems. The midfielder is sec-ond on the team in draw controls with 16 on the year.
On the other end of the draw 
circle will be Maryland senior Tay-lor Cummings, who O’Leary said was one of the best in the NCAA at taking draw possessions.
The Gators feel they are up to 
the task in what is looking to be the biggest non-postseason game in the seven years of UF lacrosse.
“It’ll be a challenge for us,” 
O’Leary said. 
“But certainly one that we’re 
looking forward to.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgGators to face No. 1 
Maryland at homeLACROSSE
UF is 22-5 against UT at home