We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 102 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
UF basketball is uncertain of its 
NCAA Tournament hopes
Florida lost to ‘Bama on Sunday, pg. 13
‘Lesbians on the Lawn’
Queer students provide support over lunch, pg. 5
Fifth SwampCon held, hosts cosplayers and concert
The event was hosted by UF’s amine club, pg. 8New businesses roundup
Cookies, markets and farms opening 
in Gainesville, pg. 9
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
UF was Ryan Lott’s dream school.  
The then-17-year-old New Jersey high 
school senior was one of 30,800 who applied for a spot with UF’s class of 2019. To separate himself from those students, he sent an ad-
missions ofﬁ  cer a dozen red roses and about eight chocolate chip cookies, which cost $30. 
He also sent a $25 T.G.I. Friday’s gift card.
A few weeks later, he was accepted to UF.Each year, more students apply to Flori-
da’s top colleges, but roughly the same num-ber are admitted. To stand out from other applicants, students send food, ﬂ  owers, jew-elry, photo albums and videos to admissions ofﬁ  cers.On Friday, UF invited 13,624 students 
to join UF’s class of 2020. With more than 32,000 applicants, the school’s acceptance rate went from 44.4% for the class of 2019 to 42.5% for this year’s admits.
Lott, now an 18-year-old UF exploratory 
freshman, said he thinks his odd gifts to ad-missions ofﬁ  cers helped him get accepted to UF.
“I was a little nervous, deﬁ  nitely. It’s tough 
to get into from the New Jersey area,” he said.
      Dacia Bowra, a UF admissions ofﬁ  cer for 
the last 10 years, said gifts don’t affect appli-cants’ chances. When UF is sent small items, such as ﬂ  owers and food, they are put out for the entire ofﬁ  ce. Items of greater value, such 
as gift cards or jewelry, are sent back.
But despite this policy, she said she’s no-
ticed more students like Lott trying to stand 
out in one way or another.
Once, a student sent her an orange and 
blue chair after being told there was a limited number of seats available at UF.Prospective students compete to stand out
CAMPUS
By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Between 2013 and 2014, UF 
gave more engineering bache-lor’s degrees to women than any other college in the state.
The College of Engineering 
announced Thursday it gave 271 engineering bachelor’s degrees to women. The University of Cen-tral Florida awarded 156, and Florida International University awarded 124. 
Emily Huber, the president 
of UF’s Society of Women Engi-neers, said she wasn’t surprised 
by the statistic. She said there are 
60 to 70 active members in her organization.
Huber, a UF mechanical and 
aerospace engineering senior, said she decided to become an engineer because of her love for math and science, which started at a young age. The 21-year-old 
said she hopes more women pur-sue careers in engineering.
“Don’t be intimidated by the 
classes you have to take,” she said. “Math and science are dif-
ﬁ  cult but deﬁ  nitely meaningful once you master a speciﬁ  c sub-ject.”
Jennifer Andrew, an assistant 
professor of engineering, wrote in an email that women are a minority among engineering ma-jors.
Andrew said students should 
look for a career that makes them happy.
“Find something that you re-
ally enjoy and that you are pas-sionate about,” she said.UF has most engineer 
degrees for women
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a UF student Saturday 
night after they said he drove his Mazda 
off a small brick wall near the Hub.
At about 11:30 p.m., Seth Jacob Voigt, 
27, stood on the Reitz Union North Lawn 
and told police he planned to call an Uber 
after driving over the 2-foot brick wall.Shannon Poage watched Voigt drive 
his car over the wall and walk away, ac-
cording to the report. Poage, a UF stu-
dent, then called the police.
On Sunday, the wall was left chipped 
and scratched. Pieces of brick lied scat-tered nearby.
Police said Voigt was drunk when 
they found him, and that he later reg-istered .177 and .172 on a breath test, which is two times the legal limit, accord-ing to the report.
Voigt is listed as a student on UF’s on-
line directory.
When police asked him about the ac-
cident, Voigt said he drove over the wall, parked his car and planned to call an Uber, according to the report.
It is unknown how Voigt made it on 
top of the wall. Neither Voigt nor Poage could be 
reached for comment as of press time.
Police arrested Voigt on charges of 
hit and run and DUI with property dam-age. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Sun-day on a $3,500 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: student crashed near Hub, charged with DUISEE COMPETITIVE,  PAGE 4
Voigt
13,624 were accepted to UF
SHINE BRIGHT
Jamie Estaver, 18, dances during Night to Shine, a prom event for people with special needs. 
About 100 guests and 300 volunteers came to the dance at Grace at Fort Clarke United Methodist Church on Friday. Turn to page 3 for the full story and photo gallery. 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff“Math and science are 
diicult but deinitely 
meaningful once you master 
a speciic subject.”
Emily Huber
president of UF’s Society of 
Women EngineersSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Faculty recital: Duo Anno 1647 
featuring Kristen Stoner 
playing the flute
The UF School of Music pres-
ents a performance by Duo Anno 1647, including UF fac-ulty member Dr. Kristen Stoner 
(flute) and guest artist Manabu 
Takasawa (piano), from the University of Rhode Island, today at 7:30 p.m. The perfor-mance is in the Music Building, 
Room 101, and it is free and 
open to the public. They will perform “Poem” by Charles Griffes, “Ballade” by Frank 
Martin, “Deep Blue” by Ian 
Clarke, “Sonatina” by Camargo Guarnieri, “First Sonata” by Bohuslav Martinu and “Soliloquy” by Jake Heggie.
Paint the White House black
UF’s African-American Studies program will sponsor two lec-
tures examining the presidency 
of Barack Obama on Wednesday and Thursday. Both lectures are co-sponsored by the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service, UF’s Department of 
Political Science and UF’s Center for the Humanities and the Public Sphere. At the 
first event, Wednesday at 6 
p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora, Michael Jeffries, an associate professor of American Studies at Wellesley College, will dis-
cuss his book “Paint the White 
House Black: Barack Obama and the Meaning of Race in America.” Professor Jeffries re-
ceived a doctorate in African-
American studies with an emphasis in sociology from Harvard University.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology 
Building, situated at 970 
Natural Area Drive, UF cam-pus, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum. Everyone is wel-come to attend and learn about 
Toastmasters. For details about 
Talking Gators, go to talking-gators.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook 
group page. “The mission of 
Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learn-ing experience in which mem-bers are empowered to develop 
communication and leader-ship skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal 
growth.”
Annual Ronald Foreman Jr. 
lecture
On Thursday at 6 p.m. in the 
Pugh Hall Ocora, Professor 
Fredrick Harris, a professor of political science and director of the Center on African American 
Politics and Society, will give 
the annual Ronald Foreman Jr. lecture, which honors the UF African American Studies pro-gram’s first director. Professor 
Harris conducts research on 
racial and ethnic political par-ticipation, social movements, religion and politics; however, 
his primary specialization is 
African-American politics. The title of his lecture is “The Rise, Decline, and Rebirth of Black Politics in the Age of Obama,” 
from his book, “The Price of the 
Ticket: Barack Obama and the Rise and Fall of Black Politics (Oxford University, 2012).”
Enter the Pepsi Gators Give 
Back ContestCalling all creative problem solvers! Help Library West go 
green. Write a 150- to 500-
word essay describing an idea to advance sustainability is-sues within Library West, and 
you could win $500 in Pepsi 
products. Today is the last day UF students can submit their ideas to bsd.ufl.edu/g1c/ze-rowaste.
Sex in the Swamp Returns to 
UF on ThursdayThe Alpha Lambda chapter 
of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF, 
in partnership with the UF Student Health Care Center, is proud to announce a renewed Sex in the Swamp event com-
ing to the Florida Gym on 
Thursday. Starting at 7 p.m., join campus and community organizations for a variety of 
great Spring Break tips, in-
formation and freebies, in-cluding: a live SEXpert panel, Spring Break tips, free food, giveaways and free tank tops 
and sunglasses for the first 
200 students. For more in-formation and to RSVP on Facebook, visit facebook.com/
events/1666178790317109.
Florida Museum closed Feb. 22 
to Feb. 24The Florida Museum of 
Natural History, including the 
“Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit, 
will be closed Feb. 22 to Feb. 24 for preventive fumigation to protect its Lepidoptera col-lections and library resources. 
The museum will reopen Feb. 
25. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for more information.
Harn Museum Writing competi-
tion: Words on CanvasWords on Canvas is a yearly writing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art 
for college students interested 
in inspiring museumgoers by writing poetry or prose con-nected with a work of art. All 
UF and Santa Fe College stu-
dents are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will be awarded Harn merchandise and students may submit until 
Sunday. Entry is simple and 
free of charge. For more infor-mation, please visit our web-site at harn.ufl.edu/wordson-
canvas.
Chinese American Student 
Association presents:
A Chinese New Year Gala 
to celebrate the Year of the 
Monkey. Come join us for a night of festivity and fun with performances, food, raffles and 
cultural activities. All are invit-
ed to our free celebration.Where: Reitz Union Grand BallroomWhen: Sunday — doors open 
at 6 p.m., show begins at 6:30 
p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event be-fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above 
events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 102
HIGH  75° LOW  51°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Felicia Solazzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
After they posed for a photo with 
UF’s Albert and Alberta, people of 
all ages walked down a red carpet at Friday’s Night to Shine, a prom for people with special needs.
Each time volunteer Chuck Wise 
announced a guest’s name, lights ﬂ  ashed as more than 20 journalists and volunteer paparazzi took pho-tos.
“The king of prom has arrived,” 
said someone from the crowd. 
“I love that dress,” another pa-
parazzo said. 
The Tim Tebow Foundation 
started the international event last year, and Grace at Fort Clarke United Methodist Church hosted Friday’s dance for the second year in a row. 
Wise, the church’s former youth 
minister for 20 years, grinned and clapped as he introduced more than 
100 guests, who each wore a tiara 
or crown. 
“Watching them come up the 
red carpet, and watching their faces while all dressed up and all this at-tention being paid to them — it’s just fun,” he said.
Wise said he retired from the 
church in February 2015. He and his 
wife, Gail, returned for the prom, 
which he described as magical.
“We have people go all over the 
world, building wells and houses,” Wise said. “But I heard a number of people say, ‘This is the best thing we’ve ever done.’”
When the distinguished guests 
weren’t dancing to songs such as 
“YMCA,” they ate dinner from 
Chuy’s Tex-Mex and sang karaoke. Outside, limos offered rides around the neighborhood. 
Throughout the night, volunteer 
“buddies” accompanied each guest.Volunteer Morgan Lockhart, a 
High Springs resident, accompanied Bianca, 15.
“I have some ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  ops hidden 
in my bag in case my feet start to hurt,” Lockhart said.”The ﬁ  rst thing she (Bianca) told me was, ‘I love to dance.’” 
Jamie Estaver, 18, danced in her 
purple gown and tiara. Her mother, Rosa Estaver, said Jamie picked out 
her dress and shoes.
“Makeup was huge, so she 
bought a lot of makeup,” Rosa Es-taver said. “She did her own make-up. She’s great at that.”
Kristen Thompson, the event’s 
marketing coordinator, said the 
prom was even better than expect-ed.
Night to Shine has grown to 200 
churches in seven countries, which simultaneously host about 32,000 guests with the help of more than 70,000 volunteers, she said. 
Thompson said she hopes the 
event becomes synonymous with Valentine’s Day.
“The Tim Tebow Foundation 
has always wanted to transform Valentine’s Day weekend from a weekend of love to a weekend of God’s love for people with special needs,” she said.
Prom crowns guests with special needs during local event
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Lexie Matheo, a UF health science freshman, dances with Rosemary, 19, at Night to Shine. Matheo was Rosemary’s buddy, accompanying 
her the entire night. “It is almost like you’re not even volunteering, ” Matheo said. “It’s so fulﬁ  lling. ”
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Volunteer Morgan Lockhart (left), a High Springs resident, poses for a photo with Bianca, 15, at Night to Shine on Friday. Lockhart was Bianca’s buddy at the prom. “I work with pediatrics at Shands, so I’m really experienced and have a love for all children no matter what situation, ” Lockhart said.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Hayley Reavely walks down the red carpet as she enters Night to Shine on Friday at Grace at Fort Clarke United Methodist Church. The Tim T ebow Foundation started the international event last year.The prom was held Friday night“He said that he won’t take up that much 
space,” she said.
Another student sent in a Wheaties box 
with his picture on the box and quotes about 
how great he was, she said. The box’s nutri-
tional information showed the student’s’ aca-
demic record.
Letters of recommendation are another 
way students try to diversify themselves from others, Bowra said. Parents will have sena-tors and state representatives write letters. But they’ve gotten other letters as well.
“There was a letter of recommendation 
from a dog,” she said.
It’s also common for students to send in 
treats, such as jam, apple butter and cookies, she said.
What Bowra remembers most, she said, is 
one student who sent cookies to the office ev-ery month for about five months.
But UF isn’t the only school to receive odd 
gifts from prospective students.
•   •   •
At the University of South Florida, Da-
vid Lee Henry, the admissions director since 2010, said he hasn’t seen students send much more than photo albums.
“There’s traditionally a lot of creativity that 
goes into these photos and albums,” he said.
The albums are usually painted green and 
gold with the USF bulls symbol on top, he said. But unlike admissions officers at other Florida universities, he said USF has seen less of these gifts in the past two years.
“They’re just really trying to sell the fact 
that ‘I’m a bull, I bleed green and gold,’” he said.
At the University of Central Florida, the 
admissions department receives yellow and black photo albums, with pictures of high school students dressed in UCF clothes, said Gordon Chavis, the vice president of admis-sions.
He said he remembers one student who wanted to study photography sent a picture of herself dressed up as a knight, UCF’s mascot.
UCF’s admissions have gotten more com-
petitive, he said, and students have tried to make them stand out because of that.
“I think they try to emulate whatever they 
think the institution wants,” he said. “If you really want to impress us, send us black and gold.”
He said one student sent enough Papa 
John’s pizza for the entire admissions staff — about 75 people, to boost his chances.
“Over the years, they just kind of blur,” 
he said.
•   •   •
Even with elaborate gestures, some stu-
dents can’t face their rejections. It’s a day that Maureen Yeung, a UF admissions officer, doesn’t look forward to.
People will drive to UF after decisions 
come out, she said.
One student, after being denied admit-
tance, stood outside the office of a former admissions officer, holding a sign up to her window, Bowra said. The sign read, “Please admit me.”
A few parents have even moved to 
Gainesville, she said, taking a staff job at UF in the hopes there is a preference for children 
of faculty and staff. But there isn’t.
Parents have also offered to pay in full for 
their child’s tuition if admitted, Bowra said.
“There’s a gentleman from New York who 
offered to pay all four years of tuition right 
now,” she said.
Students have also forged a letter of ad-
missions to get in, Yeung said. When students receive their admissions letter, their friends 
who weren’t accepted will change the name 
on the letter and call admissions saying they were accepted, but haven’t received admis-sions materials.
“It’s heartbreaking,” she said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
On Tuesday, Molly Minta will go to 
Marston Science Library to vote in the UF 
Student Government elections.
“It’s important to me to make sure my 
voice is heard,” the 19-year-old UF politi-cal science freshman said.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, stu-
dents can use their Gator 1 Cards to vote for 50 student senators based on college and credit hour, Student Body president, Student Body vice President and Student Body Treasurer. Polls will be open from 
8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Students can also vote for online vot-
ing.
“Students should vote in order to have 
their voices heard,” Erica Baker, the UF 
supervisor of elections, wrote in an email.
If a polling location experiences issues, 
poll workers will direct students to anoth-er polling location.
She said students who requested ab-
sentee ballots can mail in their ballots.VOTING LOCATIONS:
• Broward Hall, in the library on the first floor
• J. Hillis Miller Health Science Center C2-041C
• Heavener Hall Academic Success Suite, Room 202
• Jennings Hall, in the library on 
the first floor
• Bruton-Geer Hall (in UF’s Levin 
College of Law): side hallways by 
the cafeteria
• Marston Science Library
• Murphree Area Commons confer-
ence area, Room 106
• Norman Hall Education Library
• Reitz Union Computer Lab
• Southwest Recreation Center
• Springs Area Office, Room C 202
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
SG Spring 2016 elections 
to start Tuesday
COMPETITIVE,  from pg1Some students send flowers and photo albums UF admits 
more than 
13,000 students
More than 13,000 students were in-
vited to be Gators on Friday.
UF admitted 13,624 students to start 
Fall or Summer B, UF spokesman Steve 
Orlando wrote in an email. UF’s Innova-tion Academy, in which students take classes Spring and Summer, admitted 
379 students, and UF’s Pathway to Cam-
pus Enrollment program, which started last year, admitted 2,137. PaCE students take their first 60 credits online.
Luke Anderson, a senior at Hills-
borough Virtual School, said UF was his first choice. The 18-year-old found out he was accepted to UF’s Innovation Academy on Friday. 
He said he hopes to major in finance 
and likes that he’ll also get a minor in innovation through IA.
“It was very exciting for me because 
I can explore other opportunities I don’t 
think other colleges could offer me,” 
Anderson said.
He said he became interested in at-
tending UF after visiting his brother, a 
current UF sophomore. While in his ju-
nior year of high school, he toured cam-pus and stayed with his brother at Beaty Towers.
While he worried he wouldn’t be ac-
cepted, he said he was excited to see the acceptance message.
“I didn’t really know what to think,” 
Anderson said. “It was really all I want-
ed.”
- Caitlin OstroffEmma Green / Alligator Staff
BABY BIKER
Marcelo De Oliveira, a 36-year-old artist, helps his daughter, Luana, 2, conduct a band 
on Turlington Plaza on Friday afternoon. Members of the band service fraternity, Kappa Kappa Psi, were waiting for passersby to conduct them as a way to promote the band and make music accessible to everyone, according to RJ Gammon, a band member.
T otal number of applicants
T otal number of students accepted 
T otal number of Admits for Fall and Summer B
Number accepted for the Fall semester
Number accepted for the 
Summer B
Number accepted for the PaCE   program
Number accepted for the  Innovation Academy programby the
NUMBERS
32,026
10,166
3,458
2,137
37916,140
Fall Admit Profile
• Mid 50% GPA 4.2 — 4.5
• Average GPA 4.35
• Mid 50% SAT 1820 — 2060
• Average SAT 1918
• Mid 50% ACT 28 — 32
• Average ACT 3013,624MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
QUEER STUDENTS PROVIDE 
SUPPORT OVER LUNCH.
By Rebecca White
Alligator Contributing Writer
Queer female students met on the Plaza of 
the Americas to talk about mental health and 
workplace issues facing them Friday.
About 30 students ate Krishna Lunch as 
they attended the ﬁ  rst Lesbians on the Lawn 
event of the semester. The weekly event, run 
by UF’s Pride Student Union and LGBT Af-fairs, started Fall 2014 to allow queer women to meet and talk.
The students sat on blankets in front of 
Smathers library. PSU and LGBT Affairs could only hold the event six times last semester because of weather and scheduling problems, said Tessa Arthur, a senior student ambassa-dor for LGBT Affairs.
Arthur said she wanted to bring Lesbians 
on the Lawn back this semester.
“I noticed the severe lack of queer women-
only spaces,” the 21-year-old UF marketing junior said. “I didn’t feel like UF had an en-vironment that could foster our identities and 
grant us the opportunity to meet other queer 
women like us.”
Macarena Baigorria, 23, said she ate 
Krishna Lunch and talked with others to help her ﬁ  nd friendship and support among other queer women.
“I love that it is just a space to relax and 
meet new people,” the UF mechanical engi-neering graduate student said. “I had great 
conversations this past Friday, and I was able 
to learn a lot from the other women that were there.” ‘ Lesbians on the Lawn’
By Catalina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
Members of a UF fraternity used a 
children’s game to educate students 
about human trafﬁ  cking Friday.Omega Delta Phi held its ﬁ  rst 
“Building a World Without Human Trafﬁ  cking” to educate students 
about human trafﬁ  cking on the Plaza 
of the Americas. The 60 silver and red blocks each had a fact about human trafﬁ  cking. A student would read the block he or she picked before placing it back on the stack.
These blocks had information 
about modern slavery, as well as lo-cal and national statistics of human trafﬁ  cking, said Dominique Lindsey-
Gonzalez, 20, the external vice presi-
dent and service chair of Omega Del-ta Phi and a UF sustainability in the built environment junior.
Rafael Cruzado, 27, the ofﬁ  ce 
manager for Multicultural and Diver-sity Affairs, pulled a red block from the wooden tower and said he was shocked when he read the statistics.
At the event, he learned human 
trafﬁ  cking is a problem in Alachua County because of its proximity to Interstate 75, he said. He said he was surprised because Gainesville is a 
college town.
“I learned about an issue that is 
invisible in this community,” Cru-
zado said.  
The organization wanted to edu-
cate students, said Jason Feliciano, the social media chair for Omega Delta Phi.
“People don’t know that it is still 
happening,” the 21-year-old UF pub-lic relations senior said. “Human traf-ﬁ  cking is a very lucrative and dan-gerous business, and I think it needs 
to be talked about to give people the 
power to change it,” he said.  UF fraternity uses Jenga to teachBy Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Eleven years later, seven sponsors host-
ed the second Veritas forum Saturday night.
Veritas, the Latin word for truth, is an 
international Christian-based program that 
hosts speakers who discuss the concept of 
truth, Derrick Hardin, a 21-year-old UF ap-
plied physiology and kinesiology senior, said.
On Saturday at 7:30 p.m., UF profes-
sor Lonn Lanza-Kaduce and University of Pennsylvania Law School professor David Skeel greeted a crowd of about 150 people at the Curtis M. Phillips Center for the Per-forming Arts.
Skeel, the S. Samuel Arsht Professor of 
Corporate Law at UPenn Law School, and Lanza-Kaduce, a professor of criminology and law, agreed that justice can be attained in several ways, none of which are wrong.
Skeel said justice is one of the hardest 
topics to discuss because everyone’s priori-ties are different.
Perhaps the real issue, Lanza-Kaduce 
said, is how to stop injustices from happen-ing at all.
“The bigger perspective would probably 
be exactly how to address what the causes of that (injustice) might be,” he said.
Joe Mueller, a 27-year-old UF alumnus, 
said he enjoys the way Veritas brings peo-ple together and allows them to share their opinions.
“The college campus and college atmo-
sphere is a very special place,” Mueller said. “People from all different cultures and all different backgrounds come together.”  Professors discuss justiceBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
On the side of Northwest 16th Av-
enue, a group of Ofﬁ  cer Scott Baird’s family, friends and colleagues lit can-dles in his memory.
Baird had been with the 
Gainesville Police Department for about a year when he responded to a call behind Gainesville High School on Feb. 12, 2001.
At about 4 a.m., Ofﬁ  cer Baird ar-rived to Northwest 16th Terrace — 
later named Scott Baird Boulevard — 
and found a large metal batting cage 
that blocked the road. Baird parked 
his patrol car, turned on his emer-gency lights and tried to move the obstruction. A driver then crashed into the cage, which then hit Baird.
He died at the age of 23.Police never identiﬁ  ed the driver, 
and they believe someone placed the cage in the road as a prank.
On Friday night, dozens of people honored Baird’s life as cars sped by the sidewalk where a memorial plaque now stands. 
GPD Ofﬁ  cer Michael “Catﬁ  sh” Ca-
vett said he will ride his bicycle 250 miles during the Police Unity Tour in Baird’s honor. His mother, Kelly Gaudet, remembered his smile.
“Fifteen years of holidays, birth-
days. And any time that we gather, we miss his smile, his laugh — and what an infectious laugh it was,” she said.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgVigil honors fallen GPD officer
LOCAL
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Veterans Entrepreneurship 
Program, which helps disabled 
veterans start and run businesses, 
is accepting applications until Feb. 
29.
Columbus Cook, an Army Na-
tional Guard veteran, received an email from VEP in 2013, the year 
it was established at UF. 
Cook launched Columbus 
Cook Studios, Inc., in May 2001, 
and he said the program helped him realize that his visual commu-
nications company needed work. 
He later turned his one-man 
operation into an enterprise with a 
staff of retired professionals. VEP 
helps the population of veterans 
switching from military to civilian life, Cook said, but the transition isn’t easy. 
“Don’t waste the resources, be-
cause there is lots of work needed on your end as a veteran and as an entrepreneur,” he said. 
Michael Morris, the founder of 
Gainesville’s VEP and the academ-ic director at UF’s Warrington Col-lege of Business, said the program started at Oklahoma State Univer-
sity eight years ago. 
He described parts of the pro-
gram, which includes an eight-
day class online and ﬁ  ve months of in-person training, including a 
“Shark Tank” for veterans. 
Forty veterans throughout 
America are picked each year, and their training is funded by dona-
tions from alumni and other pri-vate donors, Morris said. 
He said graduates of the pro-
gram have gone on to start any-thing from security services to non-proﬁ  t homeless shelters. 
“These men and women have 
paid a very high price for our free-
dom,” he said. “This is a way to 
help them create their own fu-ture.”  Program helps veterans 
create businessesMartin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Michael “Catﬁ  sh” Cavett (right), a Gainesville police ofﬁ  cer, lights 
his candle with other attendees to a vigil remembering the life of fallen Ofﬁ  cer Scott Baird on Friday night at NW 16th T errace. 
Rafael Cruzado, 27, the office manager for Multicultural and Diversity Affairs, takes a piece from a Jenga tower at Omega Delta Phi’s first “Building a World Without Human Trafficking” event. Each of the 60 silver and red pieces had a fact about human trafficking written on it.
Catalina Ruiz / Alligator“Don’t waste the resources, 
because there is lots of 
work needed on your end 
as a veteran and as an 
entrepreneur.”
Columbus Cook  
Army National Guard veteran  It’s been 15 yearsThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnKanye West, 
polarization and 
American discourse
Fans of Kanye West have had quite the month: As we dis-
cussed in the last Darts & Laurels of January, the pre-release hype leading up to the Saturday release of his new album, “The Life of Pablo,” has been rife with petty Twit-ter feuds, grandiose promises and more ﬁ  ts and starts than 
college students begrudgingly trying to write their term papers. The PR campaign — if it could even be called that — reached its manic climax last Thursday, when the album premiered along-side West’s clothing line at the Yeezy Season 3 fashion event in Madison Square Garden. Unfortunately for those who spent their time and/or money on the show, the album was as half-baked as its promotion.
The event itself, wherein hundreds of models stood around 
pensively (some with tears in their eyes) while Kanye and 
friends passed around an auxiliary cord to play music, rep-
resents everything West’s work has been as of late: bold and blazingly self-congratulatory while ultimately hollow. The fash-ion-show-album-premiere-exercise in profound narcissism was simulcast to the Internet and in theatres across the nation, and 20 million people reportedly tuned in to see the fruits of Kanye’s apparent labors. From a raw numbers perspective, that is a ring-ing endorsement of the sizable impact West’s music has had on pop culture since the 2004 release of his debut record “The 
College Dropout,” to say nothing of its effects on the lives of 
listeners, many in the Alligator ofﬁ  ce included. 
However, it seems as though Kanye’s fan base was much 
more invested in the new release than he was. Sonically, the new album (we really don’t like typing out a name as seem-ingly meaningless as “The Life of Pablo”; oops, did it again) is the sound of a man who stopped caring long ago: an hourlong collection of good-to-great ideas failing to coalesce into anything of consequence. Whether this was the end result of a lack of 
discipline or an abundance of narcissism, we may never know. 
We have a feeling it was a bit of both.
Everything since Yeezy Season 3, including the album’s ac-
tual release to Tidal and the accompanying “Saturday Night Live” performance, has possessed the urgency and drive of a snail covered in molasses. In spite of this, many disparate tribes in the Internet’s collective horde have been tripping over them-selves to speak the album’s praises, with phrases like “GOAT” (Greatest of all time, for those of you who have never had the 
misfortune of reading select online hip-hop message boards) 
and “hype af” being thrown around like it ain’t no thang. 
Art is, of course, subjective, but the talk surrounding Kanye’s 
new album and much of pop culture is just that: hype. In a quintessentially 21st-century fashion, Kanye West has managed to direct how listeners interact with and interpret his work pure-ly on the merits of his ego alone. Given the… strong feelings aroused by his public persona, this has resulted in a polariza-tion of opinion, where one must not merely enjoy or be disap-
pointed by Kanye’s music, but either “LOVE” or “HATE” it. 
When it comes to Kanye West, there is little to no room for 
nuance or discourse, and the same can be said for other public 
ﬁ  gures of importance, including our politicians and artists. In the past we have spoken extensively on the need for temper-ance and subtlety with regards to how the American public pro-cesses and dissects the issues of our time. 
The Kanye fans in us wishes we didn’t have to use his new 
album as a populist example of this train of thought; the critical 
journalists in us know it’d be dishonest to do otherwise.
Be Ted Cruz, not Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren
As the sole conservative columnist of the 
Alligator, I bravely lead my “wolf pack of one” each week to advocate a conser-vative point of view and dispute my lib-eral colleagues in the opinions section.
I’ll gladly use this column to perform my lat-
ter role. Last week, an editorial told students, “Don’t be a Ted Cruz.” Of course, bashing Sen. Cruz, R-Texas, is nothing new on this campus. Although Gov. Jeb Bush, R-Fla., is my ﬁ  rst choice, Cruz is my very, very strong second.
Naturally, I was very dismayed reading the editorial, but 
I couldn’t say I was surprised. And I was certainly not sur-prised reading this in the piece: “Here at the Alligator, we’re 
often accused of being a bastion of frightful liberal bias… 
We’re also aware that some believe we let liberal politicians in the U.S. — if such a thing, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Ma., excepted, even truly ex-ists — off the hook for their transgressions, reserving our vitriol solely for conservative politicians and persons of im-portance.”
The jesting editorial goes on to say students should not 
strive to be like Ted Cruz because his undergraduate and 
law school classmates didn’t think he had a very good per-
sonality. 
Even his former roommates don’t support his presiden-
tial run! Because of these clearly non-trivial reasons, stu-dents should forget Cruz and support someone else. Kids, “Don’t be a Ted Cruz.”
For some reason, I don’t think the editorial’s arguments 
are persuasive. I think being a Ted Cruz is extremely envi-able, but let me ﬁ  rst attack the article’s argument.  
Sticking with the not-being-surprised theme of this col-
umn, I’m not surprised that students at an extremely liberal college, Princeton University, and an extremely liberal law school, Harvard Law School, would ﬁ  nd Ted Cruz, a very vocal conservative, disagreeable. If I was a liberal student at those schools, I wouldn’t like having my arguments con-stantly being dismantled by the champion debater.
The fact that Type-A, Harvard-educated lawyers don’t like Cruz makes me like Cruz more.  
As for the disgruntled roommate, I for one 
can very conﬁ  dently say I am probably not the best roommate. Like Cruz, my roommates are probably not in my future base of political sup-
port. But then again, who among us is a fantas-
tic roommate?
Now, here’s why you should be a Ted Cruz.You should strive to be the best. Cruz is a 
remarkably driven individual. As the son of a Cuban immigrant who spoke little to no English, 
Cruz earned his spot at Princeton. There, he was a cham-pion debater. He then went to the illustrious Harvard Law School where he was deemed a “terriﬁ  c student” and one 
of “the top students” of the extremely liberal professor Alan 
Dershowitz. 
Cruz became a law clerk to the chief justice of the U.S., 
which is not an easy feat! Later, he bested an establishment candidate in a Texas Senate race and is at war with both Democrats and Republicans. While being attacked by both sides, he stays ideologically pure and resilient in the face of intense criticism, especially from college newspapers that attack not only his policies but his personality.
I say very emphatically, “Be a Ted Cruz.”But don’t be an Elizabeth Warren. Oh no. Don’t be a 
person who made a career of ﬁ  ghting income inequality but lives in a million-dollar-plus home, has a net worth of about $9 million and received a nearly-half-a-million-dollar salary from her Harvard Law gig. She’s doing her part in the war to ﬁ  ght income inequality.      
And certainty don’t be a Bernie Sanders. No, no. Don’t 
be a guy who praised Fidel Castro — you know, our dem-
ocratic and saintly friend in Cuba. Completely forget the 
fact that he’s a murderous thug who killed thousands of his own countrymen.
Students, don’t be a Warren or Sanders.Students, be driven, be smart and be bold. Be a Ted 
Cruz. And don’t let your roommates hold you back.  
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn runs on Mondays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“Lust and learning. That’s really all 
there is, isn’t it?”
—Stoner, John Williams
A UF English alumnus once 
told me general education was a 
graduation tax: a dependable and low-invest-
ment source of income for the university. In 
celebration of tuition’s recent due date, let us 
reﬂ  ect on Theatre Appreciation.
THE2000 costs $638.13 for three credits, $150 
for a distance learning fee, $50 for an “M&S Fee” (what is that?) and $87 for a “Fine Arts DL (Distance Learning?) 
101-250 Fee.”
How much am I costing UF? Recorded lectures streamed 
on French Internet have a marginal cost of zero and were 
perhaps recorded years ago. Links to non-UF web pages 
cost UF nothing. I am not sitting in a UF lecture hall and 
will never see any UF faculty. I estimate they take 30 sec-onds a week to grade my work. Why must I pay extra, in the form of distance learning fees, for my absence?
Why am I taking this course at all? For the diversity 
credits. Supposedly, THE2000 cures its students of racism, homophobia and ethnocentrism through quizzes, discus-sion posts and production critiques.
For THE2000, I complete a weekly multiple choice 
quiz and write a so-called discussion post. For ENL4333 — Shakespeare Tragedies — I wrote 70 pages. I suffered through willfully mind-twisting quizzes. The tragedies consumed and undid me. The language and the respect afforded to it left me conﬂ  icted and angry and awestruck. 
Between these two drama courses, there is no common 
ground.
General education is at best a failure and at worst a 
sham. With “What is the Good Life?” we concluded that 
philosophy was to be taught in mammoth lecture halls, 
graduate assistants were the only ones lowly enough to bother with leading discussion and the value of life was worth nothing more than passive learning, mass-grading and brief excerpts. We decided the humanities weren’t to 
be taken seriously.
If they were — and if the sciences and arts were — 
general education would truly challenge students’ predis-
positions. It would be done early in college. It would be 
rigorous and involve talented faculty. If we truly wanted 
well-rounded students open to different epistemologies, these classes wouldn’t be dismissible jokes on the edges of our real schedules.THE2000 is not an important part of my life. 
Compare THE2000 to my ﬁ  rst French literature course, where four students and one professor 
in a poorly lit room probed the deﬁ  nition of 
avant-garde. Compare it to an ever more dimly lit course on Nazi medicine, one that made me weigh the meanings of evil and guilt. Compare 
it to evenings in poetry workshop, bowled over 
by lines that set the ﬁ  lth and pettiness of my life in bas-relief.
Here in France, undergraduate participation is a mini-
mum. Professors recite the word of God. Their disciples 
scramble to transcribe every syllable; they swallow and 
spit up what they hear on highly formatted ﬁ  nals. In a word, I’ve come to miss UF. At UF, at its best, questions mattered. Learning was dialogic. Discussions threw us 
into unknown waters, and we treaded as best we could.
THE2000 will not change me. It will not worm into 
my mind and stay there. It is in harmony with the idea of 
online education: the University of Nowhere, the erasure of the scholarly space from America and the swallowing of 
meaning by the faceless imperative of proﬁ  t.
One of my roommates did UF’s Pathway to Campus 
Enrollment, PaCE, last semester. A few hours a week, 
he sat in the dark of our living room, freckles bathed in blue light, clicking through multiple choice quizzes before 
playing “NBA 2K.” He was one of the lost ones — the 
discarded slough of UF’s expansion, the sacriﬁ  cial lambs of UF Rising. No one could realistically have expected him to receive an education in any meaningful, adult sense of 
the word. But for the new UF, it seems, the facade sufﬁ  ces 
for the balance sheet.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish se-
nior. Her column appears on Mondays.General education: at best a failure, at worst a sham Column
With the upcoming voter registration deadline Tuesday, now is the time to become politically engaged. With increased voter turnout, young 
voters can show they care about politics and 
actually want their voice to be heard. While is-
sues like Social Security and Medicare are important, young Americans won’t have to confront these for quite some 
time. In fact, it’s not just far off in terms of years: Many 
young people think it’s irrelevant to them because these pro-grams likely won’t be around when they are older. Despite this, decisions made by politicians enter every facet of our lives, whether the impact is direct or not. According to a poll 
conducted by USA Today and Rock the Vote, “Only a third 
say they’re likely to vote in the Republican primaries. Four in 10 say they’re likely to vote in the Democratic primaries. Six in 10 say they are likely to vote in November.”
Issues like shorter sentences for nonviolent offenders, 
refugees, body cameras and renewable energy matter to young voters. Different issues are important to different groups of voters: While for those nearing retirement Medi-care and Social Security might be the most pressing issues, 
young people have more broad social concerns. As a voting 
bloc, we can hold a lot of sway in the upcoming election, as young voters did in 2008 when Barack Obama was elected.
Voter turnout is embarrassingly low, especially when 
stakes on the issues — whether it’s abortion, pay gap, gun control or even rising tuition costs — have never been high-er. These are issues that everyone on both sides of the po-litical spectrum have opinions on, and it’s disingenuous to expect that young non-voters don’t feel strongly on these 
issues. As current university students go into the workforce, 
it’s going to be important whether we can pay off student debt, or if we’ll have the capacity to negotiate our salaries. Not voting represents a waste of the voice that you have. De-
pending on who you vote for, you are either prioritizing an 
unlimited interpretation of the Second Amendment or gun control, a pro-choice or pro-life stance, a single-payer health care system or an expansion of the Affordable Care Act. Al-though it’s great to have an opinion on political issues, not 
voting means not expressing that opinion in any meaningful 
way. Legislators don’t decide what they do based on Face-book posts — they do it based on polling of the people who actually vote. Young voters can make themselves matter to 
politicians by just showing up to the polls.
Not only does this have implications for national poli-
tics, but it also affects our campus. Last Spring, just under 
13,000 people voted — an extremely low number compared to enrollment at UF. Yet almost everyone on campus has 
an opinion about the kinds of issues that Student Govern-
ment decides, such as which library should be open 24/5 and where their fees should go. 
Both types of low voter turnout can be traced back to 
cynicism — people believe they should just accept the sys-tem as it is, and they have low impact on it. But this is a self-fulﬁ  lling prophecy. If people believe their votes aren’t important and translate their apathy into abstaining from voting, they cannot have an impact. Accepting things the 
way they are will never make things change. The only way 
to make things change is to become an informed voter and actually show up on Election Day.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her col-
umn runs on Mondays.It’s time for young 
voters to become 
politically engagedColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org
“If we truly wanted well-
rounded students open to 
diferent epistemologies, these 
classes wouldn't be dismissible 
jokes on the edges of our real 
schedules.”Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Vampire queen Krul Tepes took selfies 
with fans and fellow characters at the Reitz 
Union on Sunday.
But underneath the pink wig, black boots 
and vampire fangs was Ashley Bresch, a 
20-year-old from Ft. Pierce, Florida, handing 
out Hershey’s Kisses to her followers. 
She was there as a participant at Swamp-
Con on Sunday, an annual event hosted 
by UF’s anime club. The event provided 
Gainesville residents with panels and con-tests about popular culture, such as anime, superheroes and Disney. Over the course of 
the event, over 20 Krul Tepes fans revealed 
themselves to snap a picture with Bresch.
“People who follow me on Instagram will 
come say hi,” Bresch said. “I also get to see other characters from my fandom and take pictures with them.”She said she owns a total of five character 
costumes, but Krul Tepes is her favorite char-acter to play.
“I actually spent all my Christmas money 
on this costume,” she said.
Ben Rice, a UF Japanese and computer sci-
ence freshman, came to SwampCon for the first time.
On Sunday, he came over to Bresch to say 
hi for a second time.
“Yesterday, I saw her across the room and 
got really caught up in the moment,” Rice, 18, 
said. “I don’t know what came over me, I just 
bowed down to her.”
Rice said he hopes to cosplay, or dress up, 
as a character from “Attack on Titan.”
“It’s really cool to see so many anime fans 
walking around,” he said. “It’s been pretty rad so far. “
Max Dunevitz, SwampCon’s event coordi-
nator, said he thought the convention was a 
success. 
“Every year I’ve seen our attendance in-crease,” the 19-year-old computer science 
sophomore said. “This year for the first time it’s on Valentine’s Day, so it kind of changed 
our whole theme. We’re focusing on the idea 
of love.”
He said main events took place in the Re-
itz Union Grand Ballroom, but the convention featured panel rooms and auditoriums for mini-shows throughout the Reitz and Weimer Hall.
Sunday afternoon, event guests lined up 
for the main event of the day: a fanmade Vo-
caloid hologram concert featuring a hologram, 
Hatsune Miku. In the concert, holograms cre-ated on a computer sing.
Bresch and Rice both said they were ex-
cited to attend.
“I need another hobby,” Rice said. “Except 
I don’t, because I just like anime too much. I can’t wait to come back next year.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgFifth SwampCon held, hosts cosplayers and concert
By Sophie Smadbeck
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Nursing will get a new pro-
fessor in about five years.
UF alumna Linda Aiken donated $1 million 
to establish the Linda Harmen Aiken Profes-sorship, which will hire a professor to research 
how people receive health care and how to im-
prove health care. 
Aiken received her bachelor’s degree in 
nursing in 1964 and her master’s in nursing in 
1966, both from the UF College of Nursing.
The gift will be fully funded in five years, 
wrote Tracy Wright, the director of public re-
lations and strategic communications for UF’s College of Nursing, in an email.
After receiving full funding, UF will start 
recruiting to find a researcher to fill the profes-sorship position, Wright said. 
“The professorship will help us recruit a top 
notch faculty member conducting world-class research, which will help to elevate the visibil-ity and reputation of the UF College of Nurs-ing and attract even more excellent faculty and students,” Wright said.
Aiken wrote in an email her degree from 
UF has allowed her to become the director of the Center for Health Outcomes and Policy Re-
search and a professor of sociology at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, she said.
“I got the best education possible at UF that 
established me as a highly successful profes-sional,” Aiken said. “I wanted to give back to the College of Nursing to enable it to continue to be influential nationally, in the state, and in the lives and careers of future nurses.”
Aiken’s goal in starting the professorship is 
to help fund research, she said. 
“Gator nurses are among the best nurses 
anywhere,” Aiken said. “We have a national 
reputation as being innovators and leaders. I 
am so very proud to be a Gator nurse.”UF College of 
Nursing to get new professor
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
LEFT: Robert Adams, the lead singer for Japanese-rock band S.S. Hanami, performs in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom during 
SwampCon on Sunday. RIGHT: Jacksonville resident Josh Sutton (left), 21, and Newberry residents Summer Sturgill, 17, and Eliz-abeth Edwards, 15, play blackjack with vanilla and chocolate sandwich cookies in the Reitz Union during SwampCon on Sunday.
By Stephanie Belina
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students met Friday night to 
talk about their experiences facing 
oppression.
Omega Delta Phi hosted its sec-
ond Open Mic Night at Little Hall. 
Each mic night discusses a different 
topic, with Friday’s titled “Conver-sation on Systematic Oppression.” During the talk, three panelists led about 15 students in a discussion about systemic oppression and ways to fight against its effects on commu-nities.
Laws, customs and practices can 
be oppressive if they create discrimi-nation, said Dominique Lindsey-Gonzalez, an event organizer. These 
practices, enforced by government, 
laws or police, typically affect mar-ginalized communities or communi-ties without equal access and pow-ers.
Students discussed how they view oppression, their experiences with it and their definition of sys-temic oppression.
Nicholas Carre, the Student Body 
treasurer, said voting was once an example of systemic oppression, because poll taxes and literacy tests 
kept some individuals from voting.
The fraternity hosted the event to 
educate students about the impor-
tance of fighting against systems of oppression, Lindsey-Gonzalez said.
The 20-year-old UF sustainabil-ity and the built environment junior said he hoped to inspire students to find an issue they care about. He wants them to learn more about it and do something.
“We don’t want to come off like 
social justice orders,” he said. “We 
want to encourage people to learn.”
Carre spoke as a panelist at the 
event.
The 20-year-old said he hoped 
the event would motivate students to 
advocate for change in causes they care about.
Carre said he didn’t see the need 
to discuss current events, such as Beyonce’s Super Bowl performance, at the panel. He wanted to address systemic oppression as a whole.
He said the issue of systemic op-
pression is nothing new.
“I don’t need Beyoncé to bring at-
tention to Black Lives Matter,” Carre said. “I can draw attention to it my-self when I talk about what I deal with in a classroom.”
Students discuss experiences with systemic oppression
IT WAS THE FIFTH ANNUAL LAW 
AND JUSTICE CONFERENCE.
By Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
At-risk children from Marion County and 
Alachua County learned about overcoming violence Saturday.
UF’s Levin College of Law and the Josiah 
T. Walls Bar Association held their fifth annual Law and Justice Youth conference for about 70 children between the ages of 8 and 16. This year, there were new breakout sessions where half the students discussed gun violence and the other half discussed overcoming violence, such as cyberbullying.
Meshon Rawls, a UF master legal skills pro-
fessor, said planning for the event started in Fall.
Chezare Palacios, a UF law student, spoke 
to the kids about gun control.
“They get to talk to attorneys, cops and judges, and normally they don’t have that kind of access,” the 26-year old said. “With the recent epidemics like Black Lives Matter and LGBT progress, it’s very important to al-low the youths to express themselves in a non-suppressed environment.”
Reina Saco, a UF law student, spoke about 
cyberbullying and gun control.
“What surprised me the most was the re-
sponse that I got for one of the icebreakers we did,” the 25-year old. “I asked them if they knew where to get a gun and most responded and said, ‘Yeah, but they probably wouldn’t give it to me, though.’”
The gun control workshop excited the kids, 
said Ray Brady, a civil trial attorney. He told students about the branches of government. The children formed their own thoughts about 
the positives and negatives of guns, he said.
Amanda Schneider, a UF law student, said 
she has been cyberbullied in the past.
“I wish I had this help, and I’m glad my law 
school is doing something great for the com-
munity,” the 23-year-old said.Conference teaches at-risk children to overcome violence By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Samyr Qureshi created an app 
after learning to play the guitar. 
Qureshi, a 23-year-old UF 
criminology and law alumnus, 
said after learning how to play the instrument, he realized he could help people learn other subjects 
with a tutoring app - an app he 
called Knack.
“I was thinking it would be 
great to learn from a peer instead of an expert,” he said.  
He launched Knack in 2015, 
and it is now available to UF students. The app’s move to Gainesville comes after the Uni-
versity of Central Florida made it 
the school’s ofﬁ  cial tutoring ser-vice.
Knack is styled like Uber, 
Qureshi said, and, for $20 an 
hour, it allows struggling students 
to contact people who have al-ready passed a problematic class.
It will be expanding to other 
schools, including the University of South Florida and Florida State University, within the next year, 
Qureshi said.
It all started in June 2015 when 
the Global Summit competition 
invited 500 creators to showcase their ideas.
“It’s like the Model UN for tech 
geeks,” Qureshi said.
In the end, Qureshi won ﬁ  rst 
place with his app.
Any time a Knack user needs 
help with ﬁ  nance classes, Ismail 
Abushamma, a 23-year-old UF ﬁ  -
nance alumnus, receives a notiﬁ  -cation on his phone.
With more than 50,000 stu-
dents at UF, people may not al-
ways feel like their voices are be-
ing heard, he said.   
“Tutors on Knack give you that 
attention and understand your 
weaknesses,” Abushamma said.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
 Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
Knack, a tutoring app created by a UF student in December 2015, 
allows users to ﬁ  nd other students on campus who have experience in different classes. The $20-an-hour peer-tutoring app will be ex-panding to other schools, including the University of South Florida and Florida State University, within the next year. 
TECHNOLOGY
App helps students ﬁ  nd 
tutors based on location 
NEW BUSINESSES ROUNDUP
Middle Eastern market 
opens Friday
A Turkish woman entered Zeezenia In-
ternational Market and became its first-ever 
customer over the weekend.
The market, situated at 2325 SW 13th St., 
officially opened its doors Friday. It offers locally grown meats, produce and Middle Eastern groceries.
Owners Fawzy Ebrahim and his wife, 
Zaineb, received the woman’s blessing soon after.
“She gave us $20 and told us to put it 
in a frame in the front of the store,” said 
Ebrahim.  
As someone’s first customer, it’s a Turk-
ish tradition to give the owner extra money, 
he said.
Ebrahim, a former statistics professor at 
Nova Southeastern University, said his fam-ily conceived the idea about three years ago.
Before Ebrahim opened his business, 
people drove to either Orlando or Tampa to purchase halal meat, he said.
Now he has the opportunity to sell his 
own chicken, lamb, goat and beef — all raised on his family farm and completely halal. 
In the future, Ebrahim hopes to grow 
herbs to complement the mint he already sells.
“We started out with our farm first, then 
we had more and more customers coming to 
us to buy some organic meat and so forth,” 
he said.
Ashraf Amshaqn, a Libyan student at the 
UF English Language Institute, said the mar-
ket’s products remind him of home.
“I’m so happy because we can do our 
shopping at a place that we are related to in 
some way,” the 30-year-old said. 
-Elizabeth Pantaleon
Cookie company announces 
grand opening
A late-night delivery service will cele-
brate the grand opening of its new location 
Saturday.
From 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Cookiegazm is 
hosting a grand-opening party with music, drinks and loads of cookies, owner Daniel Leal, a 21-year-old UF sustainability studies 
junior, said.
Leal started selling an average of 200 
cookies a night out of Omi’s Playa Azul and 
Elegant Catering, situated at 101 SE 2nd Place, in early January.
The location will now host Cookiegazm’s 
grand opening Saturday.
In Fall 2014, Leal started selling cookies 
to his neighbors as a way to earn extra cash.
After three days, Leal said the emerging 
business sold about 100 cookies, all baked in his apartment’s oven, each night.“What began as a way to make a quick 
buck turned quickly into a pretty big opera-
tion,” he said.
The name, Leal said, is the result of a 
30-second brainstorming session. What do 
all people like?
Cookies and sex, Leal said.
Natalia Ibarra, a 20-year-old UF food and 
resource economics junior, first tried the 
cookies in November.
White chocolate macadamia and cookies 
and cream were the first cookies she tried, and they remain her favorite now.
“They are definitely better than Midnight 
Cookies,” Ibarra said.     
If all goes as planned, Leal said students 
outside of Gainesville could experience Cookiegazm in the future.
“My plan is to spread the ‘gazm across 
the nation,” he said.
- Lauren Rowland
Farmer Brown offers tours of 
Family Garden on Saturday
Jordan Brown starts every day at 5:30 
a.m.
When he’s not taking his four kids to 
school, Brown goes to his 20-acre “ofﬁ  ce” 
and begins working.
Brown is the owner of The Family Gar-
den, an organic farm situated in Southeast 
Gainesville.
The Family Garden, situated at 1655 
SE 23rd Place, was created by Brown in 
Gainesville over the summer. 
On Saturday, Brown gave walking tours 
to the public.
Katie Conley, the farm coordinator, said 
Brown has another farm in Gilchrist County. 
“This is the ﬁ  rst time that many of the 
people have actually been out to the farm — to either farm — so I think Jordan want-ed everybody to kind of see how far he had come,” she said.
Brown said his love for farming grew 
out of a gardening hobby, and he originally 
owned a construction business. 
Eventually, the construction industry 
wilted. 
“I had to make a decision about what to 
do, and I just decided that I would try farm-
ing,” he said. 
Brown constantly drove between 
Gainesville and Bell, Florida, costing him about $1,000 a month. When the opportunity 
to buy land in Gainesville arose, he took it.
Joni Ellis, a local homestead farmer and 
Brown’s neighbor, toured the farm with her 
dog, Bailey.
“I think people need to get more in touch 
with where their food comes from and how hard it is to grow food,” she said.
-Mary-Lou Watkinson“I was thinking it would be 
great to learn from a peer 
instead of an expert.”
Samyr Qureshi
UF criminology and law alumnusMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Condo 1BR/1BA – 705 SQ.FT.Bike to UF or ride the bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018    2-18-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
 
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-1298 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago 
Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Designated drivers are the greatestIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
HEALTHCARE is "Out of Control".
Be part of the solution. $50 off until Mar 
30.  Pomo code "2016":  www.rxcut.biz/
RXN00173    2-16-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
24 Pets 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 14 Help Wanted 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida women's basketball 
lost to unranked Auburn on the road on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 14.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
With wins over Virginia Tech 
and South Florida on Sunday, Florida put an exclamation point on its weekend at the USF Wilson-DeMarini Tournament.
The No. 1 Gators outscored 
their opponents 38-1, sweeping the competition to start the sea-son 4-0. Florida run-ruled each 
team it played in six innings or 
fewer. 
One day after defeating No. 2 
Michigan, UF won both legs of 
its doubleheader against Virginia 
Tech and USF. 
"We looked like a sharp team 
at times and did a good job over-
all of executing," UF coach Tim 
Walton said in a release. 
"With that said, there is a lot 
of improvements we can and will 
make, but I just love the way we 
competed this weekend."
Aleshia Ocasio got the Gators 
off to a fast start, pitching an 8-0 
shutout against Virginia Tech (1-
4). 
The sophomore threw a six-
inning complete game, racking up 
seven strikeouts in the process. 
Offensively, the Gators got on 
the board in the ﬁ  rst inning when Janell Wheaton stepped up to the plate and hit a two-out, two-run 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Horford competes in All Star Game
Former Florida basketball player Al Horford scored 7 points on 3-of-3 
shooting in nine minutes in the NBA All Star Game on Sunday night. The West defeated the East 196-173.Alligator File Photo
T aylor Schwarz hit Florida's ﬁ  rst home run of the season in the third inning of the Gators' 11-1 win against USF in T ampa on Sunday. 
FLORIDA'S NEXT OPPONENTS 
WILL BE NO. 1 CALIFORNIA 
AND NO. 14 STANFORD.
Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The last time Florida took on Clemson, 
the match came down to the wire. 
Trailing most of the game and ﬁ  nding 
themselves down 3-2, the Gators were 
relying on then-freshman Josie Kuhlman and then-sophomore Belinda Woolcock, who were both trailing in the third set. 
Proving they still had some ﬁ  ght left 
in them, both Gators powered through to win both sets, giving the Gators the 4-3 victory.
This time around, though, it was a dif-ferent match.
The No. 3 Gators (5-0) defeated the No. 
20 Tigers (2-2) 7-0 on Sunday in a match where the Gators didn’t drop a set.
“I like the energy from all eight. They 
all get along really well, they work hard 
together, they seem to have an awful lot 
of fun together,” UF coach Roland Thorn-qvist said. “That makes it easier to bring out the genius. It’s easier to play great ten-
nis on the court. Right now I think we’re 
about as good as we can be.”
The Gators took the doubles point in 
close fashion.
The No. 14 team of Kuhlman and Wool-
cock struck ﬁ  rst, quickly defeating Clem-son’s Ally Miller-Krasilnikov and Tristen Dewar 6-2.Gators women's tennis 
sweeps Clemson at home No 1. Florida softball sweeps South Florida Tourney
IT'S COHEN DOWN
The second dunk wasn’t nearly as deﬂ  ating as the ﬁ  rst, when Alabama’s Jimmie Taylor jumped into the body of Florida’s 
John Egbunu and forcefully slammed the ball over his out-stretched arms. 
It sent the 6-foot-10 center 
backpedaling into the basket’s 
padding and launched the Ala-bama bench into a frenzy.
A few minutes later, it happened again. 
Taylor dunked over Egbunu, who stood help-
lessly under the basket — he had four fouls, and attempting to defend another Taylor dunk might have meant a ﬁ  fth and a permanent trip to the bench.
Nearing the end of its 61-55 upset on Satur-
day, Alabama’s players jumped and screamed at Taylor’s throw-down. Florida’s players sulked back to their bench for a timeout.
UF’s body language reeked of disappoint-ment, and not just because it had lost only its second game at home this season, and not just because it had shot a season-worst 28.6 percent from the ﬁ  eld, but be-
cause a loss to a conference ri-
val in mid-February, less than one month out from the NCAA Tournament, carries much more weight than usual.
“It’s a very tough loss for us. 
It’s very tough,” UF coach Mike White said. “As I just told our guys, just being honest, the next two will be a lot harder than this one 
was.”
In the next week, Florida will play road 
games against Georgia and South Carolina.
The Gators have gone 2-6 in true road 
games this season. At home, the Bulldogs are 
12-3 and the Gamecocks are 13-1.
Needless to say, after dropping a confer-
ence home game to a ninth-place Alabama UF uncertain of tourney hopes after lossSEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Success in sports is usually 
measured by how well a team or 
an athlete performs in a critical 
game or meet. 
This weekend, Florida’s No. 1 
men’s and No. 4 women’s track 
and field teams had their last 
two meets, the Tyson Invitation-
al and the Iowa State Classic, before one of the biggest tests of the season: the Southeastern Conference Indoor Champion-
ships. 
Although the Gators have left 
room for improvement up to this 
point in the season, especially 
with a roster heavy with under-
classmen, both teams have a chance to be contenders at the SEC Indoor Championships.
“We’ve got some injury prob-
lems on the men’s side,” UF coach Mike Holloway said in a release.  
“We’re just not very good 
right now on the men’s side, because we’re just banged up. We’ve got to get that figured out, get everybody healthy and training so we can be competi-tive.”
Between the Tyson Invita-tional and the Iowa State Clas-sic, Florida posted 10 more NCAA Division I top-16 marks. The Gators also have upper-
classmen standouts in Robin 
Reynolds and Shayla Sanders, 
as well as freshman Ryan Clark, who have helped carry the team through the first three meets. On Saturday, Reynolds placed 
fourth with a time of 23.10 sec-
onds in the 200-meter dash, 
which marked the second-best 200-meter time in UF history. Sanders came in 11th with a time of 23.39.
In the same event on the 
men’s side, Clark placed eighth with a time of 20.93, and in the process tied the No. 13 Division 
I 200-meter time.
“I was very proud of the la-
dies again. Robin and Shayla did 
a good job in the 200 (meters),” Holloway said. 
“Ryan Clark did a good job... 
He had a great weekend.”
Now, the Gators will have less 
than two weeks to get healthy 
and ready to compete in the SEC 
Indoor Championships on Feb. 26 and 27. The meet will be held in Fayetteville, Arkansas, mark-ing the third time the Gators will 
travel to Arkansas this season. 
“When we’re back here in 
two weeks, we’ve got to be bet-
ter, because that’s what we’re 
supposed to do,” Holloway said.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgGators track and field looking ahead to SEC Indoor Championships
UF saw success at last weekend’s meets
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike Holloway watches his team compete during the 2015 Florida Relays at Percy Beard 
Track.
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Coaches across sports consistently 
preach about the importance of a renewed 
focus in games following losses.
Florida, however, did a poor job of tak-
ing that wisdom to heart on Sunday.
In their worst loss of the season, the No. 
16 Gators were defeated 80-58 on the road 
to unranked Auburn. 
The 22-point loss was seven points worse 
than the loss UF suffered against then-No. 
2 South Carolina in its previous outing on Thursday.
“Auburn just outplayed us. They were 
tougher than us,” Florida coach Amanda Butler said in a release. “Auburn played with a lot more desire than we did and 
that’s really disappointing.”
While a lackluster second quarter 
doomed the Gators against South Carolina, 
it was a flat third quarter that cost Florida (19-6, 7-5 Southeastern Conference) against 
the Tigers (18-8, 8-5 SEC).
After a first half that saw 19 lead chang-
es, Auburn went into the locker room with 
a five-point lead.
Redshirt senior guard Carlie Needles was 
shooting well, making her first three three-pointers of the game and going 3-for-5 from behind the arc in the first half. 
Neither team was able to establish much 
momentum outside the game’s first five minutes until seconds before the half ended. 
Coming off a layup with nine seconds to 
play, UF’s Cassie Peoples tried to take the 
ball up the court to get off one last shot. She was met by a pair of Auburn defenders.
One of them, guard Janiah McKay, stole 
the ball when Peoples attempted an outlet 
pass and scored a layup as time expired. 
From there, Auburn took over, holding 
the lead for the entire second half. 
Entering the third quarter Florida trailed 
48-43. The Gators would exit the period with 48 points, marking their lowest-scor-
ing quarter of the season.
“I don’t think they really made too many 
changes,” Butler said of Auburn’s second-
half adjustments. “Carlie (Needles) still took good shots, they just didn’t fall. That 
happens.”
The deficit steadily grew on the Gators, 
with the final deficit of 22 being the largest 
of the game.
Normally a team that relies on its depth, 
Florida was more top-heavy than usual.
Junior Ronni Williams led Florida with 
16 points and came one rebound shy of a double-double. Needles was the only other 
Gator in double figures with 15. 
“I thought we played a brand of basket-
ball that was absolutely not us,” Butler said. 
“We didn’t do a very good job of sharing 
the ball.”
With the loss, Florida was bumped from 
third to fifth in the SEC standings while Au-
burn jumped from fifth to fourth. The top four teams get a bye in the upcoming SEC 
tournament, meaning Florida is now on the 
outside looking in for that bye. 
The good news for Florida is that it gets 
another shot at Auburn, this time at home 
in its season finale. 
But right now, Florida’s focus isn’t re-demption against the Tigers. It’s avoiding 
another hangover this Thursday when the 
Vanderbilt Commodores visit Gainesville. 
“We did not handle adversity with very 
much maturity and that’s not who we are,” 
Butler said. 
“We have a quick opportunity to turn things around against a very good Vander-bilt team. It’s going to take a lot of leader-
ship and we talk about that every day.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFlorida outplayed by unranked Auburn on the road  
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF’s Carlie Needles looks to pass the ball during Florida’s 85-79 win over Kentucky 
on Jan. 31  in the O’Connell Center.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
The No. 16 duo of sophomore Brooke 
Austin and junior Kourtney Keegan found 
themselves down 5-3 against Fernanda Na-
varro and Ayen Broomfield. 
But the UF pair went on to win the next 
four games, winning the match 7-5 and 
clinching the doubles point.
“I thought (Austin and Keegan) did a 
great job keeping their composure coming from behind. They really cleaned up their game being down 5-3 to win four straight games,” Thornqvist said. 
“And I told our three teams, ‘Look, this 
is why we play three doubles.’ And we have three really good doubles pairings ev-ery time we go out there. We don’t rely on just one team.”
No. 73 sophomore Anna Danilina and 
No. 124 senior Brianna Morgan, eager to make up for squandering a 5-2 lead in doubles, swiftly defeated Daniela Ruiz and 
Miller-Krasilnikov, respectively, in singles. 
Both Danilina and Morgan dropped only 
one game, with Danilina winning 6-1, 6-0 
and Morgan winning 6-0, 6-1.
Up 3-0 and only needing one more game 
to clinch, the Gators looked to No. 19 Aus-tin to get the job done against No. 11 Joana Eidukonyte.And she did, earning her second win of 
the season 6-0, 6-2.
“You go into every match and you don’t 
want to have your expectations too high. 
We knew this match would be tougher, but 
we wanted to keep the same energy level,” Woolcock said. “Keep doing what we were doing.”
No. 116 Kuhlman then defeated Tris-
ten Dewar 6-3, 6-1 to give the Gators a 5-0 
lead.
No. 35 Keegan’s match against No. 75 Navarro ended close.
After winning the first set 6-2, Keegan 
found herself behind 5-2. She would go on 
to win the next four games before Navarro 
tied the set at six a piece. But it was Keegan 
who emerged victorious, winning 7-6.
In the last match, No. 4 Woolcock de-
feated Broomfield 6-4, 6-4 to complete the sweep.
“I think it’s all about just trusting in 
your legs. We put in the work, and we know that even if our shots aren’t going right, we can trust our legs to get us out of 
a match,” Keegan said. 
“And that’s what I did. I came back 
from down 5-2, and just got momentum 
and got out of that match.”
The Gators have a long break before 
they take the court again, this time in a two-game weekend series on Feb. 26-28 against No. 1 California and No. 14 Stan-ford at Stanford. 
California jumped to the top spot from 
No. 6 after it captured the ITA National Women’s Team Indoor Championships, defeating teams like then-No. 5 North Car-olina, then-No. 16 Ohio State and then No. 
7 Virginia. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgTENNIS,  from pg 13Woolcock completed the sweep against Clemson's Broomfield 6-4, 6-4
team, Florida doesn’t have much 
margin for error left this season.
In the last decade, the South-
eastern Conference has averaged four NCAA Tournament teams per year. With a 7-5 record in league play, Florida and Georgia are in a four-way tie for fourth place in the 
SEC standings. South Carolina sits in 
third place, one game ahead of both teams.
The good news: The selection 
committee has allowed in at least five SEC teams in five of the last 10 years, and in those five years, the fi-nal SEC team to earn a bid has had 
between 17 and 20 wins.
Florida would merely need to win 
half of its final six games to finish the 
regular season at 19 wins, and with the 31st best RPI (Rating Percentage Index) in the nation — behind only three other SEC teams — Florida should, at the very least, feel confi-dent about its chances of making the 
tournament.
After all, that’s what this season 
has been about — making the jump 
back into postseason play in March.
After missing out last year for the 
first time since 2009, and with White having never qualified for the tour-nament in four years as a head coach at Louisiana Tech, Florida has made 
no attempt to hide its postseason as-
pirations this season.
“I’m dying to get to the NCAA 
tournament,” White said earlier in the season. “I think our guys are too.”
So did Florida's loss to Alabama 
on Saturday actually hurt its chanc-es?
It depends.It depends on how Florida finish-
es the season, either emerging from its shooting slump and earning wins against a challenging thicket of SEC teams, finding a rhythm, and in the process, their identity.
Or, the Gators can continue with  
their theme of inconsistency, stum-
bling to the regular-season finish line 
against a difficult remaining confer-ence slate that boasts a combined 94-54 record.
“It only gets tougher,” White 
said. “There’s no time to get healthy, to take a rest, to take a break. We’re right back at it tomorrow.”
Ian Cohen is the Sports Editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg 13
single to put the Gators up 2-0. 
Florida put its foot on the 
gas in the bottom of the second, 
loading the bases with no outs for a Kirsti Merritt RBI single, fol-lowed by a bases-clearing, 3-RBI double for freshman Amanda Lorenz to extend Florida's lead. 
Sophomore Nicole DeWitt put 
the finishing touches on the win with an RBI-single to end the game by run rule in the sixth. 
With the win, the Gators im-
proved to 5-0 all time against Virginia Tech. 
After blanking the Hokies, 
Florida fought off the Bulls 11-1 in the second game of its dou-bleheader. 
Freshman Kelly Barnhill start-
ed in the circle for the Gators, one day after throwing a five-inning complete-game shutout against the No. 2 Wolverines. 
Despite only allowing one 
hit, Barnhill didn’t go the whole game against the Bulls.
The Bulls scored the only run 
against Florida all weekend af-ter USF second baseman Lind-sey Devitt walked and advanced to third on back-to-back wild pitches. 
An RBI single and two hitters 
later, Walton put in junior Dela-nie Gourley to finish the game. 
"The way Delanie Gourley 
came in relief today really set a 
tone for us," Walton said. 
"Knowing that there isn't just 
one pitcher on this staff and that an opportunity for all three of 
them can arise in any game at 
any given time." 
On offense, senior first-base-
man Taylor Schwarz put her stamp on the game as she went 
2-for-3 with three RBIs, includ-
ing a two-run home run to put 
the Gators up 6-0 in the third. 
Not to be outdone, Wheaton 
also went yard, hitting a solo 
shot over the left-center fence to 
put Florida up 7-0 in the fourth 
inning.  
The sophomore designated 
hitter finished the game 3-for-3 
with five RBIs. 
Florida will take the field 
again in its home-opener against Jacksonville at 5 p.m. Wednes-
day. 
"Overall I liked the way we 
came out and competed this 
weekend," Walton said. 
"We just played really hard 
and hardly made any mistakes, period."
@mattb_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 13Freshman Barnhill 
allowed the only run of the tourney against USFJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Belinda Woolcock returns the ball with a forehand during Florida's 6-1 win over 
USF on Jan. 21 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White calls out a play from the sideline during Florida's 77-72 win over Ole Miss on Feb. 9
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
D-ROBBED
Forward Devin Robinson misses a shot at the rim during UF’s 61-55 loss to Alabama on Saturday in 
the O’Connell Center. UF faces Georgia on the road on Tuesday.
This Week in UF Sports
Tuesday
• Men’s Basketball @ Georgia, 9 p.m. on ESPN
• Swimming & Diving @ SEC Championships, All Day
Wednesday
• Softball vs. Jacksonville, 5 p.m. on SEC Network+
• Swimming & Diving @ SEC Championships
Thursday
• Lacrosse vs. Wales National T eam, 4 p.m.
• Women’s Basketball vs. Vanderbilt, 7 p.m.
• Swimming & Diving @ SEC Championships
Friday
• Softball @ Diamond 9 T ournament
• Baseball vs. FGCU, 7 p.m. on SEC Network+
• Gymnastics @ Missouri, 7 p.m. SEC Network
• Swimming & Diving @ SEC Championships
Saturday
• Lacrosse @ North Carolina, 11 a.m.
• Men’s Basketball @ South Carolina, noon on SEC Network
• Softball @ Diamond 9 T ournament
• Baseball vs. FGCU, 4 p.m. on SEC Network
• Men’s Golf host SunTrust Gator Invitational, All Day
• Swimming & Diving @ SEC Championships