We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 67 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
Former UF basketball player 
shining in NBA
Dorian Finney-Smith has solidiﬁ  ed on the Dallas Mavericks, pg. 16
UF expanding on-campus Greek life housing
Workers began clearing an area near Hume Hall, pg. 3
GNV charities taking part in Giving Tuesday
T oday, people are encouraged to donate to charities, pg. 5Commemorating Nelson Mandela
See the photo story from Monday’s event, pg. 8
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF students might have more 
parking options by late 2018. 
A new parking garage is be-
ing planned for Museum Road, 
across from the Reitz Union Wel-
come Center, said Fred Rowe, the 
project manager. The eight-level garage needs approval from UF’s Board of Trustees and the Board of Governors before it’s ﬁ  nalized, said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.  “Everything’s contingent on 
approval by the Board of Trust-ees,” she said. The trustees will meet Friday to discuss the garage, while the Board of Governors will meet in January at the earliest. 
If approved, construction on 
the garage would begin by May, Rowe said. It would add about 1,500 spaces and have student, 
faculty and staff parking. Con-
struction would take about 18 months.  
The garage would cost a maxi-
mum of $37.2 million, although the ﬁ  nal cost would be determined after the boards’ approval, Sikes said. It would be paid for through 
parking fees and decal sales. 
“That’s a maximum,” she said. 
“That doesn’t mean that the ga-
rage will cost that much.” 
For UF students like Logan Ab-
bott, 21, additional parking at the Reitz would make attending meet-ings and studying in the building easier. 
“If you can’t get here, it’s kind 
of a wasted space,” the interna-tional studies and French senior said. 
Abbott said she attends meet- UF considers new parking garage
Christina Cozart / Alligator Staff
The proposed parking garage would replace a parking lot. Reitz Ravine
WoodsJ. Wayne Reitz Union
University
of Florida
Welcome
Center
Museum Rd
Proposed Parking
Garage Location
McCarty Dr
Gale Lemerand Dr.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
CALM BEFORE THE STORM
From left: UF chemical engineering students Jose Ciprian, 21, junior; Arena Ramirez, 22, senior; 
and Daniel Luna, 22, senior, study on the first floor of the Marston Science Library during the last week of classes before finals week.
THE MUSEUM 
PURCHASED ITEMS FROM 
SUBHASH KAPOOR, AN 
ART DEALER ON TRIAL 
FOR ART SMUGGLING.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A $75,000 sculpture purchased by 
the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art 
was taken by Homeland Security In-vestigations ofﬁ  cials last week.
The museum purchased the 12th 
century sculpture The Stele of Vishnu Trivikrama, originally from India, in 1999 from Subhash Kapoor, a New York-based art dealer. Kapoor is cur-rently on trial for allegedly running a $100 million international art-smug-gling operation.
In addition to the sculpture, the museum purchased three other items from Kapoor, who also gave the mu-seum 12 ﬁ  gurines as gifts, UF spokes-man John Hines said.
The museum is doing everything 
it can to work with the government agency through investigations, Hines said.
“Homeland Security probably had 
a lengthy list of charges against Ka-poor, and obviously, the Harn Mu-seum did diligence to return the giant sculpture,” he said. 
Homeland Security Investigations 
contacted the Harn in June 2014, no-tifying them that any art purchased by Kapoor may have been stolen, Hines said. When the Harn was re-
cently shown evidence that the sculp-
ture was stolen, a decision was made to return it.
The three other pieces purchased  Harn Museum turns 
over sculpture bought 
from alleged smuggler 
The Associated Press
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — A Somali-born 
Ohio State University student plowed his car 
into a group of pedestrians on campus, exited the vehicle and began stabbing people with a butcher knife Monday until he was shot to death by an ofﬁ  cer. Police said they are inves-tigating whether it was a terrorist attack.
Eleven people were hurt, one critically.The attacker was identiﬁ  ed as Abdul Razak 
Ali Artan. He was born in Somalia and was a legal, permanent U.S. resident, according to a U.S. ofﬁ  cial who wasn’t authorized to discuss the case and spoke on condition of anonymity. The FBI joined the investigation.
The details emerged after a morning of 
confusion and conﬂ  icting reports, created in part by a series of tweets from the university warning that there was an “active shooter” on campus and that students should “run, hide, ﬁ  ght.” The warning was prompted by what turned out to be police gunﬁ  re.
Numerous police vehicles and ambulances 
converged on the 60,000-student campus, and authorities blocked off roads. Students bar-ricaded themselves inside ofﬁ  ces and class-
Oﬃ   cials investigating after eleven injured in Ohio State attack 
SEE OHIO STATE,  PAGE 4SEE ART,  PAGE 4SEE GARAGE,  PAGE 4It would be near the Reitz  Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Agbedidi’ returns to UF
An annual favorite returns to 
UF and the greater Gainesville community Friday to Sunday. “Agbedidi” celebrates traditional 
West African dance together 
with the postmodern expres-sions of choreographers of the African diaspora. A high-energy performance from world-class musicians and an incredible en-semble of dancers will have you wanting to get up and dance. Performances are at 7:30 p.m. 
Friday and Saturday and at 2 
p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are avail-able through the University Box Office. More information is avail-able at arts.ufl.edu.
‘A Christmas Carol’
The Hippodrome State Theatre presents its most recent rendi-tion of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featuring Scrooge, Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim. The show will run Saturday, Dec. 10 and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 
20 at 7 p.m., and Dec. 21 and Dec. 
22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of redemption, charity and goodwill with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for advance reservations.
UF faculty and staff appreciation 
dayThe Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting its UF fac-ulty and staff appreciation day Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. UF employees with a valid fac-ulty or staff Gator 1 Card may receive one free value admis-
sion to the “Butterfly Rainforest” 
and “Wicked Plants” exhibits. Employees may also receive a 10-percent discount in both mu-seum gift shops. These offers are only valid Saturday and may not be combined with other offers or discounts.
Third Annual Mind, Body, and 
Sole 5K raceThe third annual Mind, Body, and Sole 5K race is Sunday at 8:30 a.m at the Commuter Lot. This event brings friends and families together who have been affected by depression and/or suicide in order to share their 
stories and spread a message of 
hope for future generations. The event was founded in honor of Dr. Carey Barber after his battle with depression led to his un-timely death. His mother, Carolyn Barber, started the scholarship in order to raise awareness about 
this devastating mental health 
issue that affects millions each year. Sign up and share the event with friends and family so a light of hope can be brought to those who may be struggling. Register at mindbodysole5k.itsyourrace.com/event.aspx?id=4649.
GatorNights: Freeze Fest
Celebrate winter with GatorNights on Friday at Freeze Fest. You can see the internet sensation Us The Duo in con-cert from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Personalize a snow globe or pho-to frame. Come watch the 8 p.m. 
or 10:45 p.m. showing of “Sully” 
while enjoying a winter snack from the s’mores bar. Glide down the “Reitz mountainside” on the snowboard simulator or race a friend inside a “Zorb” on an 80-foot track. Bring friends to spread holiday cheer at our holiday ka-raoke sing-along. You’ll have a 
chance to grab a copy of Sparks 
Magazine at the official release party in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Midnight Munchies will be breakfast this week in the Reitz Union food court from mid-night to 1:30 a.m. GatorNights is free for UF students with their valid Gator 1 Cards. Attendees 
must be current students to par-
ticipate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
The Longest Table Gainesville
Enjoy a free dinner and dialogue designed to strengthen relation-ships and unite the community 
as everyone works together to 
enhance the quality of life in Gainesville and Alachua County during The Longest Table on Sunday from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at Depot Park Water’s Edge, located at 200 SE Depot Ave. Each attendee is encouraged to bring at least one nonperishable 
food item to this event, which 
will be donated to the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
‘Sounds of the Season: ¡el 
Festival!’Annual holiday favorite “Sounds of the Season: ¡el Festival!” re-turns to Gainesville on Sunday at 
7 p.m. at the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts with special performances by the UF Concert Choir, UF Symphony Orchestra, UF Women’s Chorale, Gainesville Master Chorale, Welson Tremura, Scott Wilson and students from the UF Jazz Program, with spe-cial guest Ensamble Vocal de 
Medellín, a professional choir from Colombia, under the di-
rection of Jorge Hernán Arango García. Free tickets will be dis-
tributed at the Phillips Center 
Box Office. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Caroling the Ravines, presented 
by Friends of Ravine GardensRavine Gardens State Park and the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. are hosting their ninth-an-
nual Christmas event — Caroling 
the Ravines — Dec. 10 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Take a wagon ride around the lit-up park as you en-joy vocal performances, and get your Christmas shopping done early by visiting local vendors. Come visit with Santa. A variety of delicious foods, sweets and 
drinks will also be available for 
purchase from local food ven-dors. Admission to the event is $2 per person or $5 per vehicle (up to 8 people), which includes park entry. Proceeds from the event will benefit the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. Decorated lumi-nary bags with custom names on 
them will be on sale for $5 each. 
Proceeds from the luminaries will benefit local projects by the Pilot Club of Palatka.
Entries for science photo contest 
due Dec. 20The Elegance of Science art com-petition is now accepting entries 
and is open to UF students, fac-
ulty and staff. Submit your 2-D research images or photos that incorporate scientific tools or concepts for a chance to win cash prizes. The contest is orga-nized by the Florida Museum of Natural History and the Marston Science Library. Submissions are 
due Dec. 20. For contest rules or 
to view past winners, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/eos or call 352-273-2013.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  84° LOW  61°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 67
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
IT IS UNKNOWN WHICH 
FRATERNITY OR SORORITY 
CHAPTERS WILL 
PURCHASE THE LAND.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Forest land near Hume Residence Hall is 
being cleared for Greek housing.
Three acres of land are being cleared to accommodate the addition of three Greek 
chapter houses, said UF spokeswoman Ja-
nine Sikes. No contractor is currently lined 
up to start building on the property, but the 
site preparation is scheduled to be done by the end of this year.
UF began clearing the land in September. 
In the area, three lots will be available for 
purchase that are one acre each, Sikes said. 
“It is in anticipation that up to three Greek 
chapters will build houses,” she said. UF has seen a 150-percent increase in its 
Greek community in the past 10 years, result-
ing in a demand for more housing, Sikes said. 
The Greek chapters that purchase the land 
will have to comply with UF’s construction codes, Sikes said. The university will not be 
funding the construction of any of the houses. 
Alpha Phi Sorority announced on its web-
site that it will be opening a chapter at UF in 
Fall 2017. It is unknown whether the sorority will purchase one of the lots.Jack Causseaux, the director of sorority 
and fraternity affairs, said the lots will be available for purchase by current UF frater-
nity chapters, sorority chapters or potential 
chapters. 
“There’s no telling what will be on the 
lots,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  UF expanding on-campus Greek life housing near Hume Hall
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
A truck enters the construction-site clearing next to Hume Residence Hall on Monday afternoon. The location, which was once a forest, will feature a new Greek chapter house after construction is completed.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
A skateboarder rolls past the entrance to the construction site located west of Hume Residence Hall on Monday afternoon. The site will be home to a new Greek chapter house following its completion.
THEY ARE BEING PAID 
$15,000 TO PERFORM.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The husband-and-wife band Us 
the Duo will perform at UF on Fri-
day.
As part of GatorNights, the free 
show will begin at 9 p.m. inside the 
Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Doors 
will open at 8:30 p.m.Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment invited the duo, comprised of members Michael and Carissa Alvarado, who earned online ac-claim after posting covers of popu-lar songs on video-sharing sites like Vine and YouTube.
They will be paid $15,000 to 
perform, said Ashley Fosse, a band committee director of RUB Enter-tainment. The event is free to stu-dents with valid Gator 1 Cards.
“We all decided that it would 
be a great idea to bring them,” the 20-year-old UF marketing se-nior said. “They have a really pop-acoustic vibe.”
Fosse said the performance ma-
terial can range from the duo’s cov-ers to their original songs and even holiday tunes.
Before the Alvarados started per-
forming together, UF student Alexis Magill was already a fan of their in-dividual talents, following both art-ists’ careers on Vine.
Magill said she watched them 
perform in Orlando over the sum-mer at a small venue, adding that she’s seen how their music has evolved through their relationship.
“It’s like a real story in their mu-
sic versus giving people what they want to hear,” the 20-year-old UF communication sciences and disor-ders and psychology junior said
Excited to learn UF was hosting 
the concert for free, Magill said she plans to arrive at least three hours early Friday.
“I think it’s cool that our school 
can afford to give us these opportu-nities,” she said.  
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org  
 YouTube stars Us the Duo performing at UF on Friday 
From left: Michael and Carissa Alvarado
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
rooms, piling chairs and desks in 
front of doors, before getting the all-clear an hour and a half later.
Ohio State Police Chief Craig 
Stone said the assailant deliber-ately drove his small gray Honda over a curb outside an engineering classroom building and then began stabbing people. A campus officer who happened to be nearby be-
cause of a gas leak arrived on the 
scene and shot the driver in less 
than a minute, Stone said.
Angshuman Kapil, a graduate 
student, was outside Watts Hall 
when the car barreled onto the 
sidewalk.
“It just hit everybody who was in front,” he said. “After that, ev-
erybody was shouting ‘Run! Run! Run!’”
Student Martin Schneider said 
he heard the car’s engine revving.
“I thought it was an accident 
initially until I saw the guy come out with a knife,” Schneider said, 
adding that the man didn’t say any-
thing when he got out.
Most of those who were injured 
were hurt by the car, and at least 
two were stabbed, officials said. 
One had a fractured skull.
Asked at a news conference 
whether authorities were consid-
ering the possibility that it was a 
terrorist act, Columbus Police Chief 
Kim Jacobs said: “I think we have 
to consider that it is.”OHIO STATE,  from pg. 1The attacker was a student
IT’S AVAILABLE ON APPLE DEVICES.
By Dakota Williams
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Emilia Echeveste first moved to Gainesville 
in Fall 2015, she mostly ate at Subway, Blaze Pizza 
and the on-campus dining halls. 
It wasn’t until the 20-year-old UF marine sci-
ences sophomore’s second semester that she visited more local restaurants, she said. 
For Jason Farnum, a 25-year-old UF alumnus, 
this was something he wanted to change. To high-light local restaurants’ best-selling dishes, he co-founded an app called Talace.  
Talace, a visual guide to Gainesville dining, 
shows photos of the best-selling dishes of various 
local restaurants. It’s been available for about two 
months and features about 150 restaurants, ranging from seafood to Middle Eastern cuisines. 
In picking items to feature, Farnum and his team 
visited each local restaurant on the app and asked chefs which foods were the most popular, he said.
“(People) sometimes avoid a restaurant because 
they don’t know what to order, especially at foreign place,” Farnum said. “We built Talace to be like a 
directory of top menu items at local restaurants.” 
The app shows the name and price of a dish un-
derneath its photo. 
Farnum and his team are still updating the app, 
and he said they hope to add a mobile ordering fea-
ture to it. 
Echeveste said she wants to start using the app.“Looking through the app allowed me to see the 
many restaurants and food in Gainesville without 
going out of my way. It’s right there,” she said.New app features best-selling local dishes
from Kapoor totaled $31,500, all of 
which were purchased with private funds. 
Hines said the museum is wait-
ing to hear back from Homeland Se-
curity Investigations to decide what 
to do with all of the items. They are currently in storage, Hines said. 
Hines said he did not know if the 
museum would be refunded for the art pieces. 
In October 2011, Indian officials 
issued an arrest warrant for Kapoor, and he was jailed in Germany while visiting Frankfurt for an art exhibi-tion. In July 2012, he was sent back to India, where he currently waits on trial, according to The New York Times.
According to the article, Kapoor 
is suspected of smuggling as many as 2,622 items, most of which come from India.Guolong Lai, a UF Asian art his-
tory professor, said art smuggling is common in Asia because of a lack of restrictions on art theft, but it rarely happens in the U.S. 
In the past, American curators 
have been prosecuted for art smug-gling, but the Harn is doing the right thing by returning the statue, he said.  
When a museum is caught in an 
art smuggling deal, Lai said it can create a bad reputation for the mu-seum. 
Some museums have made an 
unprovenanced policy, which pre-vents a museum from purchasing a piece unless the source is known, Lai said. The policy helps prevent 
the purchase of stolen art. As far as 
Lai knows, the Harn does not have the policy, he said.
“It’s an ethical thing,” Lai said. 
“The museum needs to be more open.” ART,  from pg. 1The artwork cost $75,000
Courtesy to the Alligator
The Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art paid $75,000 to Subhash Kapoor, 
an art dealer currently on trial for an international art smuggling racket, for The Stele of Vishnu Trivikrama in 1999. Homeland Security Investigations took the statue from the Harn last week to return it back to its origin in India after evidence of it being stolen.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF business professor was 
chosen last week to join one of Don-
ald Trump’s transition teams.
Mark Jamison, the director of 
UF’s Public Utility Research Cen-
ter, was named Nov. 21 as one of 
the two members for the president-elect’s tech-policy transition team, according to The Washington Post. In an email, Jamison declined to comment on his role, citing it as confidential.
As a member of the team, 
Jamison will focus on the Federal 
Communications Commission, an independent government agency 
that regulates radio, television, wire, satellite and cable communi-cations across the U.S. and interna-
tionally.
In the past, 
however, Jamison 
has questioned the existence of 
the FCC. On Oct. 21, in a published blog post, he crit-icized the FCC’s 
current state of 
operation and its 
implementation of net neutrality.
He tweeted out a link to his post, 
along with a question.“If we cannot improve FCC gov-
ernance, are we better off without 
the FCC?” he wrote. 
Jamison has argued against the 
FCC establishing net neutrality, 
which since last year has worked to “establish a legal standard for other broadband provider practices to ensure that they do and do not unreasonably interfere with or dis-advantage consumers’ access to the 
Internet,” according to the FCC’s 
website.
According to his biography, 
Jamison has also served as the spe-cial academic adviser to the chair of the Florida Governor’s Internet Task Force and the manager of regulatory policy at Sprint. 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org Professor picked for Trump transition team
ings in the student union at least 
once a week. Because she lives in Murphree Hall, her car is always parked on campus, but driving to 
the Reitz before restrictions are 
lifted is difficult. 
“It’s basically impossible,” she 
said. “It’s really difficult to get in and out.” 
Krystie Nguyen, the director of 
UF’s Asian Pacific Islander Ameri-can Affairs, located in the Reitz, said it’s difficult for her to find parking during the day. 
Although Nguyen said she usu-
ally gets to campus early enough to find a spot, she knows not to drive somewhere and attempt to return in the middle of the day. She’s learned this after spending about an hour looking for parking around 11 a.m., she said. 
Zach Nimmons, a UF statistics 
sophomore, spent up to $15 a week to leave his car in the Retiz parking garage for work during Summer, he said. He’s worked at the Reitz Union Hotel reception desk for more than a year.
“If it’s during the day, I do 
have to pay for parking if I can find a spot,” the 20-year-old said, adding that spaces in the garage are hard to find if an event is hap-pening in the building. 
He hopes the Board of Trustees 
approves the project. 
“It’s basically impossible to 
find a spot in that garage,” he said. “Another garage would be appreciated.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org 
GARAGE,  from pg. 1The garage would be finished by late 2018 He was appointed Nov. 21
Jamison
Courtesy to the Alligator
The T alace app, pictured above, shows local 
restaurants’ best-selling dishes.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
Following the start of the holiday 
shopping season, Gainesville nonprofits 
hope they are the recipients in a global 
day of giving.
Giving Tuesday, an initiative started 
five years ago, asks people to give their money to charities and those in need instead of buying items. Alachua Coun-
ty’s chapter of Take Stock in Children, a 
scholarship and mentoring program, is asking for $20 donations. 
Luisana Segu, the Take Stock in Chil-
dren mentor and alumni coordinator, said giving is especially important to the pro-
gram. Take Stock in Children aims to give 
a $4,000 scholarship to each child who completes the program. 
“We targeted our mentors that are invested in the program, and they each 
have a student, so that they can see the 
impact that the program is having,” she said.
Victoria Alvarez, a case manager at the 
Saint Francis House, said it’s important to donate to help children in need. Even if 
people can’t give money, Alvarez said 
they can give their time.
“Even something small is helpful, 
even if it’s just an ear to someone who needs to talk — something that can go so far,” she said.
Jonathan Iyar, a UF business junior, 
said he hopes others participate in Giving Tuesday. 
“It’s a good idea during the holidays, 
because when you’re surrounded by your family and loved ones, you think about 
all of the ones who are in a situation that 
that’s not possible,” the 20-year-old said.GNV charities hoping to 
take part in Giving TuesdayTHE NEXT CLINIC WILL BE 
HELD WEDNESDAY.
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
Professional basketball player 
Ron Larris returned to Gainesville 
from Denmark to give back to his community.
During a free basketball clinic 
held at the Martin Luther King Jr. 
Multipurpose Center on Monday 
night, Larris joined forces with 
Eastside High School basketball 
coaches and players to teach 46 lo-
cal children how to dribble, pass 
and shoot.
The free clinic, organized by 
the City of Gainesville Parks, Rec-reation and Cultural Affairs Depart-
ment, encourages kids ages 5 to 14 
to hone their skills before joining 
the city’s Youth Coed Basketball 
League.
Not everyone who participates 
in the two-day clinic joins the 
league, however.
The next clinic will also be held 
at the Martin Luther King Jr. Mul-tipurpose Center, located at 1028 
NE 14th St., on Wednesday from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m., according to a City 
of Gainesville press release.
Guillermo Chacon, the city’s rec-
reational sports leader, said one of the benefits of offering free basket-ball lessons to kids is that it may 
keep them out of trouble.
“It’s a proven statistic that kids 
who participate in sports are less likely to fall into the traps of soci-ety,” Chacon said.
Larris, now a trainer at Gaines-
ville-based Nigie Hoops, said Mon-day was his third year participating. Since he returned from Denmark, he has spent much of his time teaching basketball to local kids.
“There’s so much that divides 
us,” he said. “Basketball being a universal sport, it can bring us to-gether.”City offers free basketball clinic for kids
By Morgan Rynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
Following Black Friday, some shoppers in 
Gainesville turned to their tablets, phones and 
laptops to find digital deals for holiday shop-ping.
Nationwide, early predictions indicate shop-
pers are switching over from the traditional post-Thanksgiving shop-a-thon to Cyber Mon-day, a day of online sales at several retail stores, said UF retail lecturer Steve Kirn.
“Foot traffic (on Black Friday) is about 11 
percent fewer this year than last year,” Kirn said, adding that online sales on Thanksgiv-ing and Black Friday have increased 18 percent since last year. 
Even when participating in Black Friday, 
some locals still relied on technology to help them shop.
“The Macy’s here in Gainesville told us that 
people would pull up in the parking lot, order what they wanted on their phone, and then go into the store pick-up desk and expect the item to be there,” Kirn said. 
Some local Gainesville shops only partici-
pate in one of the major shopping days. 
“We don’t do any online deals, because we 
are a local shop and we get mostly foot traffic,” 
said Jodie Karsonl, a sales associate at Wolf-
gang, located on University Avenue. 
As a clothing shop that relies heavily on 
students, Wolfgang did not see many custom-ers Friday because many students were away, Karsonl said.
“Mostly because most of our customers are 
students who are out of town, we weren’t super busy,” she said.
UF nursing freshman Aerial West said she 
wouldn’t have gone to stores in person even if she were in Gainesville for Black Friday. 
“I would rather do it in the comfort of my 
own room than all of the chaos of Black Fri-day,” the 18-year-old said.More people turning to digital 
deals for Cyber Monday in GNV
By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer
After being pulled over for speeding 
early Monday morning, a Gainesville 
man tried to put an officer in a head-lock and wound up in jail, Gainesville Police said.
At about 2:38 a.m., William James 
McFadden, 40, was pulled over at 5700 NW 23rd St. by a GPD officer, who no-ticed McFadden slurred his speech and smelled of alcohol, according to a po-lice report.
When the officer asked McFadden 
to get out of his car to conduct a DUI investigation, McFadden tried to get back into his car several times, accord-ing to the report. During his final at-tempt to get back into his car, two offi-cers attempted to put him in handcuffs, but McFadden refused.He pulled his arm away and was 
soon put on the ground by the officers, according to the report. He then broke free and attempted to wrap his arm around an officer’s neck, but the other officer pulled his arm away.
The side-of-the-road wrestling bout 
left the officer bleeding and with a scraped elbow, according to the report.
Police arrested McFadden on 
charges of battery on a law enforce-ment officer, resisting an officer with-out violence and resisting an officer with violence. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released at 1:15 p.m. Monday on a $10,500 bond. As of press time, he could not be reached for comment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
Gainesville man tried to put officer in headlock, police say
McFadden
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
From left: Ron Larris, a 30-year-old trainer at Nigie Hoops and former Gainesville High School basketball player, cheers “T eam!” with 46 kids and some Eastside High School basketball coaches during a free basketball clinic held at the Martin Luther King Jr. Multipurpose Center on Monday night.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
John McDaniel, 13, perfects his free throw at the Martin Luther King Jr. Multipurpose Center on Monday night during the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Department’s first free basketball clinic,  held before the Youth Coed Basketball League evaluations.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
On Thanksgiving, it is custom to sit at the table with 
those you feel most connected to in your life and be grateful for the simple things. When we sit down at that dinner table, surrounded by good food and better company, we remind ourselves to be thankful for the 
little things: a good meal, our health and togetherness. As soon as the meal is complete, another great American tradition begins: Black Friday shopping.
In stark contrast to our humble Thanksgiving, Black Friday 
is a true American holiday. Americans all over the country put down their napkins, hug and kiss their family members goodbye and then push them out of the way so they can race them to the local Best Buy to save $7 on a sub-par television set. The thrill of the kill is found searching around for stores, getting that good ﬁ  nd 
and delivering that ﬁ  nal, fatal blow at the register. Consumerist 
predators ﬁ  ght each other in lines, trampling people (sometimes fatally) trying to ﬁ  nd a good deal/prey to feast upon. It seems that, within a matter of minutes, all of the lessons we learned on Thanksgiving about humility and respect are thrown away and replaced by the savage, greedy tradition known as Black Friday.
After a weekend of recovery, the cycle continues. This past 
Monday was Cyber Monday, a day when online retail outlets pro-vide extreme discounts to consumers. Essentially, it’s a virtual 
Black Friday. While the thrill of the kill is reduced to a virtual 
interface, there’s still that desire to spend tons of money and en-gage in the “consume, consume, consume” mentality. Today is Giving Tuesday, a day when we are supposed to use self-reﬂ  ec-tion to recognize the things we take for granted and are grate-ful for and use that to inspire us to make generous donations to various charitable organizations. Like Thanksgiving and Black Friday, it’s hard to ignore the blatant hypocrisy we ﬁ  nd on these back-to-back days.
These four potentially traumatic events all happen within six 
days of each other. Thankfully, we get the weekend off. Regard-less, we’re not saying there’s anything wrong (necessarily) with being a consumer. We all need things to survive. We all want things to make our lives easier and more enjoyable. So long as nobody is oppressed in the production process (child labor, un-fair wages to employees, exploited locals for materials, etc.) it’s perfectly ﬁ  ne to consume. The issue we have with this is the en-couragement of blatantly gluttonous consumerism superimposed 
over a background of “family values” and humility. We’re not 
really setting a good example for our young ones when we talk out of both ends of our mouths like this. There’s something weird and darkly ironic in telling them to be “grateful for what you have” and at the same time “wake up, Wal-Mart opens in three hours, and we need to get in line to grab a new gaming system that will be irrelevant in four years.”
Moreover, remember that when you engage in this process, 
you’re not actually doing as much good as you think. While do-
nating to hospitals and local charities may do some good in your 
community, if on Monday you’re e-purchasing some “Made in Taiwan” toy that a child lost a ﬁ  nger making for you and on Tuesday donating to a charity that tries to ﬁ  ght such horriﬁ  c prac-tices overseas, recognize that you’re not actually doing any good in the world. As we said in an editorial earlier this year, “It is fundamentally immoral to use consumerism as a way to remedy the problems that consumerism itself perpetuates.”
With Christmas coming, we once again face this hypocrisy: 
The weird divide of being told it’s the “season of giving” to those who have less than us, while also being forced to purchase gifts that further increase the divide among our society. Hopefully we can use this as an opportunity to better our shopping habits and as a way to remedy that “Great American Hypocrisy.” The ‘Great American 
Hypocrisy’
Let love motivate you, not hatred, you silly human
Sorry, copy desk. I wanted to get kind of 
political today. Not political enough to provide facts for you to check, but po-
litical enough to make you groan at an-
other one of these columns. If it makes 
you feel any better, I regret this column, too.
I don’t like politics for obvious reasons — 
an obvious reason is that politics is silly, dumb, dumb and silly. In regard to politics, I’m not well-read in local, countrywide or global policy. I’m as uninformed as a newspaper copy editor can be, and I don’t mind that at all.
I pretty ﬁ  rmly believe you can devote your time to any-
thing you love, and that time spent is not a waste or an abuse of privilege. If I took the time to become informed, watch various news outlets and peruse op-eds and editori-
als, I’d lose the opportunity to create art and improve as 
an artist. I don’t care if it’s an extra ﬁ  ve minutes out of my day to read an informative article. I don’t have downtime to do things I don’t love.
That being said, the election affected me a whole lot 
more than I expected it to. Had I not been a copy editor at a newspaper, I would have been home working on art during election night. I would have offhandedly checked Facebook and noticed Donald Trump became the presi-
dent-elect. I would have shrugged my shoulders and went 
back to the art I cared so much about. That’s what I was hoping I’d do, and that indifference is what I expected to feel up until election night.
I’ve seen plenty of Trump on social media; he’s a pretty 
hateable guy for obvious reasons — an obvious reason is that he is dumb, silly, silly and dumb. But I didn’t hate him. If anything, I just assumed he was Andy Kaufman in disguise and let him continue his hilariously unending 
running joke.
When Trump won, folks around me broke down. Folks 
I cared about. Folks I loved. The Alligator endorsed Hillary Clinton, and Clinton did not win the presidency. 
The implications of the Trump presidency crept into the minds of everyone around me, and 
those implications hit them like a truck.
And so, on election night, I did something I 
thought I’d never do: write an unironic politi-
cal cartoon about a presidential election. I made 
art. Not out of hatred for the man who had just 
won the country, but out of love for the people around me who were broken down and without 
hope. It was the least I could do, given the circumstances.
I think it’s toxic to assume that another person’s opin-
ion is automatically valid because it is their own. Peo-ple can have silly opinions; haven’t you read, like, half of these columns? Especially when those opinions spew hatred and disdain for others — you cannot let that crap 
slide.
But, you cannot spew hatred in response. Memes, po-
litical cartoons, comedians and the word “deplorables” 
only added fuel to the ﬁ  re, because every retort was based in hatred for the candidate, rather than in love for those 
who are targeted. Making fun of Trump’s hair alongside 
actual political criticism is incredibly counterproductive, folks. That should go without saying.
That being said, he looks incredibly goofy.
Solving the whole “half of the U.S. population needs to 
shape up” problem won’t be easy. But the solution is not 
passivity. Don’t let those hateful opinions be spread. The solution is not hatred, either. Don’t be a hypocrite; retort-ing hatred with hatred is probably the reason we didn’t 
get our ﬁ  rst female president. Do things out of love for 
other people. Don’t do things out of love for this delusion of what you think America is or should be — that’d be pretty conceited if you’re assuming what’s best for more 
than 300 million people. Don’t do that. Just love people.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineering junior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgRaise your voice for Results 
This year’s election has been the spotlight of 
many conversations, and we want to make sure 
the new leaders are aware of the issues facing 
their people.
President-elect Donald Trump will be taking 
ofﬁ  ce during a crucial time for foreign aid in-
vestment, and it is vital that the U.S. Agency for 
International Development continues to admin-
ister global humanitarian assistance.
UF Results recently went to Washington 
D.C. to lobby on Capitol Hill in support of the Reach Every Mother and Child Act. This life-
changing act aims to save the lives of mothers 
and children around the world from prevent-able diseases. With over 200 signatures, Con-gress has shown immense support for the bill, 
but our work isn’t over yet. If the bill doesn’t 
get enough support from Congress, it will not be passed.  
We need your help to push this necessary 
piece of legislation forward, because it is the 
impetus for Congress to take the helm and save 
millions of mothers’ and childrens' lives.
Gabriella Insabella is a UF health education 
and behavior junior.Letter to the EditorTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Thanksgiving always manages to shift 
your perspective, creating a different effect with each visit. It can make you nostalgic, anxious or maybe just send you straight into that existential 
tailspin the Alligator detailed in last week’s editorial. It’s a brief reprieve from a tedious collegiate schedule and a reality check on life in the Gainesville bubble. It’s a week of compromise: with your parents promising not to pry too much about post-graduation plans and you tolerating the pageantry of the Christmas-card photo shoot in return. De-spite this being my last Thanksgiving Break as an undergraduate, I experienced a vari-ety of ﬁ  rsts, proving that while I grow and change, so does my home.
I felt the ﬁ  rst twinges of senioritis over 
this past week as I shrugged off my papers, presentations and thesis drafts in favor of binge-watching “Westworld” and act-ing as my little sister’s personal chauffeur. I couldn’t bear the thought of returning to my designated corner at Pascal’s, opening those neglected word documents and stringing togeth-er half-ﬁ  nished ideas. It makes sense, as practically everyone in my life responded to each one of my graduate school acceptances with the question, “Does this mean you can slack off now?” Un-surprisingly, the answer was and still is “no.” But how could that thought not cross your mind? With a job or grad school so close on the horizon, it’s far too easy to yearn for a break and brush off the high-functioning anxiety that serves as your main motivation. Yet, we still have an-other semester left. Don’t jump ship just yet.
Additionally, this break made me realize 
not everyone loves school with as much fer-vor as the students at this university. And that’s not meant to be some sort of thinly veiled humble brag — really. With one of my siblings returning home for Thanksgiving in the midst of his less-than-stellar ﬁ  rst semester of college, I came to realize my experience at UF isn’t necessarily the norm. Hear-ing my brother talk about missing South Florida (of all places) not only broke my heart, but it also put into perspective how lucky I am to attend this school and have such a positive college experience. Sometimes it’s easy to forget your 
experience is not universal.
For the ﬁ  rst time I noticed how much 
people talk about the future while home for the holidays. This doesn’t just refer to that carefully planned speech about your postgrad plans you recite to every inquiring relative or your drunk uncle’s comments on the future of the country’s political climate. All week, there were constant projections of what the future may bring: where I’ll be liv-ing in a year’s time, what careers my siblings will pursue and what my parents will do to ﬁ  ll their empty nest. Sure, we reminisced on some family memories, but our minds were increasingly turned toward the unknown. It’s a weird time for all of us, as my parents acclimate to life without young children and us kids reckon with our emerging adulthood, and it’s apparent that these transitions are dominating our thoughts.
In the days leading up to Thanksgiving, 
there was a multitude of articles and con-versations circling around the family-related anxiety that so often accompanies the holi-days. We think we know exactly how our family works and that we can anticipate their actions better than anyone else, yet they con-tinually surprise us. Heading home is almost always a jarring experience because, despite our knowledge that everything changes, our family remains a static image in our minds. But just like always, they love to prove us wrong.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
On going home again: a week of Thanksgiving ﬁ  rsts and looking to the futureColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
Much of the post-election analysis from main-
stream media outlets and within college newspapers would have you believe race re-lations have never been worse and the cause is directly related to the election of Donald 
Trump.
Those who have opposed his candidacy and now 
prepare to oppose his presidency intensely focus on a few incidents in order to play up a false narrative about racism and the reasons behind his victory.
In a Nov. 21 opinion piece, columnist Caprice Carter argued 
that, “Trump’s win has given hate groups a platform to stand on.” At no point does that piece mention the opposite side in which protesters are disrupting neighborhoods and campuses across America to protest a fairly contested election and deny the legitimacy of the president-elect, or the acts of violence that have occurred as part of anti-Trump movements.
It should be clear to those on both sides of the aisle 
that acts of hatred and violence are intolerable no matter what the political justiﬁ  cation.
Trump has called for an end to any violence and 
hatred on behalf of his movement and has stayed largely positive and unifying post-election, as a presi-dent should.
It is neither fair nor correct to pin the stoking of ra-
cial tensions squarely on Trump and those who voted for him. The media and many in opposition push the 
idea that the entirety of the Trump campaign was built on a bed-rock of racism and a hatred toward minorities.
This is wrong, and it overlooks the many millions of hon-
est, patriotic and loving Americans who voted in his favor. It is important to remember that Trump won the election based on votes from many of the same people who twice-elected President Barack Obama to ofﬁ  ce.
The real nourishing of tensions comes from those who per-
petuate the idea that a few bad actors represent the entirety of the Trump movement, and every political conversation needs to be about race.
That is simply not the case.
Connor Jones is a supply chain and logistics technology 
senior. A version of this letter originally ran in the University of 
Houston's The Daily Cougar. Donald T rump is not the cause of racial tensionsUWire
Connor Jones
UWire
“Trump won the election based 
on votes from many of the 
same people who twice-elected 
President Barack Obama.”Adeyoola Adeniji, 20, a UF health education and behavior junior and the internal vice president of the 
African Student Union, introduces the ﬁ  rst speaker of the Nelson Mandela Day Celebration,  Agnes Leslie, a senior lecturer in the Center for African Studies, to a crowd of more than 20 people at Pugh Hall.
UF health science junior and African Student Union’s Community Service Director Victor Elensi, 20, performs a Bob Marley song to commemorate Nelson Mandela’s humanitarian efforts.
 Members of the audience applaud after Victor Elensi’s performance at Pugh Hall on Monday afternoon.
COMMEMORATING 
NELSON MANDELA
Photos by Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
More than 20 people attended the Nelson Mandela Day Celebration, sponsored by the African Student Union, the Center for African Studies and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service on Monday afternoon at Pugh Hall to commemorate Nelson Mandela’s life and his humanitarian efforts. The program of events included performances, guest speakers, video tributes, food and drinks.8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
 Invasive species threatens pine trees 
Cultivators of the Loblolly pine tree could lose 
up to $17 billion over the next two decades due to 
an invasive insect.
Researchers with UF’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences conducted a two-year study 
to see how the ambrosia beetle — native to Asia 
— could affect South Florida’s Loblolly pine trees, said Damian Adams, a UF assistant professor of natural resource economics and policy.
Adams said the ambrosia beetle has killed 
about 800 million trees, most of which are in the Everglades. About 27 non-native beetle species from Asia have also been found in the U.S.
Adams and other researchers decided to begin 
the study after noticing the ambrosia beetle’s responsibility in damaging Florida’s avocado crop, he said. They wanted to see if the fungus the beetle produces could harm the Loblolly pine trees like it harms avocado plants, he said.
Florida’s forest industry brings about $16 mil-
lion and produces about 90,000 jobs, he said. 
“Pine trees are a major commodity,” Adams 
said. “If we lose the pine forest, it could be devas-
tating for the economy.” 
- Zalome BricenoA PULITZER PRIZE WINNER  IS 
AMONG THE AUTHORS.
By Sarah Coleman
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an effort to bridge the gap between au-
thor and reader, the Alachua County Library 
District will host a series of author appearances 
beginning in January.Last week, the district announced this 
year’s lineup, which includes a Pulitzer Prize 
winner and a UF assistant professor.
At individual sessions between January 
and May, the authors will speak to attendees 
and sign copies of their books at the district’s 
Headquarters Library, located at 401 E. Univer-
sity Ave. The event was organized in partner-ship with publishers, Friends of the Library 
and Books-A-Million, said Nickie Kortus, the 
marketing and public relations manager for the library district.
Kortus said the authors should appeal to 
a diverse variety of readers throughout the 
county.
“It really does make a connection with peo-
ple,” she said.
The authors include Robert Olen Butler, 
who won the 1993 Pulitzer Prize for a collec-
tion of short stories narrated by Vietnamese 
immigrants, and Ibram X. Kendi, a UF assistant 
professor who won the 2016 National Book Award in November for his telling of racism in America. The other authors include Victor 
McGlothin, Ann Hood, Ted Geltner, Ace Atkins 
and Bronwen Dickey. 
Patrick Goodrich, a 20-year-old UF econom-
ics junior, said he thinks the event will give his 
peers a chance to learn outside of the class-
room.
“I think it’s a great opportunity for UF stu-
dents to get connected in our own city,” he said.  Alachua County announces author speaker series lineup
 UF researchers discover why snakes have no legs
Researchers at UF have uncovered the evolutionary 
process of how snakes lost their legs.
Through ﬁ  ve years of research, Martin Cohn, a UF 
professor of molecular genetics and microbiology, and 
Francisca Leal, a UF doctoral candidate, found deletions 
in an enhancer of the gene responsible for the develop-
ment of limbs in living organisms. The gene is known as the Sonic Hedgehog gene, Cohn said.
“The research was done to try and understand an evo-
lutionary process and to try and understand how evolu-tion works at the molecular genetic level,” he said. 
Cohn and Leal studied the gene in developing ball 
python embryos and compared it to the genetic activity that occurs during the anole lizard’s limb development. 
By looking at the gene-by-gene difference in pythons and 
lizards, the researchers found that three regions associ-ated with snake’s Sonic Hedgehog gene, known as the gene’s enhancer, were no longer present. 
During the research, the two also found that when ball 
python embryos formed, legs started to form during the ﬁ  rst day and then degenerated, Cohn said.   
“That to me was really amazing that there’s this kind 
of cryptic development of a nearly complete leg skeleton 
in the embryo,” Cohn said. 
- Isaac HellerUF research shows possible alternative to how 
solar systems form
Solar systems might form differently than was previ-
ously thought, UF researchers discovered.
UF astronomy professor Jian Ge and postdoctoral 
student Bo Ma found two massive planets — a gas giant 
and a brown dwarf — orbiting a single star within a 
two-star solar system, called HD 87646, Ge said.
The current theory of planet formation is based 
on the idea that large amounts of matter ﬂ  oat around 
newly formed stars in a disk shape, Ge said. While this process can form planets around one star, they are not 
usually as large as those in the HD 87646 system. 
“This system we found must have formed from some 
other method,” Ge said.
The planets orbiting the larger star are a brown 
dwarf, which is a colossal planet formed by a star that 
failed to ignite, and a gas giant, an enormous planet composed mostly of gases, he said. 
Though the two planets only orbit one star in the 
two-star system, the two stars are about as close to-gether as our sun is to Uranus, Ge said.
He said the discovery will likely cause astronomers 
to modify and re-evaluate long-established theories on planet formation.
- Christopher HarrisTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    12-2-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 
gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. 
Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., 
Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-
16-10-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FTCall or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    11-30-16-16-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-6-16-13-14
**GatorWell is Hiring!**Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 500529     12-2-16-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Energizes, with
“up”
5 Onetime TWA
rival
10 Lucy’s co-star
14 “Star Wars”
princess
15 Bakery draw16 “That’s so true!”17 Misfortunes18 Las Vegas
loser’s complaint
20 [“Get off the
stage!”]
22 Word with dog,
horse or lion
23 Bank acct.
posting
24 Critter “in the
headlights”
26 Worked hard30 Spoken
32 Make on the job
34 Explosive
emotion
35 Eight, en español36 Like some
committees
37 Martini ingredient38 Jack of nursery
rhymes
39 “Give __
chance!”
40 Grate residue
42 Chinese-born
architect I.M. __
43 Techie’s hangout
45 “Doggone it!”46 Dada pioneer
Jean
47 Speak hoarsely48 Landmark on
Missouri’s statequarter
49 Georgia, but not
Florida
51 Vatican City
currency
53 Uncanny claim56 Crime syndicate
leader
57 What a judge
may do during anarraignment
59 Grecian Formula
competitor
64 Invention
beginning
65 Roughly 30% of
Earth’s land area
66 Fall zodiac sign67 Denim pioneer
Strauss
68 Chimed69 “No bid,” in
bridge
70 Perfect spot
DOWN
1 “I was home
alone” isn’t a very
strong one
2 Breakfast fruit
3 *Screenwriter’s
work for the firstepisode
4 Merit badge
holder
5 Analyzed, as a
sentence
6 Got out of bed7 “__ again!”8 Invoice no.9 Leader with a
baton
10 __ Lama11 Big bird from
Down Under
12 “Hold on a __!”13 Pentel filler19 *Orangy Crayola
color
21 *Simple-to-use25 *Symbol of
bureaucracy
27 Dizzy ... and a
hint to the starts
of the answers to
starred clues28 Great Lakes
natives
29 Lairs of lions
31 “Of course!”
33 Ill-fated whale
chaser
35 Rossini creation36 Is home sick38 Stretch across41 Cul-de-__
44 Tubular Italian
pastries
48 Concert milieus50 Suitcase tie-on
52 App downloaders54 Kitchen strainer55 Opposite of
everything, inbageldom
58 Rancor
59 Jelly holder
60 Land “across the
pond” from the U.K.
61 Gluttony, e.g.62 Tear (into)63 Exec’s degree
By C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/29/1611/29/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 29, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
Polaris of Gainesville is looking for lot per-
sonnel. Prepping for delivery, lot & building maintenance, general upkeep. valid D.L and background check! Apply IN PERSON at 12556 NW HWY 441, Alachua, FL 32615    12-2-16-4-14
PT cleaner needed M-F &every other Saturday..weekly pay 8.50/hr must have your own transportation 20-30 hrs a week..must pass a drug/background check.. if in-terested please call 352-214-0868     12-5-16-5-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 
minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 Rides 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
While his team has struggled — both to win and to stay healthy — former Florida basketball player Dorian Finney-Smith is making the most of his opportunity, pg 16. Florida men's basketball team earns AP ranking
UF's men's basketball team emerged from a Thanksgiving tournament 
ranked No. 24 in this week's Associated Press T op-25 poll, released on Monday.  It is Florida's ﬁ  rst ranking since early in the 2014-15 season and it followed a 2-1 performance in the AdvoCare Invitational. By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
So, Jim McElwain, is your of-
fense ready for the mismatch it’s 
about to face in Saturday’s South-
eastern Conference Championship 
Game against Alabama’s defense?
“I don’t look at it as a mismatch 
at all,” the second-year UF head 
coach said.Are you sure? Let’s look at the 
numbers:
UF’s 104th-ranked scoring of-
fense vs. Alabama’s top-ranked 
scoring defense.
Florida’s 114th-ranked offense 
vs. Alabama’s top-ranked defense.
The Gators’ 127th ranked red-
zone offense against a Crimson Tide defense that has allowed op-
ponents to make just 18 trips inside their 20-yard line.
It’s not a mismatch?
“I look at it as a great opportu-
nity and, you know, that’s part of the chess match,” McElwain said. “I know this, we’re playing in this 
game and we’re going to give our-
selves every opportunity to be suc-cessful.”
Regardless of how it’s phrased, 
success has been hard to come by for this Florida offense as of late.
The Gators have recorded less 
than 300 yards in four of their last ﬁ  ve games, a stretch in which UF has gone 3-2. The team has eight 
touchdowns in that span, and two 
of them weren’t scored by the of-fense.
Against Florida State on Satur-
day, UF averaged a meager 3.23 
yards per play, scored on only two 
of its 14 drives and went 0-for-12 on third-down conversions en  McElwain embracing opportunity against 'Bama
UF lost to the Crimson Tide last season
Twenty years ago, “Space 
Jam” made its rounds in theaters across the world. 
And come Saturday, 
every millennial’s favorite 
movie will come to life.
Florida is a 24-point underdog 
against top-ranked Alabama in At-lanta’s Southeastern Conference Championship game this weekend, according to Bovada.
That can only lead one to draw 
comparisons between the Crimson Tide and the 1996 movie’s “Mon-
stars,” which were huge, monster-
like, uber-talented basketball play-ers.
UF coach Jim McElwain already 
got the ball rolling on Monday by calling Alabama’s players “crea-tures.”
So without further ado, here 
are your 2016 SEC Championship 
game “Space Jam” comparisons:
Nick Saban: Swackhammer
He’s big. He’s green. He’s ugly. OK, Nick Saban isn’t any of 
those (you’re welcome). But the Shrek-like Swackhammer is the Monstars’ evil boss, which makes Saban Alabama’s Swackhammer, 
which, by the way, is way too 
much fun to say. 
In the same way Swackham-
mer’s eyes turn red with anger as the Tune Squad fulﬁ  lls an epic comeback, Saban has experienced his fair share of sideline tirades this season. 
Saban blew up on offensive co-
ordinator Lane Kifﬁ  n during the Crimson Tide’s 38-10 win over Western Kentucky this season af-ter they let up a late touchdown. 
Boo-hoo.
Eddy Pineiro: Michael Jordan  
Let’s see. 
Michael Jordan was playing 
professional baseball before the Tune Squad kidnapped him to be a ringer on the court for them. 
And just two years ago, Pineiro 
was kicking soccer balls before he UF-'Bama: A real-
life 'Spac e Jam'
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15The Associated Press
Jim McElwain, right, talks with quarterback Luke Del Rio during Florida's loss to FSU on Saturday. This weekend, McElwain will face his 
former boss, Alabama's Nick Saban, for the second time in as many seasons. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Patrick Pinak
twitter: @J_McPherson1126NO, THIS IS PATRICK14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
Wednesday:
• Swimming and Diving @ U.S. Nationals in Atlanta, All 
Day
• Women’s basketball vs. Wofford in Ocala, 7 p.m., SEC Network+
Thursday:
• Swimming and Diving @ U.S. Nationals in Atlanta, All Day
• Men’s basketball @ North Florida, 7 p.m., 
ESPN 3
Friday:
• Swimming and Diving @ 
U.S. Nationals in Atlanta, All Day
• Volleyball vs. Alabama State, Round 1 of NCAA T ournament, 7 p.m.
Saturday:
• Women’s basketball vs. Long Beach State in T empe, Arizona, 4:30 p.m.
• Volleyball vs. NCAA second round, if it beats Alabama State• Swimming and Diving @ U.S. Nationals in Atlanta, All 
Day
• Football vs. Alabama in SEC Championship game, 4 
p.m., CBS
Sunday:
• Women’s Basketball vs. Boston University OR Arizona 
State, 1:30 or 4 p.m., ESPN GainesvilleTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
route to a 31-13 defeat. The high-
light scoring play for UF came on 
a Florida State punt return. Wide receiver Chris Thompson forced 
FSU’s return man to fumble a John-ny Townsend punt. UF safety Mar-cell Harris scooped the ball from 
the ground and ran 12 yards into 
the end zone for the easy — and only — Florida touchdown of the night.
Quarterback Austin Appleby 
was sacked a career-high six times 
in the loss, four of which came on 
third down and two of which re-sulted in lost fumbles.
“The key for us is going to be  
the consistency,” Appleby said. “We can’t shoot ourselves in the 
foot. We can’t have negative plays. 
We’ve got to stay on schedule and keep working.”
Alabama, on the other hand, has 
gone four weeks without allowing a touchdown and six-straight weeks without allowing an opponent to rack up 300 yards of offense.
“It’s definitely going to be a 
great challenge for our offense,” Appleby said. “With that said, our offense is going to be up for the challenge.”
Injury UpdateAdd Jordan Sherit to Florida’s 
ever-growing injury list. The red-shirt junior defensive lineman is out Saturday and will have surgery 
after injuring his knee during UF’s 
31-13 loss to Florida State. He’s one of eight players who McElwain said is out or “probably out” against 
Alabama. Four more players are 
going to be limited in practice this week, McElwain said.
“One of the things we talked 
about, whatever you can do to give 
to your team — even if it’s just one 
play, even if it’s the availability and energy to help the guys who are out there — that is what it’s going to 
take,” McElwain said. 
“I know our guys are looking 
forward to that.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg.13Sherit among injured players who won't play Saturdaystepped foot on the gridiron and 
eventually chose Florida over Ala-bama. Ultimately, though, McEl-wain lured his kicker to Gainesville without having to suck him 
through a four-inch wormhole. 
Like MJ, Pineiro has been clutch 
this season. He owns an SEC top-
five field goal percentage (81.8) and has hit nine field goals from at least 40 yards, good for second in the conference. 
Realistically, UF probably won’t 
have much success driving the ball 
against the Crimson Tide, which 
means Air Pineiro better keep his right leg warm.
Jordan Scarlett: Tasmanian 
Devil 
This one was just too obvious. The UF running back runs like 
he’s possessed. No, really. There’s 
an Associated Press photo of Scar-
lett making a maniacal facial ex-pression against LSU that proves it. 
Scarlett also feasts on opposing 
defenses like you would expect the world’s largest carnivorous marsu-pial would.
Over his last three games, the 
sophomore has totaled 295 rush-
ing yards and averaged more than 
five yards per carry. He’s been the horse the Gators have needed. 
And if Florida wants to take 
down Alabama, it’ll need Scar-lett slashing his way through the 
trenches much like the Tasmanian 
Devil did against the Monstars.
Austin Appleby: Bugs BunnyAnother easy one.Like Bugs Bunny, Austin Apple-
by is the captain of his team. 
Pair that lead-
ership with the 
quarterback’s unflinching  positivity and 
the fact that he 
concludes every press conference with the same cheerful “Go 
Gators,” and you have your ener-gizer bunny. 
Plus, Bugs delivered an abso-
lute dime of an alley-oop pass to 
Jordan that only a quarterback 
such as Appleby could make. 
Jalen Tabor: TweetyWhile he doesn’t bear any 
physical similarities to the ador-able tiny bird, Tabor is undoubt-edly Tweety. 
The reason? He’s not afraid to 
voice his opinion on Twitter. 
Along with conducting Q&As 
and hosting live videos, the star cornerback’s tweeted about con-troversial topics. In January he tweeted that college football is a “modern form of slavery,” which he later deleted and apologized for. 
Tweety also whooped some a-- 
in Space Jam, and Tabor has done that pretty much since Day 1 as a Gator. 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg.13Pineiro has 
been clutch
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby drops back to pass during Florida's loss to Florida State on Saturday. He was sacked 
a career-high six times against the Seminoles. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF volleyball coach Mary Wise talks to her team during UF's 3-1 win over Marshall on Sept. 17. 
Appleby
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016
GATORS IN THE NBA
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
As many NBA teams have start-
ed to find their groove through 
the first quarter of the 2016-2017 season, the Dallas Mavericks have struggled to even keep five 
healthy players on the court.
The Mavs have an NBA-worst 
3-13 record, and injuries to key 
players such as Dirk Nowitzki and Deron Williams have done nothing to help their cause.
The one positive to the tumul-
tuous start?
The coaching staff’s ability to 
evaluate young talent with a thin 
roster.
And that starts with former 
Florida star Dorian Finney-Smith.
The two-time second-team All-
Southeastern Conference forward 
went undrafted after his last year 
at Florida in 2015-2016 when he 
led the team in both points (14.7) and rebounds (8.3).
After signing a summer deal 
with Dallas, Finney-Smith has stuck with the team as an un-
drafted rookie. Now, with the 
Mavericks’ piling injuries, he has 
started eight games.Finney-Smith has modest av-
erages of 4.0 points and 1.9 re-
bounds per contest in 17.5 min-
utes per game.
While those aren’t eye-pop-
ping statistics, the Mavs must see 
potential in the 23-year-old as a 
forward who can play sound de-fense and space the floor.
Around the NBA:The summer of 2016 saw the 
NBA salary cap increase by a sig-
nificant amount, with role play-
ers and superstars alike getting 
mega-deals never before seen in 
the league.
Lucrative contracts have been 
signed, money has been handed 
out in bucket-tons and many players have found new homes.
But some players, including 
former Gators, have struggled to find their strides to start the year.
Former Florida center Al Hor-
ford has been solid while on the 
court with his new team, the Bos-
ton Celtics. He’s averaged 14.7 
points and 2.6 blocks per game, 
exceeding his career averages of 
14.3 and 1.2, respectively.
However, injuries have re-
strained his impact. He has been limited to just seven games while dealing with a concussion, which 
the NBA has been very careful 
with as of late.
Horford’s former UF team-
mate, Joakim Noah, also found a 
new home in the northeast, sign-
ing a 4-year, $72 million deal with the New York Knicks.
The big man has rebounded 
well and uses his uncanny abil-ity as a center to find open team-
mates consistently, but can’t find 
opportunities to score himself.
The 31-year-old has averaged 
4.1 points per game in 14 appear-
ances. If the season ended today, 
that would be a career low, and nearly two points lower than his rookie average of 6.6.
The Knicks sit at 8-8, and their 
18th-ranked offense could use a 
jolt from their nine-year veteran 
center.
Meanwhile, the Memphis Griz-
zlies are faring well without their 
freshly signed former Gator.
Forward Chandler Parsons 
has only been able to suit up six 
times through the Grizzlies’ first 
17 games while dealing with knee issues, but the team has still won seven out of its last eight contests and sit at fourth in the Western Conference at 11-6.
Still, Memphis would like to 
have back the sixth-year forward, 
who boasts career averages of 14.2 points and a .378 three-point 
percentage, especially with a $95 million contract looming over his head.
@skylerlebron
slebron@alligator.org
Finney-Smith getting early-season opportunity as rookie
The former Gator is averaging 17.5 minutes per game
The Associated Press
Dorian Finney-Smith (10) attempts a layup during the Dallas 
Mavericks’ loss to the Orlando Magic on Nov. 19 in Orlando.
The Associated Press
Boston Celtics center Al Horford (42) dunks against the Detroit Pistons during the second half of an NBA basketball game in Auburn Hills, Michigan, on Nov. 19. Horford scored 18 points and collected 11 rebounds in the Celtic’s 94-92 win over the Pistons.
 GAMES TO WATCH
College Basketball
• No. 17 Wisconsin vs. No. 22 Syracuse
 7:30 p.m. on ESPN
• No. 13 Indiana vs. No. 3 North Carolina
 Wednesday at 9 p.m. on ESPN
• North Florida vs. No. 24 Florida
 Thursday at 7 p.m. on ESPN3
NBA
• Los Angeles Clippers vs. Cleveland Cavaliers
 Thursday at 8 p.m. on TNT
• Golden State Warriors vs. Houston Rockets
 Thursday at 10:30 p.m. on TNT
NFL
• Minnesota Vikings vs. Dallas Cowboys
 Thursday at 8:25 p.m. on NBC