We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 2 TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
Jalen Tabor isn’t the only corner to 
fear on UF’s defense
Quincy Wilson looking to step up, pg. 14
UF students turn DIY hobbies into online shops
Hobbies include making jewelry and glassware, pg. 5
‘Big Hero 6’ actor to speak at assembly Friday
Ryan Potter will speak at the Asian American 
Student Assembly, pg. 9Slime Time
Photos from a slime event on campus, pg. 8
SOME WERE UNHAPPY 
WITH THE APOLOGY.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
After complaints over unprepared 
rooms and dirty conditions, a Pavilion on 
62nd Apartments senior vice president per-
sonally apologized Monday to at least two 
disgruntled tenants and offered to let them cancel their leases, the tenants said.
Along with about 10 others, Enrique Kopetman stood in a line Monday at the apartment complex as he waited to meet with Maureen Lannon, the senior vice 
president of marketing at Pierce Education 
Properties, L.P., which purchased Pavilion in late May.
On Saturday, when Kopetman walked 
into what would soon become his daugh-
ter’s new unit, he said there were bed bugs 
and stains on her bed — and the whole place smelled of feces and urine. Other ten-ants had similar complaints.
Once Kopetman and Lannon met, after 
a more-than-two-hour wait, he told her he wanted her to cancel his lease, and she obliged and even offered to return the se-curity deposit, he said.
“When I met with [her], she was very 
apologetic,” Kopetman said. “She said, ‘This is not the way we do things.’”
Kopetman said his daughter Sara is stay-
ing with friends until they can ﬁ  nd another 
apartment for her to move into.
After previously stating he planned to 
hire a lawyer, Kopetman said Monday he 
has decided not to take legal action despite 
his struggle over the weekend.
“I got what I wanted,” Kopetman said.In a written statement issued Sunday, 
Bob Hetherington, a representative of 
the apartment complex, said the problem 
stemmed from the premature departure 
of one of two professional cleaning ﬁ  rms hired to help prepare the apartments.
On Monday, in a second statement, 
Hetherington said Lannon’s conversations 
with tenants “provided residents with reas-
surance and the open communication fos-tered conﬁ  dence among most participants about the year ahead.”
However, at least one tenant said she  Pavilion vice president apologizes for unﬁ  t apartments
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students and faculty are tak-
ing action against sexual assault on 
campus by clarifying one word: con-
sent.
UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interper-
sonal Violence Education, in col-laboration with GatorWell, launched a sexual consent health communi-
cation campaign Monday, said Rita 
Lawrence, an interpersonal violence prevention coordinator.
“We’ve learned that students 
still have a hard time understanding what is consent,” she said. “So we 
really wanted to give some guidance 
about what works when it comes to consent.”
A survey by the Association of 
American Universities, released in 2015, found the number of sexual 
assaults at UF matched the national 
level, which is considered an epi-demic, she said.
After months of talking to stu-
dents to understand the campus cli-mate about sexual assault and what 
they think consent is, the organiza-
tions looked to ﬁ  nd a way to best reach students, Lawrence said.
They found students understood 
consent better after seeing colorful, vibrant comic strips that described 
ways it can and can’t be given. She 
said while it can be nonverbal, ver-bal consent is the best way to know 
both people agree. 
And consent to one activity 
doesn’t necessarily equal consent to everything, Lawrence added. 
A 2014 report by GatorWell asked  STRIVE UF launches 
consent campaign
A BLAST OF COLOR
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff 
Students toss colored powder into the air during the Frizpops in Color event on Flavet Field on Mon-
day evening. The event was hosted by Cru at UF and featured a game of Frisbee and fruit popsicles.
SEE STRIVE,  PAGE 4SEE PAVILION,  PAGE 4
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police announced Monday 
that several blocks of West University Ave-
nue will be closed during every home foot-
ball game as part of a new safety measure.
Beginning three hours before kickoff 
and ending two hours after games begin, street blocks between Northwest 17th 
Street and Gale Lemerand Drive will be closed to vehicle trafﬁ  c, with multiple de-tours available, according to a GPD state-ment issued Monday.
The closures were motivated by what 
GPD Cpt. Jorge Campos described as recent attacks aimed at people in the U.S. and abroad. During a press conference Mon-day, Campos speciﬁ  cally mentioned the ve-hicular attack last month in Nice, France, which left more than 80 people dead.
“I think that is a good example of what 
can happen when you have a runaway ve-hicle,” he said of the attack.
On gamedays, as thousands of pedes-
trians swarm to Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on West University Avenue, pregame joy could quickly turn to tragedy, he said.
Campos said guarding the safety of the city’s public remains GPD’s highest prior-ity.
The department began discussing the 
possibility of implementing the gameday closures about four weeks ago, Campos said. Similar action was taken after the 9/11 terrorist attacks and the death of 
GPD Lt. Corey Dahlem, who was struck by 
a drunk driver following a championship basketball game in 2007.
 GPD announces new football gameday road closures
SEE CLOSURES,  PAGE 4University Avenue will be afectedSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights: Views from the 
Swamp
Welcome back, Gators. Whether 
you’re part of UF class of 2020 or class of 2017, we have events for you all year long. On Friday, 
get ready for views from The 
Swamp. From 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., 
GatorNights will be featuring a national comedian and our very 
own improv group, Theatre Strike 
Force. Dare to try Ballistic Swings and Zorb Balls on the North Lawn or karaoke at Midnight Munchies , which will be a taco/nacho bar. For those who missed “Captain America: Civil War” this sum-mer or want to see it again, we’ll be screening it at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday, always free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.   
Gay Movie Night: 'G.B.F.' (Gay 
Best Friend)  The event will take place Friday at 7:30 p.m. at the Pride Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13th St. Two best friends, Tanner and Brent, go through high school while being secretly in the closet. Brent longs for the spotlight and has a plan that will make him the most popular kid in school. He believes coming out will make him instantly popular, as the newest must-have teen girl “ac-cessory”: The G.B.F. (i.e. Gay Best Friend). Tanner, on the other hand, would rather fly un-der the radar and graduate from high school without ever being noticed. When things don’t go according to plan and Tanner is outed instead of Brent, the two boys go from BFFs to instant frenemies, and the three most popular girls in school launch an all-out social war to win Tanner’s status-enhancing friendship. Meanwhile, Tanner must choose between skyrocketing popular-ity and the friends he is leaving behind. Gay Movie Night is on the last Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 dona-tion is requested to help cover the cost of snacks.
STRIVE at GatorWell’s Sexual 
Consent CampaignAre you and your friends clear about sexual consent? Certain nonverbal communication or cultural scripts can result in sexual assault. Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence Education 
at GatorWell has created the 
Sexual Consent campaign to help 
reduce the incidence of sexual assault through knowledge, be-
lief and behavior. Check it out at 
gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact 
Rita Lawrence (RitaL@ufsa.ufl.
edu or 352-273-4452) for more information and to request ma-
terials.
Museum’s ‘Butterfly Rainforest’ 
exhibit to close at 4 p.m. 
through Oct. 6
The "Butterfly Rainforest" exhibit 
at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History will close early at 4 p.m., with last admission at 3:30 p.m., through Oct. 6 for scheduled 
maintenance. The exhibit will 
also be closed all day Sept. 7 
and Oct. 5 for roof maintenance. Please visit flmnh.ufl.edu or call 352-846-2000 for more informa-tion.
Global Culture Photography 
Contest If you are part of UF students, faculty, staff or alumni traveling abroad or a UF international stu-dent or scholar, you are eligible to enter the 2016 Global Culture Photography Competition. Judges will award a first, second and third place in each of four categories. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize winners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will re-ceive $25. There will be a total of $525 awarded. No photographic experience is required, just a love for snapping pictures and a yearning to explore. The submis-sion period is open. Entries must be received no later than Oct. 7. For complete information visit ufic.ufl.edu.
GatorNights: Gator Tailgate
It’s time to get pumped for Gator football season and GatorNights has you covered! GatorNights will host a Gator Tailgate on Sept. 2 from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. and will feature tailgate games, live music and your favorite mascot, Albert. Show off your football knowledge and outwit fellow fans during Gator football trivia. Take the Gator spirit home with you as you stuff your own Gator! Bring a friend and laugh it up as "Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising" plays at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Our Midnight Munchies will be held in the Reitz Union food court, fea-turing a tailgate classic: Swamp 
Barbeque. GatorNights is always 
Friday, always free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards at 
the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate 
and are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.   
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 2410 
NW 43rd St., invites you to learn 
the ancient art of belly dancing 
in a free master class by the Al Amoura Dancers. It will be Sept. 10 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 
352-727-7071 for more informa-
tion.
The Annual Movers and Shakers 
Gala
Professionals from all over are 
invited to attend this unique red 
carpet, all-VIP networking event. The gala is held only once a year to create a special energy that will foster more interaction and com-munication between participants. Though upscale and elite, the at-mosphere of the gala will be low-pressure in order to encourage effective networking that will es-tablish meaningful and profitable relationships and partnerships. The Movers and Shakers Gala will be Oct. 1 at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, located at 2809 W. University Ave. The gala will include food, an open bar, live entertainment and prizes. Tickets are $25. For more information, please call 352-208-4894 or email vgrant@gainesvilleblackprofes-sionals.com. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  93° LOW  74°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Michael Smith     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 2TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
BACK 
ON THE 
GRIND
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Trey Piper, left, an 18-year-old UF mechanical engineering freshman, and Sami 
Mangioni, an 18-year-old UF sustainability studies freshman, enjoy free time after ﬁ  nishing their ﬁ  rst classes on Monday.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Right: Students line the sidewalk outside Farrior Hall on Monday as they wait to see an adviser for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff 
Jaylen Williams, 20, a UF advertising junior, searches the shelves for his required textbooks at the UF Bookstore on Monday.Map Data ®2016 Google
The section of West University Avenue outlined above will be temporarily closed during football 
games this year.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Renovations at the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center will be completed this Fall in time for this year’s basketball season.
Over the summer, demolition finished 
for the main arena entrance and a concrete foundation for permanent seats on the second 
floor were installed, said Chip Howard, the 
University Athletic Association’s executive 
associate athletic director for internal affairs. Construction on the entrance, concession stands and seating area is ongoing.
The project will cost $64.5 million, How-
ard said. 
According to a January Alligator article, 
the cost was previously reported as $53.7 million by UF spokespersons, who receive in-
formation from the UF planning, design and 
construction division. But Howard said the 
price has always been estimated to be $64.5 million.Along with the entrance, additional space 
for gymnastic team locker rooms, offices 
and a dance studio is being added. The new 
sound system, video screen, flooring, lighting and energy-efficient electricity system will be completed in time for the first home basket-
ball game Dec. 21, Howard said, bringing the 
arena up-to-date.
“It was 30-plus years old and really had 
not had a significant technological upgrade,” 
he said, “and now I think it stands as one of 
the best.”
UF student Miriam Brown said she didn’t 
realize it needed an update when construction began.
“I thought it was pretty nice already,” the 
20-year-old UF health education and behavior 
senior said. “Hopefully it lives up to all the 
hype. It’s always nice to make something look brand new.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgO’Connell Center renovations on schedule for completion
was dissatisfied with Lan-
non’s peace offering.
When Elizabeth Pro-
van’s daughter Carly walked into what she thought would be her new apartment unit Saturday, someone was already liv-ing there, Provan said.
“The management did 
call me today to tell me that they were trying to figure things out, but our 
apartment we were given 
was occupied by someone else when we walked in,” Provan said. “It was also absolutely disgusting — I 
wouldn’t even take my dog 
there.”
Lannon offered to can-
cel Provan’s lease, but 
“that’s just not enough,” 
Provan said.
“The company put 
us through an absolute nightmare,” she said. “My 
daughter has had three or 
four anxiety attacks at this point and has nowhere to live.”
She said she plans to 
seek legal action as soon as possible. 
Jon Adcock, the director 
of the office of UF Student Legal Services, said any UF 
student who wishes to ex-
plore legal options should visit the office. The of-fice’s website offers a link 
to a summary of Florida’s 
Landlord and Tenant law.
“Whether the company 
is breaking any law would have to be determined on 
a case-by-case basis,” Ad-
cock said, “but students who want to explore their options should come see us 
this week.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org PAVILION,  from pg 1Tenants could cancel leases
Along with the closures, GPD 
announced extra Emergency 
Medical Service personnel with 
the Gainesville Fire Rescue would 
be stationed at the closed-off area of West University Avenue dur-ing gamedays — as well as near 
the stadium itself, where they are 
usually stationed.
Additional city-parking-en-
forcement employees will also be in the area to prevent illegal park-
ing near the area of the closures, 
Campos said.
To remind motorists of the clo-
sures, temporary message signs 
will be placed at key intersections 
along West University Avenue. 
Announcements will also be 
published via social media the week before each home game, ac-cording to the statement issued by GPD.
Residents may soon be able 
to view the detour routes via the 
smartphone app Waze, although 
Campos said integrating the routes into the app’s GPS is still a work in progress.
The closures, reviewed by the 
Florida Department of Transpor-tation, were developed in part-nership with University Police, the University Athletic Asso-
ciation, the UF administration, 
Gainesville Fire Rescue and City of Gainesville Public Works, ac-cording to the statement.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgCLOSURES,  from pg 1There will also be extra 
staff monitoring parkinggroups of UF students about their thoughts on 
sexual violence, consent and resources on 
campus. They found students believed there’s 
an expectation to opt out of having sex instead 
of opting in.
“Indeed the expectation was for women 
in particular to assertively let their ‘no’ be known,” the report stated. “If women do not 
clearly and firmly say no, then any sexual ac-tivity is considered to be consensual.”
Lawrence said the campaign is looking to 
change that perception.
“The clearer you are, the better, and we 
just believe that talking about it can add to that clarity,” she said. “It could be as easy as ‘Is this OK?’” or a head nod, she added. 
The comic strips, which the organization uses to spearhead the campaign, also depicts same-sex and even interracial couples. Law-rence said STRIVE will also table at events, 
where students can get free T-shirts, bags and 
condom kits that promote the movement. 
Students can also request presentations 
explaining consent in their classes, Lawrence said. 
Tuong-Vi Le, 23, a peer educator with 
STRIVE, said the comic strips showing diverse couples received positive feedback from stu-dents. 
“It shows that they take it seriously and 
they do want to see the type of diversity they see in life,” the UF health education graduate 
student said. “We want to represent different 
populations in the community.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgSTRIVE,  from pg 1The campaign uses comic stripsCaitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
The $64.5 million Stephen C. O’Connell Center is on track to be completed in time for 
UF’s first home basketball game on Dec. 21.
4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
The first game there is Dec. 21TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
For 20-year-old UF student Ma-
rissa Ogburn, making necklaces 
and pendants in her apartment is far from a hobby — it’s a way to pay for school and fund trips over-seas.
“It was my spending money in 
high school,” she said, “but last year it paid for part of my study 
abroad … and I deﬁ  nitely use it for 
school as well.”
Ogburn, a sport management 
and business junior, is part of a 
niche group of cash-strapped stu-
dents who have turned to selling 
handmade crafts online for extra 
income.
Seventy percent of college stu-
dents feel stressed out about their 
ﬁ  nances, according to a national 
study conducted by The Ohio State University’s Ofﬁ  ce of Student Life. 
Co-author Anne McDaniel said ﬁ  nding a way to make ends meet at school weighs heavily on students.
Still, through free marketing 
platforms and social media, inno-vative students are ﬁ  nding ways to survive their ﬁ  nancial burden while still having money for their social lives.
On websites and apps like Etsy, 
Instagram and Gainesville’s Free and For Sale Facebook page, UF students looking to pad their pock-ets can be found selling jewelry, hand-painted glassware and even shot glasses made from recycled liquor bottles.
Interested customers can con-
tact sellers directly on Etsy, making the transaction simple.
Andrew Zacharakis, the direc-
tor of the Babson College Entre-preneurial Research Conference, said students may ﬁ  nd avenues of income if they create products that resonate with enough customers.
“It might set them up to create a 
larger, more sustainable enterprise in the future,” he said.
Rebecca Diaz, a second-year UF 
veterinary student, said she has been selling customized, hand-painted glassware since December. What originally started as a Christ-mas present for friends has now turned into a modest source of dis-posable income.
“Veterinary school is basically a 
full-time job,” the 23-year-old said. “It doesn’t necessarily help with those bills, but it deﬁ  nitely helps with spending money so I don’t have to take out loans to have a life.”
@mollyidonovan
 mdonavan@alligator.org
UF students turn DIY hobbies into extr a cash with online shops
Courtesy to the Alligator
Twenty-year-old UF student Marissa Ogburn poses with some of the jewelry she makes and sells. For her, it’s more than a hobby. It’s a way to pay for school and fund trips overseas.
WELCOMING GAINESVILLE WILL 
PARTNER WITH UF GROUPS.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
When Paula Rötscher came to UF from 
Germany in 2012, she was greeted with 
open arms. But she noticed not all interna-
tional students had as easy a time.
Some needed help with English, and 
others struggled to get involved in the 
community, she said.
Now the executive director of the non-
proﬁ  t Welcoming Gainesville, Rötscher said she is hoping to help new internation-al residents adjust by partnering with more 
than a dozen community organizations to 
promote their services and offer her own.
In the coming months, she said she 
aims to start offering an English-language 
class for residents in conjunction with the 
Latina Women’s League and UF’s English Language Institute.
“One of the best ways for someone to 
become part of the community is to inter-
act with different residents, and you can’t 
really do that if you can’t speak English,” she said.
Rötscher also said she hopes to teach 
city residents about others’ stories by hav-ing international residents act out their im-migration stories in a play she is trying to 
organize with local theaters.
“We hope immigrants who come to our 
community will come forward and share 
their stories,” Rötscher said.
Richard MacMaster, 81, met Rötscher 
when she interned for him in 2015 at Gainesville’s Interfaith Alliance for Im-
migrant Justice. At the time, he wanted Gainesville to join almost 100 cities as part of Welcoming America, an organization 
that encourages tolerance in communities.
He knew Rötscher would be perfect to 
head Welcoming Gainesville after a resolu-
tion to create it passed the city commission 
in February. Gainesville was the ﬁ  rst city to join in Florida. Alachua County joined in June.
“We all need each other,” MacMas-
ter said. “I hope the city and the county become a city and a model for the rest of Florida.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org Local nonproﬁ  t to oﬀ  er English classes  for immigrantsMONEY
“One of the best ways for someone to 
become part of the community is to 
interact with diferent residents.”
Paula Rötscher  
Executive Director, Welcoming GainesvilleThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Bathroom battle:
The need for an 
honest conversation
Well, congratulations, Gator Nation, we made it through 
a successful ﬁ  rst day together. Hopefully you now feel comfortable looking toward the rest of the semester. And even if you’re still feeling kinda “meh” about re-turning, consider yourself lucky — at least you got to 
pee in peace.
Our nation’s children and their families woke up yesterday 
morning to a surprise in their back-to-school bundle. Along with a fresh pair of sneakers and fancy pens, they also got hit with U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor’s injunction on transgender stu-dents’ access to bathrooms. Happy ﬁ  rst day of school, huh kids? 
After the heated debate we’ve seen over transgender bathroom 
rights since the Obama administration’s May advisory for school districts to allow transgender students bathroom access based on 
gender identity, and the subsequent lawsuit ﬁ  led by a number of 
states against this advisory, this injunction from O’Connor, dated Sunday, could make the federal guidelines outlined in the ad-ministration’s advisory unenforceable until the lawsuit is settled.
Now, we at the Alligator take issue with this injunction for a 
few reasons. Among other grievances, O’Connor slammed the administration using the federal education law against sex dis-crimination, Title IX, to justify bathroom access based on gender identity. He argued Title IX unambiguously deﬁ  nes sex as, “the 
biological and anatomical differences between male and female 
students as determined at their birth.” But if you actually read the full text of Title IX (which isn’t long at all), you won’t ﬁ  nd any-where an explicit deﬁ  nition of its use of the term “sex.” O’Connor claims Title IX is “not ambiguous” about its use of the word sex, but the law is entirely ambiguous because the deﬁ  nition isn’t im-plied or assumed. That’s exactly what being ambiguous means.
O’Connor blasting the Obama administration’s interpretation 
of Title IX to apply to gender is absurd because of how little hard 
evidence there is to back his argument. He also argued, “This 
case presents the difﬁ  cult issue of balancing the protection of students’ rights and that of personal privacy … while ensuring that no student is unnecessarily marginalized while attending school.” But if we were really concerned about keeping kids from feeling unnecessarily marginalized, we’d be supporting access based on gender identity rather than ﬁ  ghting it.
And as far as protection is concerned, this entire issue involves 
schools and students: In any school, there should be enough staff 
and faculty to ensure the safety of students; this bathroom de-
bacle is just noise. Kids are more at realistic risk of harm during recess or walking home from school than in the school bathroom.
With all of these weak side arguments, it seems O’Connor just 
opposes transgender bathroom access but won’t explicitly state it. If you’re really just genuinely concerned with the motions, than admit it so we can have a real conversation.
We realize transgender bathroom access makes some of you 
very uncomfortable, particularly because you want your kids to 
be safe when they use the restroom. No one’s advocating making 
kids less safe. But we need to be honest and open about the posi-tions we hold and the reasons why.
We’ve argued this point before, and we’ll say it again: Trans-
gender bathroom access shouldn’t be this left-versus-right issue it’s become; it’s an issue of civil rights. It’s one thing to say you support trans people, but that support will only have meaning when we accept them into society — not as people in denial of who they really are or people stuck in transition, but simply as 
people being people.
Let people be, and let people pee.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORHello, everyone. To those of you who 
don’t know me, my name is Zachary Lee. To those of you who do know me and enjoy the column, I sincerely thank you for your time, and I’m glad you’ll 
be joining me again this Fall. To those of you who do know me and don’t like my column, thanks for reading it anyway. I’m grateful you read the column the way I watch Fox News: to hear the other side of the conversation.
With classes ofﬁ  cially starting this week, I ﬁ  gured I’d 
do what I always do to prepare for classes: load up the ol’ Reddit account and prepare myself for a semester full of mindless clicking during lectures.
While on Reddit, I decided to mosey on over to the UF 
subreddit, which I rarely read, let alone comment in. There was a post there asking about the campus community in terms of diversity, respect, tolerance, etc. The title of the post read, “How Racist is UF?”
This question, while likely well-intended, seemed odd. 
The tone and phrasing of the question are akin to asking, “How stupid are the athletes here?” I mean, most athletes here are brilliant individuals who contribute to this cam-pus not just with their athletic ability but inside the class-room as well. Others are really f------ embarrassing (see Gator alumnus Ryan Lochte).
Similarly, most of the people I’ve encountered on cam-
pus are not racist in the slightest. I’ve also met a few abso-lute a--holes who casually throw around horrible, embar-rassing and humiliating words, have the Confederate ﬂ  ag draped across their living rooms and “The-silent-majority-stand-with-Trump” signs dangling from their windows. Sadly, not so silent. Thankfully, not the majority.
After the shock of the initial question had worn through, 
I read the description. The author of the question describes herself as a “black female” who is “very vocal about things such as Black Rights, White Supremacy, Slavery, Colonial-ization, etc.” I think that’s awesome. All of those are fascinating and controversial topics I encour-age you to discuss with your peers here. I also encourage you to get involved in political orga-nizations and campus special-interest groups that align with your opinions (of which I’m sure you and I actually agree on), and engage in civic responsibilities and duties to make this nation even more respectful, transparent, fair and just to all of her citizens.
Additionally in the explanation I noticed mention of the 
infamous “Black Face Party held at the University a while ago” (two party-goers, not the entire party). You’ve found some of the few I was talking about earlier; I apologize on their behalf for their shameful and disgusting behavior.
Regardless, this campus is not your “safe space.” Nei-
ther is the world beyond it. We here at UF are incredibly proud of our diverse community and pride ourselves on the fact that, while most campuses have safe spaces, we have free speech zones. I’m not kidding when I say speech is so unbelievably free here. Come Spring, you will walk through Turlington Plaza and Plaza of the Americas while some incredibly disrespectful citizens from Ohio politicize the bodies of aborted fetuses and display photographs of them in graphic detail for you to grimace at as you try to walk to class.
I understand where you’re coming from. Sincerely. 
Black women have it absurdly hard in this country. I encourage you to read Kristie Dotson’s (a brilliant black female philosopher who specializes in feminism) “Track-ing Epistemic Violence, Tracking Practices of Silencing.” I want you to keep ﬁ  ghting the good ﬁ  ght. I want to ﬁ  ght that ﬁ  ght with you. But we all need to watch our tones in these conversations, because really important things get lost in the crossﬁ  re of battle.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays. 
 Let’s ﬁ  ght the good ﬁ  ght with some clear heads
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
No one calls me “Open Mike.”
Well, it’s the beginning of the Fall 
semester. That’s nice. It’s not better 
than the end of the semester, but it’s deﬁ  nitely better than the semester’s 
halfway point. So, I’d say the beginning is somewhere in the middle, or something to that end. 
For the folks who didn’t get a glimpse of 
the Alligator’s New Student Edition: Howdy, my name is Michael. I’m a sustainability stud-ies sophomore, all of my childhood heroes are white, I have an uncanny afﬁ  nity for tall, blonde women, I don’t really know the mean-ing of the words “uncanny” or “appropriation” and when I was 3 years old my mother slipped on a banana peel and fractured her spine. It’s a pleasure to meet you. 
This summer I tried my hand at stand-up 
comedy and got my a-- handed back to me. A hand for an a-- wasn’t a bad deal ultimately, because I learned a whole bunch from writ-ing routines and participating during open-mic nights. I’m not much of a performer — and it showed — but the material I wrote evolved pretty swiftly after the ﬁ  rst few weeks. The routines went from strings of one-liners to actual sto-ries with asides, arcs and punch lines. The writing process was a journey. The performance process was not. 
Any novice or amateur artist has 
a hard time getting their art noticed and received. I’d wager, though, that stand-up comedians have it the hardest. Most artistic mediums receive some sort of editing treatment; writing gets an editor or multiple drafts, ﬁ  lm gets video editing and both ﬁ  lm and theatre get a director’s guidance and su-pervision. Improvisational comedy gets a free pass because the audience knows the comedy is impromptu and tends to welcome the bi-zarre spontaneity of even a mediocre perfor-mance. Stand-up comedy, however, needs a real audience in order to be edited — a quality few other art forms share. Because of this, stand-up is, in 
my eyes, a much more personal art form, but the process of craft-ing good stand-up requires the comedian to be received, judged and exposed more than any other artist can be. It’s pretty cool, re-ally. Don’t get me wrong: Putting out art is always difﬁ  cult; you’re taking something personal and hoping it resonates with an audi-
ence, which you can’t always guarantee. But most of your time as a novice stand-up come-dian at an open-mic night involves awkward silence, insincere delivery and sweating.
The audience plays a weird role for a devel-
oping artist. An audience should by no means lie to an artist about the quality of his or her work, nor should they provide any sort of de-structive criticism. And most people are polite audience members. Perhaps the hardest thing for a ﬂ  edgling comedian to understand is that silence is the most polite thing an unimpressed audience member can give to a performer. It sounds pretty obvious when you think about it, but the performer deﬁ  nitely doesn’t catch a polite vibe from any dissatisﬁ  ed audience. It’s spooky.
This piece has an opinion in here some-
where. Deﬁ  nitely somewhere. Most of my opinions involve asking you to respect com-edy, and in this case I ask you to respect the comedians who have it the worst. Of course, I’d hate to assume you don’t, but the sentiment is still there. When you see an artist, anticipate the art to be good. Go in with a positive out-look. I’m under the impression people attend open-mic nights with the assumption that the acts will be terrible. And while they’re usually right, that outlook proves to be toxic for the artists. Any artist, really. And that seems obvi-ous, too. I’m largely unnecessary.
Michael Smith is a Santa Fe College math-
ematics freshman and is ravished with the level of ﬂ  exibility he receives in his columns because he’s a copy editor.  
 Lessons from ‘Open Mike’: how to handle improv and open-mic nightsColumn
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org
Frank Ocean’s name will forever be linked to my languid, quiet Gainesville summers and feelings of intense disap-pointment. With so little to do in this collegiate ghost town, any word of the 
neo-soul artist’s elusive and highly anticipated second studio album was guaranteed to make my day. Ocean’s acclaimed debut studio al-bum “Channel Orange” was the soundtrack of my waning high-school years and my per-sonal introduction to how alternative rhythm and blues could sound and feel. “Pyramids” constantly streamed out of my car’s stereo, mixing with the sounds of teenage prattle and late nights on the interstate. So when the hype surrounding his next album began to reach a fever pitch, I was undoubtedly invested.
If you haven’t heard anything about this 
album or fans’ cyclical disappointment with its constant delays, I applaud your ability to shield yourself from all forms of social media. When Ocean ﬁ  rst alluded to a joint album pro-duction called “Boys Don’t Cry” on his Tum-blr with the hashtags “#ISSUE1 #ALBUM3 #JULY2015,” I was ﬁ  lled with childlike opti-mism. Thirty-one July mornings were spent hoping I’d wake up to a new album, with subsequent disappoint-ment growing each day I didn’t see it. Twitter ﬂ  ooded with crying Michael Jordan memes begging Ocean to drop the album. Reddit users analyzed the website’s code to reveal a hidden col-lection of “Boys Don’t Cry” merchan-dise and stoked fans’ hopes that the album’s release was imminent. This cycle repeated when Ocean released a cryptic picture of a library card with the date July 2016 stamped on the bottom.
But I had learned my lesson, and I knew it 
was too good to be true. Yet another swelter-ing Gainesville July came and went without the album, reafﬁ  rming my musical trust is-sues. An anonymous source from The New York Times promised an album Aug. 5, a promise that inevitably fell through. It wasn’t until a live stream appeared on that god-for-saken “Boys Don’t Cry” website that I started to put together what might be going on in the reclusive artist’s mind. Stark black-and-white video footage of Ocean com-ing in and out of a construction zone over the course of 18 days, using a ménage of power tools with hushed instrumentals fad-ing in and out of the background was just outlandish and listless enough to infuriate the Internet. What the hell could he possibly be making? Was this some sort of elaborate troll?
Ocean’s glacial pace and artis-
tic precision quickly became the video’s focal point, transforming the construction zone into a meditation on creative space. In the age of instant gratiﬁ  cation and artistic commodiﬁ  ca-tion, Ocean forced an immense fan base to be patient and accept that their needs couldn't dictate how and when the album came about. We watched his creative process in real time and were forced to confront how painstak-ingly measured and slow it moved.
In the end, the “Boys Don’t Cry” we had 
expected for the last four years was never tru-ly delivered. Ocean released a visual album ti-tled “Endless,” a studio album titled “Blonde” and a publication titled “Boys Don’t Cry” over the course of last week, with each one offering a slightly tweaked version of the same core message. “Blonde” echoes the poetic soul of “Channel Orange” without many of pop’s tra-ditional trappings, as Ocean is stripped down to his piano, serene electronic instrumentals and avant-garde vocal manipulations. It’s ev-erything we needed and nothing we expected.
Some Ocean fans may still grumble at the 
progression of delays, teasers and false prom-ises that led up to the release of “Blonde,” but it taught a much-needed lesson of respect for the creative process and acceptance of de-layed gratiﬁ  cation in the digital age. Ocean seemed appreciative in return for our patience when he posted this on his Tumblr: “Thank you all. Especially those of you who never let me forget I had to ﬁ  nish. Which is basically every one of y’all. Haha. Love you.”
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays. 
 Two years late, Frank Ocean’s ‘Blonde’ teaches patience in the digital ageColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
Above: Ryan Leavitt, an 18-year-old UF computer engineering 
freshman, gets slimed after being named the representative of a losing team.
Left: Members of the Theatre Strike Force improvisation team 
perform on stage as part of the comedy, interactive games and slime featured during the event. 
On Monday evening, UF’s Inter-Residence Hall Association and Theatre Strike Force hosted Slimefest on Weaver Beach as part of it’s Resi-dence Hall Week 2016. Students were given the chance to be drenched in green goo, as made fa-mous by Nickelodeon’s “Slime Time Live. ”
Right: Bridgette Hattle, left, a 19-year-old UF 
junior, and Mel Ferrin, a UF psychology fresh-man, receive a slime bath after their respective teams lost in an improvisation game on Monday evening. 
SLIME 
TIME
Photos by Max Chesnes
Alligator Staff 
Ferrin, 19, gets slimed after her Theatre Strike Force team member lost in a competition.By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A lead voice actor from the Disney 
movie “Big Hero 6” will speak at the 
Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Friday night. 
The Asian American Student Union 
is hosting Ryan Potter, who voiced main character Hiro Hamada in the animated movie, as the keynote speaker at their 23rd Annual Asian American Student Assembly at 6:30 p.m. Friday, said Kai-tlyn Rewis, a co-executive director for AASA.
“Having someone that is able to play 
their own culture and represent it well is a big thing for us,” the 21-year-old UF biochemistry and architecture senior said, adding that Potter resonated with 
the event’s theme, Fuel the Flame.
The free event, funded by Student 
Government, cost $122,485, she said. 
Potter is being paid $7,000 to speak. 
Rewis said she expects more than 
1,000 students to attend.“We’re one of the only assemblies 
that can ﬁ  ll up the Phillips Center,” she said. 
Howie Johnson, 21, said he attends 
AASU’s assembly event every year. 
The UF applied 
physiology and ki-
nesiology senior said the event is a way to introduce freshmen to campus involve-
ment.
“It’s an integral 
part in really setting the tone for these 
freshmen, showing them that this is a fun organization to be a part of,” he said.
Johnson said he was looking forward 
to seeing the freshmen at the assembly. 
“I’m excited for the new year to start 
and having new faces come in to the or-
ganization,” he said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
 ‘Big Hero 6’ actor to speak 
at UF freshman assembly
POSTER PICKIN’
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff 
Nineteen-year-old Laurel Friedman, left, a UF exploratory sophomore, and Helen Jeong, 19, a UF 
nursing sophomore, sift through posters during the biannual sale at the Reitz Union on Monday.
Potter
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
David Nassau had a full-time job 
waiting for him after graduating this Summer, and he says he owes it to UF’s Innovation Academy. 
“I earned it by gaining experience 
that IA offers and taking advantage of my Fall semesters,” the 22-year-old said. 
Nassau, who graduated with business and marketing bachelor’s 
degrees, was one of 59 students who 
completed a minor in innovation this 
Summer. He was part of the ﬁ  rst class of students in the four-year program.
Jeff Citty, the director of the pro-
gram, said IA had 28 students gradu-
ate with the minor in Spring while 
the majority ﬁ  nished in August. 
Students accepted into the pro-
gram follow a speciﬁ  c curriculum during Spring and Summer semes-ters, leaving Fall open for internships, research or online classes, Citty said. 
Citty said the program has ex-
panded to include more staff and a reformed curriculum. 
Being a part of IA makes students 
more marketable and gives them a 
competitive edge, he said. 
“Regardless of major,” Citty said, 
“it enhances their skill set for where 
they’re going, whether that’s gradu-ate school, their own start-up busi-
ness or working for someone else.”
Rey Pierre, 22, said he saw an 
opportunity to leave his mark at UF by being a part of the program’s ﬁ  rst 
class. 
“The inaugural class got a blank 
check of sorts,” he said. “We got to make it what we wanted.”
He said opportunities for intern-
ships were possible partly because 
of IA, but mostly because he worked 
for them. 
By being a part of the program, 
the UF information systems senior 
said IA taught him to not be afraid to 
try something new. 
“People that want to be trailblaz-
ers and leave their mark still have a great opportunity to do so,” he said. 
“The opportunity is there if you take 
it.” 
Nassau, who’s moving to Califor-
nia to work for Intel Corp., a technol-
ogy corporation, said having a minor that is exclusive to a limited amount 
students in each graduating class is a 
good thing, especially in a competi-
tive environment. 
“It makes you that much more in-
teresting, too,” he said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  Inaugural Innovation Academy class says goodbye to UF  
87 students graduated10   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
By Marianna Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Though students can still explore UF’s on-
campus butterfly exhibit, renovations are un-
derway.
The Florida Museum of Natural History’s 
“Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit will close early from now through Oct. 6 for scheduled renova-tions. The museum will also be closed all day Sept. 7 and Oct. 5. The 12-year-old exhibit is starting to look worn down because of Florida’s 
humidity, which allows mildew and rust to 
grow, said Paul Ramey, a museum spokesman. 
The latest visitors can enter is 3:30 p.m., 
and it closes at 4 p.m. Museum staff wanted to 
keep the exhibit open for the public while doing 
necessary renovations, which include sanding, pressure washing, repairing the stucco siding and painting.
The butterflies won’t be moved, he said. 
Over 200,000 people come to see them each year, he said.
“It’s the most popular exhibit at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History,” Ramey said. “Our 
hope is that it will be much more visually ap-
pealing.”
In January, the museum closed for routine 
fumigations, according to Alligator archives. 
Drew Willis, a UF industrial engineering 
freshman, said he’s glad the exhibit will remain open despite the necessary renovations. 
“The butterfly gardens allowed students to 
experience the beauty of nature despite the fact 
that they live on a very industrial-like campus,” 
the 18-year-old said.UF butterfly exhibit now closing earlyBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Suspected in a January shooting that left one man 
dead, a Gainesville man surrendered to police Monday 
morning at the Alachua County Jail.
Richard Demetric Mays, 31, was charged with first-
degree murder and tampering with evidence in con-nection with the death of 26-year-old Isadore Lee, of Gainesville, according to a statement issued Monday morning by the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office. Mays is currently being held in lieu of a $1 million bond.
On Jan. 11, deputies with the ACSO found two peo-
ple who had been shot in the Holly Heights area of East Gainesville, according to Alligator archives.
The deputy who arrived at the 
scene gave both victims first-aid care until an ambulance took them to the 
hospital, according to archives. 
Lee died at the hospital that night. 
The woman, Lakeya Steward, 28, was 
treated for a gunshot wound that was 
not believed to be life-threatening, according to archives. Authorities 
didn’t find the firearm used at the time or the shooter.
The incident began with an argument among a few 
people, and it ended when someone pulled out a gun and started to shoot, according to archives.
Detectives are still investigating, and additional ar-
rests may still be made, according to the ACSO state-
ment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgSuspect surrenders
DANCE IT
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
UF marketing senior Gabby Nissalke, 21, leads a group of students through warm-up exercises on Monday night in 
the basement of Broward Hall during UF Danza’s auditions. Gabby said that UF Danza is a “way to continue what we love to do. ”
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
It began with the honk of a horn. Then 
someone pulled out a pistol.
On Monday, Gainesville Police arrested 
a man and a woman in connection to a road-rage incident from earlier this month.
On Aug. 5, a motorist honked his horn 
at a black Chevy pickup after the truck’s driver cut him off in the 3400 block of SW Archer Road, according to a police report. 
The occupants of the truck — Roger Syl-
vester, 25, Jacob Sylvester, 30, and Kasey Mae Adkins, 26 — cursed at the motorist, according to the report.The motorist turned up his music and 
continued driving, passing the truck and 
continuing north on Southwest 34th Street. 
When the vehicles stopped next to each 
other at the intersection of Southwest 34th 
Street and West University Avenue, the trio 
continued to curse at the motorist, and one of them threw a beer through the motorist’s open window, according to the report.
When both drivers then pulled into a 
Chevron gas station nearby, Roger and Ja-
cob Sylvester left their vehicle and began to 
hit and push the motorist. Jacob put him in 
a choke hold, according to the report.
Adkins, who was still seated inside the 
car, then rushed from the vehicle, point-ing a black handgun at all 
three of them, according 
to the report. The three 
then returned to the truck, 
according to the report.
After the motorist 
snapped photos of the 
pickup’s license plate 
with his cellphone, Roger 
and Jacob Sylvester snatched the phone and drove away.
Police found the pickup shortly after 
with a loaded handgun in the front seat, according to the report.
GPD released surveillance camera foot-
age of the incident to the public.Authorities charged 
Roger Sylvester with rob-
bery by sudden snatching 
and battery. They charged 
Adkins with aggravated 
assault with a deadly 
weapon. Both were taken to Alachua County Jail, where they are being held 
without bond.
Authorities arrested Jacob Sylvester on 
Aug. 6, charging him with 
aggravated as-
sault, simple battery and robbery by sudden snatching, according to a police report.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgTwo more suspects arrested in armed road-rage incidentMays
Alligator File Photo
Through Oct. 6, the Florida Museum of Natural History’s “Butterfly Rainforest” exhibit will close at 4 p.m. for renovations.
Adkins
 Sylvester
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-23-16-17-1
Furnished 2BR/2BA in 4BR/4BA Countryside condo. Rent $400/rm/mo with 1st month FREE in year lease. Utilities, basic cable, and internet included. E-mail: countryside -
apt@gmail.com     8-23-16-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
3BR/2BA, MANY AMENITIES. $800/moSPARROW CONDOS. 15 min to UF by bus.Call 850-974-0686      8-25-16-5-2
2BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-22/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $500/
BR or $1800/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
8-31-16-8-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Female roommate for BR w/ pvt BA in house off SW ARcher Rd. $115/ wk + 1/2 utils. No children or pets. Please call for an interview 770-823-7099    8-26-4-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
Cabin Life in the Country: easy commute up 441 (Citra). 3BR/2.5BA, Modern 2-story, 2000+ sq ft log home, custom interior wood -
work. climate-controlled shop/garage/barn on 3+ acres w/ 2 carports & detached garage for cars-trucks-tractors-boats-toys. $245K Appt 352-317-8870.     8-23-16-3-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Brand new 2015 Vespa Sprint 150 scooter, Gator blue. Anti-lock brakes, storage area, sport design saddle, rectangular headlight. 60's style. Top speed: 59MPH. 117mpg. ONLY $4700 (original price $5900) Text 352-514-3963.    8-25-16-3-11
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. $2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-8-12
2014 YAMAHA 250CC MOTORCYCLE
Very low miles, white, great condition. $2800. Call 352-372-2815     8-26-16-6-12
2007 TOYOTA COROLLA
Great condition, 128K miles. White exterior. $6000/OBO. Call 352-275-9835    8-26-16-5-12
LOW MILE. Cherry of a car. 2006 Pontiac Grand prix GT, 67K miles.Prem options, Supchgr. White, w/ blk & tan Lthr, 1 owner, Maintianed, Must See to appreciate! $7K OBO. Call 352-332-6333. or 352-328-6934     8-26-16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
ARE YOU A SPORTS FAN? GET PAID
to promote a NEW LIVE Sports App
created by the makers of Madden
Football! GO TO:
www.letsplaysportsgames.com
8-24-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
WATER TREATMENT TECHNICIAN5 Years experience & clean driving record required. Salary + Benefits.Local family owned business for over 30years!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com     8-25-16-5-14
ADMIN/MARKETING ASSISTANTFast growing family business seeking full time professional. Salary commensurate with experience. Full benefits available.resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
EXPERIENCED  ADMIN. ASSISTANT
Part Time & Flexible Hours! Microsoft Office 
& Outlook required.  Join our team!
resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-
16-5-14Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted to 
work with elementary school children doing 
arts & crafts, sports, Dance and
much more in an after school program
at various schools.
Hours are
M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call Misty @
the EDEP office 955-7766
8-26-16-5-14
Earn While You Learn 
     TEXT Marketing      Immediate/monthly residual income 
     Hank: 352-283-3880
8-26-16-5-14
ACROSS
1 Opinion piece
6 Resident’s winter
expense
10 Formal
agreement
14 Apartment
agreement
15 Waist-measuring
unit
16 River through
Spain
17 Missouri’s largest
metropolis
19 Israel’s Barak
20 Costa __
21 Cooking-with-
garlic enticement
22 First leg of
racing’s TripleCrown
26 Prepare for the
gala
28 Signaled on
stage
29 “Sure, sure”
30 Sagan of
“Cosmos”
31 Place to relax34 1990 comedy
about a detectiveposing as a
teacher
39 Suffix with Japan
or Brooklyn
40 Water conduit
41 Greek war god42 Entertained with
a tune
43 Unfavorable
reputation
46 Oslo attraction
honoring
Heyerdahl’sexpedition
50 Run __ of the law51 Old Norse
explorer
52 Ball of smoke53 “Roots” hero from
Gambia
59 Mil. flying branch60 “Say that’s true ... ”61 Water from
France
62 Vietnamese
holidays
63 Haunted house
sound
64 Fix errors in, as
software
DOWN
1 Antlered grazer2 Aegean, for one3 __ Bernardino4 Braying beast
5 Longs (for)6 Minor setback7 Room-size
computerintroduced in1946
8 Perform on stage9 Biblical “your”
10 Looked intently11 Hate
12 Speck of bread
13 Start of the rest
of your life, so it’ssaid
18 In __: as found21 One-named
singer
22 New Hampshire
city
23 Founded: Abbr.24 1980s Chrysler
line
25 Mongolian tent26 What Brinker’s
boy plugged witha finger
27 Score-producing
MLB stats
30 Is able to31 “Get lost!”
32 Words from
Wordsworth
33 Church recess
35 Online message36 Corporal or
colonel
37 1958 Chevalier
musical
38 Half of Mork’s
sign-off
42 Fills with feathers,
as a pillow
43 Richard who
married Liz
Taylor ... twice
44 Cambodia’s
continent45 Knocked down46 Done for
47 Helpful
48 Jack Sprat’s diet
restriction
49 High-IQ group
53 Actress Novak
54 Sci-fi aircraft
55 “__ seen worse”
56 Penpoint57 Greek cross58 Subj. with writing
exercises
By Lila Cherry
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/23/1608/23/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 23, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
ANIMAL SCIENCE INTEREST?
----INTERN WANTEDGAIN EXOTIC ANIMAL EXPERIENCECONTACT GAINESVILLE RABBIT RESCUEEmail betsyday@ufl.edu for information     8-26-16-5-14
After School staff needed! Now hiring PT counselors and drivers with a Class A, B or C license! Patience, initiative and a desire to positively impact girls is required! Visit GirlsPlace.net for details!    8-26-16-4-14
Monopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14Babysitter wanted, afternoons/evenings, $12/hr for kids age 7-13. Help drive kids from school/to activities, light housekeeping (dish-es, laundry, feed meals), play with 7 yr old, help with homework. Babysitting experience and car required, must be reliable. Email re-sume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    8-25-16-3-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu.    10-4-30-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Highland Lawn Maintenance
Is your yard in need of help? We provide 
quality lawn service that you can afford. We 
offer one time clean-ups as well as monthly 
service. Give us a call @ 352-514-5973.    
8-29-16-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        8-29-16-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
National ATM’s is hiring workers to assist with ATM sales & marketing. Great for Student, flex hrs. Outgoing personality a+! Support & Training assistance. Commission $50.-$100. per location. Call 352-363-8373 or email re-sume to info@nationaleventatms.com    8-29-16-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Jordan named SEC Offensive Player of the Week
Florida soccer player Savannah Jordan was named the Southeastern 
Conference Offensive Player of the Week, the league announced Monday. 
Jordan scored in both of UF's season-opening victories.Caeleb Dressel and several 
other current and former Gators saw success at the Rio Olympics.Turn to pg. 16.TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
There’s meaning behind each of the tat-
toos that paint CeCe Jefferson’s right arm, 
and to begin to understand him, you need to 
understand them. 
There’s the number 352 — Jefferson's 
area code — needled onto his arm, which he got to show he hasn’t forgotten his roots. 
There’s #UF19 embroidered on his hand. 
He got that one to show the loyalty he has 
to his school. 
There’s a large eyeball tattooed on his 
bicep that only shows when he ﬂ  exes. He 
got that one because he “thought that was 
cool.”
And then there’s the three tattoos that 
make up the majority of the artwork, all on his forearm. First is a clock. Next are two 
wolves, one large and one small. And then, tying them together, is a name — Luke. 
His full name is Luke Deon Jefferson, Ce-Ce’s son who was born just over a year ago 
on Aug. 11, 2015, at the time shown on the 
clock. Jefferson remembers having to leave 
Fall camp early on Aug. 10 to speed to the 
hospital. 
He got his ﬁ  rst glimpse of Luke the next 
day in the delivery room. 
“Damn, he looks just like me,’” Jefferson 
remembers thinking. 
More than a year later, Luke still lives 
with Jefferson’s girlfriend in his original home of Baker County, just over an hour 
north of Gainesville. She brings him to visit 
several times a week, or CeCe drives back to 
the two of them. 
And while many college students try to 
avoid raising a child while they’re still in 
school, Jefferson has embraced it. To him, 
Luke is a blessing, a teacher and a motivator 
in one two-foot-tall package. 
“It’s not difﬁ  cult at all, man,” he said. 
“It’s not difﬁ  cult at all.”
That’s partly because of Luke's grandpar-
ents, who provide some ﬁ  nancial assistance. But Jefferson knows that won’t last forever, 
and that’s what fuels him. 
It fuels him when he has to get up for Defensive lineman balances 
football with fatherhoodFEARSOME MCPHERSON
Last season, Jalen Tabor 
cast shadows over opposing 
wide receivers.
He blanketed them from 
their quarterbacks, making them invisible in the pass-ing game.
He deceived quarter-
backs with his coverage skills and budded into a top cornerback as he faced stiff competition in the Southeastern Confer-
ence on a week-to-week basis. 
But like those receivers he faced, Ta-
bor too had a shadow cast upon him last 
year by teammate and All-American Ver-
non Hargreaves.
Even though Tabor had the statis-
tically better season — 18 defended 
passes and two pick-sixes compared to Hargreaves’ respective eight and zero — 
his mentor took in the limelight en route 
to unanimous All-America honors before darting to the NFL.
Now that Tabor is poised to take on 
Hargreaves’ position as the Gators’ lead cornerback and anchor a secondary that last season ﬁ  nished 13th na-tionally in average passing yards allowed (182.1), let’s not forget about — or un-derestimate — the man who 
will be playing alongside 
him in Quincy Wilson, who will likely have a shadow cast on him this season.
A junior who has made 
his share of plays over his ﬁ  rst two seasons while ro-
tating at the outside corner positions, Wilson has the potential to play at the 
same level — if not better — than Tabor 
this season.
“I think at times Quincy did get over-
looked,” defensive coordinator Geoff 
Collins said, “but he’s such a competi-
tive kid. He’s a good kid. He every day works on his craft and wants to make a name for himself.”
In 26 career games (11 starts) with 
the Gators, Wilson has proved himself on multiple occasions.
He has 51 career tackles and has de-Tabor isn't only corner 
to fear on UF's defenseHis son was born about a year agoColumn: As Jalen Tabor rises 
to stardom, don’t underesti-mate Quincy Wilson
Alligator File Photo
Quincy Wilson (6) tries to pick off a pass from Georgia quarterback Faton 
Bauta (10) during UF's 27-3 win over the Bulldogs on Oct. 31. 
SEE JEFFERSON,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15GATORS IN THE NFL
HE WAS TAMPA BAY'S FIRST-
ROUND SELECTION IN 
THE 2016 NFL DRAFT.
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
The NFL preseason is back in session, 
which means it's time for four weeks of al-
most-football: the grace period for rookies to 
get their feet wet and veterans to get back in 
form for Week 1. Halfway through the pre-season, let’s take a look at how Florida’s for-mer Gators are competing at the next level.
RookiesVernon Hargreaves snagged the spotlight 
on Saturday with two acrobatic interceptions. 
The former Florida cornerback picked off 
Jacksonville’s Chad Henne twice on back-to-back drives in Tampa Bay’s 27-21 win over the Jaguars.
Hargreaves’ ﬁ  rst interception was returned for 28 yards late in the second quarter. On the Jaguars' ﬁ  rst drive of the second half, Hargreaves was at it again, leaping in front 
of Jacksonville receiver Bryan Walters for a 
second interception. 
“The game’s about the ball. That’s the 
money,” Hargreaves said after the 27-21 win. 
“Everything’s about the ball. So I try to ﬁ  nd 
a way to stay close to it and get my hands on it.”
Former UF running back Kelvin Taylor 
also made a solid impression over the week-
end. After just two carries in the preseason 
opener, the 49ers’ new halfback took the lead Saturday. 
Taylor had more yards and carries than 
anyone in San Francisco’s 31-24 win over Denver. 
His 10 carries for 47 yards included a 24-
yard dash in the fourth quarter. 
As for the receiving corps, rookie Demar-
cus Robinson caught his ﬁ  rst NFL pass on Hargreaves hauls in two inter ceptions
SEE GINFL,  PAGE 15
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126“I now see what parents are talking about. 
Life is bigger than you, man.”
CeCe Jefferson
Florida defensive linemanTUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Alligator File Photo
CeCe Jefferson (96) poses with teammates following Florida's 27-3 win over Georgia on Oct. 31 in 
Jacksonville. 
Column: As Jalen Tabor rises 
to stardom, don’t underesti-mate Quincy Wilson
5:30 a.m. workouts for Florida's 
football team. Nobody — includ -
ing Jefferson — generally looks forward to them. But now, he 
doesn’t have a problem. 
“I just think about my son, 
and that makes me get up and go 
out,” he said. 
“Because that’s something I 
have to do.”
Luke has also forced Jefferson 
to develop a parent’s reactions. 
According to him, becoming 
a parent is like learning to drive a car. After a while, you can in
-
stinctively react to certain situa -
tions quickly. 
The other day, for example, 
Jefferson said a UF training staff member placed a child on 
a small ledge near the team’s 
locker room. 
He bolted — for a fraction of a 
second — to make sure the child didn’t fall before realizing there 
was no danger. 
“I now see what parents are 
talking about,” he said. “Life is bigger than you, 
man.”
To illustrate that point, Jef
-
ferson said back in high school 
he was more concerned about 
himself than anything. Now he 
doesn’t have that luxury, and 
that’s fine with him. 
Because while the bus ride 
to The Swamp on game day is 
something that ends with signing autographs, high-fiving and pos
-
ing for pictures with fans — all things that Jefferson embraces 
— the destination falls short of 
another one. 
It’s at the end of a long route: 
From Gainesville, he drives about 
an hour north to Baker County. 
But what lies at the end justi
-
fies the trip. 
It’s the smaller wolf from 
his tattoo, waiting for him in a 
1-year-old-sized No. 96 jersey. 
“What I do now, that’s gonna 
affect his life,” Jefferson said.
 “So that actually makes it 
easier for me.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgJEFFERSON,  from pg 14Jefferson's son has his 
own No. 96 Gators' jersey fended 11 passes. 
Wilson played a major role in 
limiting Rebels receiver Laquon 
Treadwell to just five catches and 
42 receiving yards during Florida’s 38-10 upset over then-No. 3 Ole Miss last season — a game remem-
bered more for UF’s offensive out-
bursts than defensive dominance. 
He had the game-sealing inter-
ception against South Carolina, picking off Perry Orth with 1:20 to 
play.
And with his length and athletic 
range, he should fit just right in 
new defensive backs coach Torrian 
Gray’s scheme.
“Quincy is going to be an inte-
gral part,” Gray said in the spring. 
“... Just seeing his upside when he is full speed, he is healthy and 
confident, I am really excited to see 
when he knows he is going to be the guy this year.”
With Tabor suspended for the 
season opener following a viola-tion of team rules during a practice, Wilson has a golden opportunity to show that he can be the top cor-ner. He can show that his success 
strings from his skills, not the fact 
that his teammate is covering the opponent’s top playmaker.
“We are expecting big things 
from him,” Collins said. “Just do what he does.”
If he does that, he might not 
be the Florida corner living in the 
shadows this season.
Jordan McPherson is a sports 
writer. You can contact him at jm-
cpherson@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @jmcpherson_1126.COLUMN,  from pg 14
Saturday. Chiefs’ quarterback Nick Foles de-livered the 15-yard strike over the middle to Robinson halfway through the third quarter. 
Veterans
The Vikings, Bengals and Redskins are also dusting off some seasoned Gators vets 
in preparation for the regular season.
Veteran defensive end Justin Trattou al-
ready has 2.5 sacks through two weeks, sec-
ond most in the preseason.  
Meanwhile, fellow Vikings lineman Shar-
rif Floyd has yet to play in the preseason 
because of a knee injury, according to CBS 
Sports. Bengals' defensive end Carlos Dunlap has 
a sack and a forced fumble to his name so 
far this preseason. Last year Dunlap finished fourth in the league with 13.5 sacks. 
In Washington, Matt Jones — who is en-
tering his second season in the NFL — looked to play a significant role in the Redskins’ ground game after he totaled seven carries 
for a game-high 31 yards in the Redskins’ 
22-18 win over the Jets on Friday. But, ac-cording to the Washington Post, Jones will miss the remainder of the preseason after he suffered a shoulder injury later in the game.
Jones’ teammate, star tight end Jordan 
Reed, has missed both preseason games so far with a sprained thumb, according to CBS Sports, but may get some reps in Friday’s 
matchup with Buffalo.
No luck for Neal
Two Gators were also on the wrong end of 
preseason news this week. 
Rookie safety Keanu Neal, a first-round 
pick of the Atlanta Falcons, was roasted on Twitter for letting Cleveland tight end Gary Barnidge score on a 29-yard pass from Rob-
ert Griffin III. Fans lambasted Neal for slip-
ping on the play, tweeting glasses emojis and saying Neal’s first endorsement should be for petroleum jelly. The Falcons came from be-hind to beat Cleveland 24-13. 
Dante Fowler Jr. was asked to leave a 
joint practice between the Jaguars and Buc-caneers on Thursday because of a skirmish between the Jacksonville defensive end and 
Tampa Bay guard Ali Marpet, according to 
the Tampa Bay Times. Fowler will look to make up for the rookie season he missed last year after tearing his ACL in training camp. 
@mattb_727
mbrannon@alligator.org GINFL,  from pg 14Former Gator Keanu Neal faced Twitter backlash
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Former Florida football players Dante Fowler (left) and Vernon Hargreaves (right) pose 
for a picture after exchanging jerseys following an NFL preseason game on Saturday. Hargreaves is a rookie for the T ampa Bay Buccaneers while Fowler is entering his second year with the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016
“TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF.”
Prepare yourself for work after college by building 
your resume and gaining valuable work experience with the nation’s largest student-run newspaper.
OPEN HOUSE
Fri., Aug. 26, from 2 to 5 p.m.
THE ALLIGATOR IS LOOKING TO FILL THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS:
Photo Editor, Assistant Photo Editor, Avenue Editor, 
Opinions Editor, Photographers, University Editor, 
Freelance Editor, Staff Writers, Copy Desk Chiefs, Copy Editors, Sports Writers, Sports Copy Editors, Content Contributors and Ad Designers. 
Interviews will be held on-site. Please bring your 
resume, clips and portfolio if you have them. 
THE ALLIGATOR HAS MOVED
Visit us at either location!
MAIN OFFICE:
2700 SW 13th StreetCAMPUS:
Weimer G207
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Caeleb Dressel competes during a men’s 
4x100 meter medley relay heat during the swimming competitions at the 2016 Summer Olympics.THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
United States’ and former Florida athlete Kelly Murphy celebrates during a women’s semiﬁ  nal volleyball match against Serbia.
• Arman Hall (track) - 
Gold (4x400 meter relay)
• Caeleb Dressel (swimming) - 
Gold (4x100 meter freestyle 
relay), Gold (4x100 medley relay)
• Christian T aylor  (track) - 
Gold (triple Jump)
• Conor Dwyer  (swimming) - 
Gold (4x200 meter freestyle relay), Bronze  (200 meter 
freestyle)
• Christian T aylor (track) - 
Gold (triple jump)
• Dan Wallace  (swimming) - 
Silver  (4x200 meter free-
style relay)• Kelly Murphy (volleyball) - Bronze  (women’s tourna-
ment)
• Kerron Clement (track) - 
Gold (400 meter hurdles)
• Novlene Williams-Mills (track) - Silver (4x400 meter 
relay)
• Ryan Lochte (swimming) - 
Gold (4x200 meter freestyle relay)
• T ony McQuay (track) - Gold (4x400 meter relay)
• Will Claye (track) - Silver (triple jump)GATORS AT THE OLYMPICS