We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 43 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
McElwain discusses oﬀ  ense’s 
problems
He called it “very average,” pg. 14
Bear Hands to bring electronic jams
Read our preview for the High Dive concert, pg. 9
Your Gainesville guide for fall
Pumpkin patches, trick-or-treating and more, pg. 10Predictions for this year’s top Halloween costumes
They’ll feature gorilla masks and red vests, pg. 8
By Molly Donovan 
and Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writers
Hours before the ﬁ  nal presiden-
tial debate began, Gainesville resi-
dent Kyle Young made his stance known, painting “Trump is Revolu-tion” and “Hillary for Prison” on the 
grafﬁ  ti-ﬁ  lled 34th Street Wall.
The 30-year-old, who doesn’t 
identify with a major party, said he 
will vote for Republican candidate Donald Trump come Election Day because he thinks the millionaire real-estate mogul is a better choice than Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate.
As he painted the wall over the 
course of several hours, he said his children — ages 6 and 2 — came to 
mind.
“I want America for them, be-
cause I think it’s gone,” he said.
During the debate, held in Las 
Vegas, Trump and Clinton spoke about their visions for the country. 
They argued about Supreme 
Court nominations, abortion and 
immigration, as well as both can-didates’ recent scandals, including the hacking of Clinton’s campaign manager’s emails and allegations of sexual abuse against Trump.
At The Swamp Restaurant on 
West University Avenue, Trump 
supporters watched the debate on 
two TVs, squeezing about 70 people on the upper balcony.
The UF College Republicans orga-
nization hosted the watch party and were joined by Turning Point USA at UF, a nonpartisan activist organiza-
tion. Trump supporters boasted T-
shirts, buttons, hats and stickers and handed out koozies bearing Trump’s name and his slogan, “Make Ameri-ca Great Again.”
Kevin Lemos, a UF computer 
engineering freshman, said he sup-ports Trump because he’s an ultra-conservative who understands the 
importance of Supreme Court justice 
selections.
“There’s a lot of justices that are, 
like, a thousand years old, and they aren’t always going to be around,” the 19-year-old said. As Clinton responded to the ﬁ  rst 
question of the debate regarding Supreme Court picks — she favors those who are pro-choice and pro-gun-control — Lemos shook his head, his lips pursed.
“She’s literally listing point by 
point why I’m voting for Trump,” he said.
At the Regal Gainesville Cinema 
Stadium 14, located at 3101 SW 35th Blvd., about 40 people settled into reclining chairs to watch the candi-dates on the big screen.
Lori Sandholdt, a 53-year-old 
‘Nasty woman’ and ‘puppet’: Clinton, Trump clash in  ﬁ  nal debate
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Democratic vice presidential candi-
date Tim Kaine will hold a campaign 
rally in Alachua County on Sunday af-ternoon.
As of press time, event details, 
including the exact time and loca-tion, have not yet been determined, according to hillaryclinton.com, the Democratic presidential candidate’s campaign website. Those interested in attending the rally can RSVP on the website.
Jake Best, the president of Gators 
4 Hillary, said he expects the Virginia senator to encourage residents to vote, a convenient topic because early voting in Florida begins Monday.
“I’m sure it’s not a coincidence that 
he’s coming Sunday, a day before early voting,” Best said.
Best said he saw the announcement 
on Twitter on Wednesday afternoon after leaving his French class. He then texted Mahen Gunaratna, Florida’s Hill-ary for America communications direc-tor, to conﬁ  rm the rally would happen.
“I was very excited,” the 19-year-old 
UF journalism sophomore said. “I was hoping that we’d get someone to come to Gainesville for a rally.”
On Friday, U.S. Rep. Debbie Was-
serman-Schultz, D-Fla., will also be in Gainesville as she hosts a volunteer training session at Gainesville Police headquarters, located at 545 NW Eighth Ave., according to Clinton’s website.
Andrea Miranda, the secretary of 
UF College Democrats, said she’ll be shortening a trip to her family’s home in Orlando to see Kaine speak. The UF political science senior said she hopes to bring her 16-year-old sister with her.
Miranda said she wants to learn 
more about Kaine as a person, noting that since Clinton named him as her vice presidential pick, it was revealed that Kaine speaks Spanish and plays harmonica.
“I just want to hear more about 
him,” she said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org 
 Tim Kaine to hold rally in Alachua County this weekendSEE DEBATE,  PAGE 4The election is in 18 days
Kaine
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Carlos Perez, a 21-year-old UF landscape architecture junior, draws a caricature of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump while he watches the end of the debate on Wednesday evening at the Hippodrome State Theatre.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Dozens of people watch the end of the ﬁ  nal presidential debate between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump at the Hippodrome State Theatre on Wednesday evening.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Author to discuss Mobile 
Memorials as evidence of a 
shift in grieving practices
Professor Candi Cann from Baylor University is giving a free lecture today at 5:30 p.m. 
in Smathers Library, Room 100. 
In this lecture, Cann will show 
how the marginalization of grief in contemporary American cul-
ture has made portable forms 
of public mourning more wide-spread. These include memorial tattoos, car decals and social-media shrines honoring the dead. This event is the third in an eight-part speaker series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars and filmmakers explore unique cultural and historical confron-tations with death. For more information, visit humanities.ufl.edu.
GatorNights Fall Festival
GatorNights is bringing in au-tumn vibes with a Fall Festival from 8 p.m. to midnight Friday. Get lost at the North Lawn in an inflatable maze or bring the fall spirit to UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital by painting a pumpkin. Enjoy a seasonal treat like apple dessert nachos, grab a mini pumpkin pie or sip a warm pumpkin spice coffee at the Global Coffee House. Get your home ready for fall by dec-orating your own mason jar vas-es. Laugh the night away from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. with comedian Ryan O’Flanagan. Also, be sure to bring a friend and catch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of “Sausage Party” in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Midnight Munchies this week will be na-chos and tacos. GatorNights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest.
Building the Britto Brand
As an art consultant and a lead-er of special commissions for Britto Central, Tammy Kleinman is an expert in all aspects of art-ist Romero Britto. With more than 20 years in the art world, she has helped put the Brazilian artist’s work in more than just art galleries: She has helped build him into a brand. Watch Kleinman's presentation about learning the business of art and the keys to building your own brand today at 5 p.m. in the 
University Gallery. The presen-
tation is free and open to the 
public. For more information, 
please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Enjoy local brews and live mu-
sic at the Florida Museum
Come help bring science to life 
for students at Drink with the Extinct. Sip brews in the shad-
ow of the mammoth, sample 
local fare beside the mastodon 
and enjoy live music today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Florida Museum of Natural History. 
Proceeds will benefit the muse-
um’s Junior Volunteer Program. 
Participants must be 21 or older. Tickets are $30 for non-museum members and $25 for museum 
members. For more informa-
tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calen-
dar/grid/drink-extinct or call 352-273-2047.
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival will take place Oct. 29 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Oct. 30 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be food, entertainment and more than 200 vendors sell-ing arts and crafts. On Oct. 29, there will be an auction of do-nated items from vendors from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. For more in-formation, email micafest@micanopyfallfestival.org or call 352-466-7026.
Reitz Union Game Room table 
tennis tournamentWith over 40 million competi-tive players around the globe, table tennis has the greatest number of participants of any sport. If you want to see how you stack up, you can try your hand at winning a real tourna-ment in the Reitz Union Game Room. The table tennis tour-nament is happening Saturday at 12:30 p.m. The Game Room will be hosting singles matches for both men’s and women’s brackets for a $5 entry fee per participant. Please note only UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card will be allowed to enter. The winner will be determined in a best-of-three, double-elim-ination, 11-point game. Register with the Game Room by 5 p.m Friday. Stop by for more infor-mation or see the Facebook event page at bit.ly/2e8GWjm.'What do we talk about 
when we talk about Toxic Masculinity?'
This is referring to the worst 
parts of society’s prevailing 
definition of what makes a man 
and the gender expression that follows. On Oct. 28, there will 
be a facilitated dialogue on toxic 
masculinity, its root causes and 
how it manifests in our every-
day lives. Participants, iden-tifying as masculine and non-
masculine alike, will be able 
to share their experiences and 
share how toxic masculinity has played a part in their lives. Participants will analyze current 
events under this framing and 
reflect on experiences as they at-
tempt to deconstruct masculini-ty. There will be complimentary  Einstein Bros. Bagels food. It is 
located in the Rainbow Suite in 
the Multicultural and Diversity 
Affairs Suite on the second floor of the Reitz Union.
Corrections
Keith Perry is a state represen-tative. The Alligator reported otherwise in a story pub-lished Oct. 19 under the head-line "Accent to host Florida Senate candidates for debate." 
Terry Fleming is the co-presi-
dent of the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. The Alligator reported other-wise in a story published Oct. 19 under the headline "Gainesville ranks sixth in LGBTQ+ inclu-sivity in Florida." Also, the term gender-identity transitions was incorrectly used.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  85° LOW  62°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 43
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
FRIENDS DON’T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
DO WHATEVER IT TAKES.THE ADVOCACY GROUP IS 
ASKING FOR FEE RELIEFS 
AND SALARY RAISES.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Graduate Assistants United and 
UF ofﬁ  cials are continuing a year-
long battle over wage increases.
The group, which advocates for 
graduate assistants, met Wednes-day morning with UF negotiators to try to settle an agreement on raises and fee reliefs for UF gradu-ate assistants after months of bar-
gaining. 
By the end of the meeting, the 
two sides could not come to an 
agreement. John Hames, the chief bargainer for GAU, said he’s hop-
ing for a consensus soon. 
“We are not convinced that the 
university cannot give the same 
or more in dollar amount in raises to GAs as it did last year,” he said.
The group brought its fourth 
proposal of the year to Bill Con-nellan, the chief bargainer for UF, who brought his own proposal but didn’t put it on the table. 
During the meeting, the group 
asked for a $320 raise and a $100 fee relief for graduate assistants. The group also asked for a mini-mum stipend of $15,000 for half-
time graduate assistants.
Previously, both parties ver-
bally agreed to the stipend raise, 
but nothing will be ofﬁ  cial until the documents, which are due 
Nov. 10, are signed.
Hames said his group has been 
negotiating closer with UF’s of-fers, but UF won’t agree to their 
terms. 
Connellan said he appreciated 
Hames’ proposal, but he said GAU wants the university to offer more than it can.
“I’m going to have to spend 
some more time talking about op-
tions for us and reschedule,” Con-
nellan said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org   GAU, UF continue to disagree over raises for graduate students
DURING THE MEETING, 
GRADUATE 
ASSISTANTS UNITED 
ASKED FOR:
• A $320 raise 
• A $15,000 minimum 
stipend for half-time employees 
• A $100 fee relief4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
THE UF BOLL YWOOD DANCE 
GROUP WAS COMPARED 
TO AN ‘INVASIVE SPECIES’ 
TWO WEEKS AGO.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two weeks after a UF competitive Bol-
lywood dance group was confronted with 
racial slurs, UF students want to show their support. 
Praveen Varanasi, a former senator in 
the Student Senate, said he’s sponsoring a Student Government resolution, authored by three Impact Party senators, responding to the incident. The resolution needs to be approved by SG committees before it can reach the Senate.
“The resolution is the Student Senate’s 
way to say they stand in solidarity with the dance team Gator Adaa,” he said.
On Tuesday, the Asian American Stu-
dent Union posted a letter of support on 
its Facebook page condemning the incident 
in which two men mocked the Gator Adaa dance group and compared them to an “in-
vasive species.” The group, made up of 13 
women, was practicing for a competition 
outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Oct. 4 
when the encounter occurred, according to Alligator archives. 
In the letter, AASU stated “this inexcus-
able act of bias reminds us of the impor-
tance of education and advocacy for (Asian 
and Paciﬁ  c Islander American) issues on a 
collegiate level and beyond.”
Kevin Doan, the president of AASU and 
the letter’s co-author, said if a similar event 
happened again, he would respond quick-
er. He had a draft prepared six days after 
the incident but spent time revising it. 
“For us, we felt that even though we are a little over two weeks past the point, it’s 
still an important discussion,” Doan said.
Doan said he wanted to support the 
South Asian community, a group that isn’t 
often considered part of the APIA commu-nity.
“Our goal is to try to strive for advocat-
ing for all Asian-American identities,” he 
said. “It’s just unfortunate that acts like 
this happen on campus. It’s reality, but it’s up to us in how we respond.”
Varanasi, the president of Indian Stu-
dent Association, said he appreciated the 
letter regardless of when it was posted. 
“I don’t think there’s necessarily a time 
limit on it,” he said. “They’ve always been very supportive, and I appreciate their sup-
port.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  Students show support for Gator dance team
Gainesville resident, came to the theater with her two 
children, excited to watch Clinton defend her vision.
Sandholdt, who voted for Clinton in the 2008 demo-
cratic primaries against now-President Barack Obama, said she’s conﬁ  dent Clinton would make a better presi-
dent than Trump, citing the candidate’s decades of 
political experience and inclusive ideals. She said the unusual presidential race — one that’s more informal than most — has been entertaining thus far.
“I think it’s been very interesting to watch how the 
American public has approached this election and how 
the candidates have responded to the public’s support 
or lack of support,” Sandholdt said.
On the corner of Northwest Sixth Street and North-
west 23rd Avenue, a gloomier message greeted mo-torists on a sign stationed outside a National Vacuum store.
“Roses are red/Violets are blue/Your candidate 
sucks/And mine does, too,” it read.
Alligator staff photographer Grace King contributed 
to this report.DEBATE,  from pg. 1It was the last debateTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
THE GROUP WALKED TO BRING 
ATTENTION TO RAPE CULTURE.
By Ralph Duvers
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Tiffany Nelson, 19, spent Wednesday af-
ternoon carrying a sign reading “My little 
black dress does not mean yes” as she walked 
on the Plaza of the Americas. 
“It’s a great way to show the people at UF 
that we do care, we do want to say something 
about it and that it’s not their fault,” the UF 
biochemistry sophomore said.
The UF chapter of HeForShe rallied for its 
third annual “Dress Does Not Mean Yes” walk from the Plaza of the Americas to Turlington 
Plaza to raise awareness about rape culture.
“Consent is hot; assault is not,” they chant-
ed as they walked through campus. 
Students stopped and watched the crowd, and a few joined the group.  
Lillian Rozsa, who started the organization 
last Fall, said the walk helps start a discussion 
about sexual assault.
“It’s really damaging that in today’s society 
we still ask what the survivor was wearing or 
if they were drinking,” the 20-year-old UF po-litical science junior said.
For Nelson, the event hit close to home. 
She said she wanted to show support for a 
friend who was sexually assaulted over the 
summer. 
“She’s a strong girl,” she said, adding that 
the walk was a way for Nelson to stand by 
her.
Renae Burke, 18, said attending the event 
was a no-brainer.  
“Raising awareness for (sexual assault) is 
something that I will dedicate my time to in a heartbeat,” the UF music and biomedical en-
gineering freshman said.  HeForShe UF hosts annual walk   
ABOUT 200 PEOPLE SHOWED 
UP TO MARCH WITH LAW 
ENFORCEMENT.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
For an hour and a half Wednesday, Univer-
sity Avenue was blocked by police cars as a 
rally of citizens, law enforcement, children and students walked down the street, chanting for peace.
About 200 people showed up for the fourth-
annual Unity in Community March and Rally for Peace with the goal of uniting the city for equality and peacebuilding, said Heart Phoe-nix, the board president of the River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding, which organized the march.
“This isn’t a protest,” she said. “This isn’t 
about what we don’t have; this is about what 
we do have.”The march started at the Hippodrome State 
Theatre and ended at the Union Street Farm-
ers Market on Bo Diddley Community Plaza. Up and down the street, 8-year-old Dazzlynn James and other kids led the march, singing chants into microphones and waving signs 
promoting peace. Her youth tennis program, 
Aces in Motion, has been practicing all year for the march.
“We should try to keep our community safe 
and try to have peace within the community and away from trouble,” James said.
At the end of the march, attendees broke 
into a spontaneous ﬂ  ash-mob dance.
In the middle of the mob, Alachua County 
Sheriff Sadie Darnell danced along with the residents, adults and children alike. She said it felt great to see the children having fun while also taking responsibility for their community.
“Especially when today there’s so much 
toxicity, it’s important for children to be re-minded that behind the badge we’re people also,” Darnell said.Unity march has high turnoutThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORThe awe-inspiring 
impact of 
accidental science
In history, there have been scientific discoveries responsible 
for the general well-being of the human race. Moreover, many of those discoveries were found by accident. In 1928, Scottish biologist Alexander Fleming was doing work trying to rid the world of the super inconvenient staph infection. 
When he left his dirty dishes out over the weekend in his labo-ratory, an unfamiliar fungus covered them. That fungus, Flem-ing learned, killed all surrounding bacteria. Thus, penicillin was discovered, or invented, forever changing the world of medi-cine. If that doesn’t convince you that some of the most amaz-ing scientific projects succeeded by accident, the fact that Viagra was originally created to combat minor chest pains should.
Now, in 2016, the cycle of accidental occurrences, crucial 
to our human species, continues. Just this week, scientists at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee stumbled upon a chemical reaction that efficiently converts carbon dioxide into ethanol. This technology, dear reader, could be ground-breaking in the battle against human-caused climate change. By the way, 97 percent of scientists agree climate change is a legitimate threat and not just a conspiracy invented by the Chinese to impede American businesses, as one of our presi-dential candidates would have you believe.
The amazing things we can do with this newfound knowl-
edge, however, are not a joke. For science’s sake, this dis-covery allows us to turn wasted carbon dioxide into ethanol. Ethanol in the right scale, mind you, can be used to power vehicles, generators, homes, offices, etc.
Even more miraculously, the process to convert carbon di-
oxide into ethanol requires very little energy. The machines that underwent this process in the first place can be started and stopped at room temperature, resulting in little energy use and little energy cost.
We all know there is no such thing as perfect in enterprises 
like this. There still needs to be a process by which the carbon dioxide hanging about in the atmosphere can be harvested. We also need to find a way to harvest carbon dioxide as it is emitted by various energy-using machines.
Regardless, the power of human accident is a pretty miracu-
lous thing. The power of accidents in general is awe-inspiring. There’s a large scientific consensus that argues the formation of the universe was an accident. The fact that life could oc-cur at all is an even bigger accident, let alone intelligent life capable of discovering technology that could save humanity from the plague it created in the first place.
Seriously, this technology could be the type of thing we 
teach children in textbooks in the not-so-distant future. It’s building on a larger canon of Bob Ross-style “happy little acci-dents.” It could very well be a fundamental pillar in the battle against climate change. 
Whereas climate change reduces resources available to us, 
which in turn causes political relationships to be strained — when nations bicker over resources, bad things usually hap-pen to perfectly innocent civilians in the crossfire — this dis-covery might even carry political weight that could help us outside the realm of just climate change.
Guest Column
In defense of Krishna: a chaplain’s response
Those who serve Krishna Lunch are 
volunteers. So are most who write for the Alligator. You don’t expect gowns 
and tuxedos on your Krishna Lunch 
servers, and you don’t expect Pulitzer-
quality columns in the Alligator. Still, one can only marvel at the stunningly superficial and 
ignorant remarks about Hare Krishnas pub-
lished in this space a few days ago.
The author researched Hare Krishna by 
interviewing precisely one student of Indian descent. Period. This student’s anti-Hare-Krishna views were 
presented as “facts.” How hard can it be to visit krish-
na.com, talk to a religious studies professor or seek a Krishna practitioner’s view?
Please allow me to set the record straight.
Hinduism is diverse. Some say there are a billion 
Hindus and a billion forms of Hinduism. However, one 
thing all Hindus agree upon is the wisdom of the Bhaga-vad-Gita — Hinduism’s most concise and foundational text. How could this article about Hinduism fail to men-
tion the Bhagavad-Gita?
The Bhagavad-Gita teaches that designations such as 
Hindu, Muslim, Christian or Jew are as superficial as 
white, black, male, female, tall or short. Each of us is 
an eternal spirit, temporarily inhabiting a certain body 
as a driver occupies a car. 
Whether you’re driving a jalopy or a Jaguar, you, the 
driver, are the important part of the car-and-driver duo. Understanding this simple point lifts one above racism, 
sexism and religious discrimination.
Despite this teaching, some people — including the 
interviewee — claim only those born Hindu can be Hin-
du. This caste-conscious view has created long-standing 
social problems in India, comparable to racism and Jim 
Crow laws in America.
By contrast, the Bhagavad-Gita teaches one to see others as spirit, not flesh, treating everyone with equal kindness and respect. Krishna people aspire to practice this sublime philoso-
phy and share it with any interested person 
— black, white or brown.
The Hare Krishna movement, founded 50 
years ago by Swami Bhaktivedanta, has pub-
lished his “Bhagavad-Gita As It Is” in 100 lan-
guages. This edition, widely considered the most authoritative, has touched countless Af-
rican, Asian and European hearts. 
Unlike the interviewee, most Hindus, including In-
dian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, are quite proud of Swami Bhaktive-danta’s unprecedented contribution.
Hare Krishna is hugely popular with the Indian dias-
pora. Dozens of Indian-born UF students have finished their degrees while living at the nearby Krishna House ashram located at 214 NW 14th St. Hundreds of Indi-an Gators attend weekly Bhagavad-Gita classes there. Thousands of local Hindus attend spiritual festivals at 
the beautiful Alachua Krishna temple. Millions attend 
Hare Krishna temples across India and worldwide.
To the author and the Alligator: Do the unsubstanti-
ated, ill-informed and racist views of one student entitle 
you to irresponsibly conclude that Hare Krishnas are 
“twisting Hinduism” with “cultural imperialism”?
Far from “misappropriating Hinduism,” Hare Krish-
nas espouse the best of Hinduism and all religious tra-ditions: kindness, respect, tolerance and service. Don’t 
take my word for it; do what the Alligator columnist 
failed to do. Read “Bhagavad-Gita As It Is.” Visit Krish-na House. Talk to one of the joyful, simply dressed but honest singers and servers at Krishna Lunch.
Carl Woodham is the Hare Krishna chaplain at UF 
and the author of “Bhagavad-Gita: The Song Divine” and “A God Who Dances.”Carl Woodham
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As a student and faculty member, 
I have had offers to study and 
work at several highly ranked 
institutes of technology.  
However, I declined those op-
portunities for one simple reason: I have 
always wanted to study and work at uni-
versities where the arts and humanities 
are as important as science and engi-
neering. 
Although my area of expertise is en-
gineering, I’ve never wanted to be in a 
university with only engineers.
Last Thursday, my wife, Linda, and I 
spent the evening in UF’s College of the 
Arts.  
We joined others in the Gary R. Libby 
Gallery in a discussion with public artist 
Tony Stallard about his installation “Al-
pha” and his collaboration with profes-sor Nicole Horenstein in the UF Depart-ment of Chemistry.  
Stallard shared photographs and 
sketches of “Fullerene,” his magniﬁ  cent 
public art sculpture of stainless steel and light to be installed in the lob-
by of Joseph Hernandez Hall, 
UF’s new chemistry building.
We then attended a per-
formance of “Observations of 
Predation in Humans: A Lec-ture by Dr. Zira, Animal Psy-
chologist” by interdisciplinary 
artist and writer Coco Fusco, a 
professor and Andrew Banks Family Endowed Chair in the UF School of Art and Art History. 
While sitting in the music building 
auditorium, I was ﬁ  lled with pride and 
gratitude that UF is a university that has faculty — such as Fusco — who 
not only deeply enrich our stu-
dents and community, but also 
bring acclaim to UF by winning 
national recognition like the prestigious Greenﬁ  eld Prize ear-lier this year.
There is a widespread pub-
lic perception that universities should train students only so 
they can graduate with a job. I disagree. 
The role of a great university is to 
educate, not train.  If UF is successful, it 
will provide educations that will forever 
enrich the lives of its graduates, not sim-ply train them for their ﬁ  rst jobs. 
A great education must be ﬁ  lled with 
an abundance of the arts and humani-
ties.
President Barack Obama made the 
same point when he addressed the oc-
casion of National Arts and Humanities 
Month, celebrated each October:
“Throughout history, the arts and hu-
manities have been at the forefront of progress. In diverse mediums and meth-
ods … the arts enrich our souls, inspire 
us to chase our dreams and challenge us 
to see things through a different lens. … 
The arts embody who we are as a people and have long helped drive the success of our country. They provoke thought 
and encourage our citizenry to reach 
new heights in creativity and innova-
tion; they lift up our identities, connect-ing what is most profound within us to our collective human experiences.”
UF is intentionally and intensely com-
prehensive, which I cherish and intend to nurture.  Each of our 16 colleges is strategically important, and we intend for each college to be recognized as 
among the best in the world. 
Although October is National Arts 
and Humanities Month, I am particularly 
grateful every month for the exceptional arts and humanities at UF.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His 
column appears monthly.Excellent educations should be ﬁ  lled with both humanities and sciences Guest Column
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“I have always wanted 
to study and work at 
universities where the arts 
and humanities are as 
important as science and 
engineering.”Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
A guide to fall in Gainesville
Best places for pumpkins, drinks and events, pg. 10THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Bear Hands to play High Dive on Monday
It’s a four-person electronic rock band,  pg. 9By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer 
This Halloween, adults will most like-
ly be seen wearing red sweaters, political 
masks and gorilla costumes, though not 
necessarily all at the same time.  
The types of attire expected to thrill 
costume customers this year are po-
litical, topical and nostalgic costumes, 
Wyatt Edwards, an inbound marketing 
specialist for halloweencostumes.com, wrote in an email. 
He said the website gets much of its 
information about prospective costumes 
from past and present sales numbers, 
while also remaining in tune with what people are talking about online. 
“When it comes to current events and 
pop culture, it’s all about timing,” Ed-wards said.
He said if a trend starts too late to be 
designed and manufactured into a bona ﬁ  de costume, then these trends end up 
being do-it-yourself projects. 
For Nava Ottenberg, the owner and 
operator of Persona Vintage Clothing and 
Costumes, located downtown at 201 SE Second Place, helping customers perfect their DIY Halloween costumes has been 
one component of her small business.
For the past 36 years, Ottenberg has 
moved her business to several locations 
before settling in Gainesville for the past 
decade.
She said local costume themes that 
haven’t seemed to go away have been 
’70s disco, pirates, gangsters and Victo-rian garb.
Ottenberg said Persona offers real, 
stand-alone pieces like platform shoes, bell-bottoms, polyester shirts, velvety jackets and real corsets. She said pop-
up Halloween shops offer cheaply made 
alternatives at astronomical prices when compared with her stock.  
“These are unique pieces; these are 
not things you would ﬁ  nd easily,” Ot-tenberg said. “They’re the real materials, 
the real deal.”
She said people have even come into 
the shop looking for capes and other 
pieces of clothing to put together unique costumes for popular television shows 
like “Game of Thrones.”
Back online, trends like Ken Bone, the 
red, sweater wearing messiah of the sec-
ond presidential debate; Harambe, the 
late western lowland gorilla resurrect-
ed to an internet meme; and “Stranger Things,” the Netﬂ  ix series in which 11 is more than just a number, will be made into costumes by people using the eclec-
tic selection of pieces.“DIY costumes are typically an adult 
thing, because adults will put the time 
into making a costume they can’t pur-chase,” Edwards said.
Ottenberg said around Halloween, 
customers come into Persona looking for 
speciﬁ  c items. She said usually, they’ll 
have exhausted the pop-ups or online stores and need a fresh perspective. Ot-tenberg said she thinks more people 
should consciously spend locally. She 
said it’s cheaper, and you get more per-sonalized service. 
“If you’re one tad more creative, 
you’ll spend some time looking,” she 
said.
Edwards said halloweencostumes.
com wants to help customers achieve 
their DIY goals, too. The website has put 
out some guides on how to achieve se-
lect looks. For a Ken Bone look, someone might need a red sweater, glasses, khaki pants and a disposable camera. He said the website hasn’t put out a Harambe 
DIY guide because it feels like it would 
be in poor taste to do so. 
Nostalgia has been an ever-present 
feeling among people this year. Hal-
loween costumes based off of television or movie characters usually come from the 1980s and 1990s. Based on the sales 
numbers, Wyatt said characters from the “Ace Ventura” and “Goonies” movies are coming to the forefront this season.
“As much as we say we hate it, our 
culture is all about nostalgia right now,” he said.
For halloweencostumes.com, the 
peak time to purchase costumes is right 
now, he said. Most people shop for their 
costumes a couple weeks before Hallow-een, fewer people will shop one week before the holiday and “the extreme procrastinators” take what they can ﬁ  nd 
Oct. 29 and Oct. 30, he said.
This Halloween will probably be the 
last for Persona, Ottenberg said. Be-
tween the pressure of national chains 
siphoning business and the fact that she 
is retiring, she said the close has been in the works for a while now.
Above all else, Ottenberg said she 
believes the most important thing about 
Halloween costumes is ﬁ  nding out what 
looks good on you and feeling comfort-able dressing up. 
“It’s not what you want to be; it’s 
what you want to look like,” she said.  This year’s top Halloween costumes  
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ken Bone, the internet sensation from the second presidential 
debate, is expected to be one of this year’s most popular costumes.
for Art-oberfest
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
Carina Dybevick is a senior in high school, but 
instead of having a part-time job at the mall like 
many other 17-year-old students, she manages 
her own business, making handmade polymer 
clay charms. 
Now, she has another line for her resume: be-
ing the featured artist for Saturday’s Gainesville 
Arts Market.
GAM, an arts and music festival, is a monthly 
event hosted by the Gainesville Art Scene. For its 
October event, Art-oberfest, GAM promises the ﬂ  avor of fall along with its usual array of local art 
vendors, musicians and food.
“This will be a great opportunity for the com-
munity to hear original music, try great food, 
meet a local artist and learn new art and craft techniques,” said Txong Moua, the director of the Gainesville Art Scene. “This will be a great opportunity to support local artists and busi-
nesses.”
Although GAM is hosted monthly, Moua said 
every market is unique. One factor that makes 
each arts market different from the last is its fea-tured musician, which varies by month.
For Art-oberfest, Swampland Troubadours, a 
local songwriting group, will headline the festival with an original set.
Each month, the featured artist changes as 
well.
“I am honored and excited to be the featured 
artist of Art-oberfest,” Dybevick said. “Since the purpose of Lychee Tea Charms is to bring people joy, I take every opportunity to share my art with 
others.”
Dybevick’s booth will offer polymer clay 
charms sculpted by hand. The charms, which 
can serve as necklaces, earrings or keychains, are crafted to replicate food, animals and plants.
Dybevick is just one of the dozens of vendors 
that will be present Saturday at Art-oberfest. Lo-cal artists, musicians, authors and dancers will be sharing their art with those who attend through performances, interactive displays and on-site 
lessons, said Brian Wilson, an event coordinator.
“We allow the artist to deﬁ  ne art through 
paintings, sculpture, sound, smell, touch and 
taste,” Wilson said. “Art exists in everything, and we relish in the diversity Gainesville offers.”
Art-oberfest will take place at Vine Bread 
& Pasta restaurant, located at 672 N. Main St. The restaurant will offer food and drink specials throughout the day for GAM visitors. The event 
will start at 9 a.m. and will run until 4 p.m. All 
ages can attend.Gainesville Arts 
Market returns 
ARTTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Brooklyn electronic rock outﬁ  t 
Bear Hands will perform at High 
Dive on Monday as part of its nation-al tour, which supports the band’s 2016 release, “You’ll Pay For This.”
Though Bear Hands has been an 
active band since 2006, it took the re-lease of its sophomore album, “Dis-traction,” in 2014 to get the group mainstream play. 
If you’re unfamiliar with the 
band, try listening to the track “Gi-ants,” from the album “Distrac-tion.” Its quiet drum-machine intro 
is followed by the abrupt sound of 
Dylan Rau’s distinctive sing-shout. He chants choppy verses over huge instrumental sounds, swelling with sustained synth lines and accented by a poignant guitar riff.  
Perhaps Bear Hands’ most dis-
tinctive characteristic is Dylan Rau’s vocal style. Fast-paced verses aren’t 
so much sung as barked by Rau, 
who seems to incorporate rap inﬂ  u-ences into the pacing of his lyrics. 
“I listen to a lot more hip-hop than 
rock these days,” Rau said. “Though 
I would never consider myself a rap-
per, I think there are deﬁ  nitely some hip-hop vibes on our new record.”
The stand out tracks on “You’ll 
Pay For This,” though, tend to be slower and more heartfelt than those from “Distraction.” Where a track like “Agora” from the second album sounds like a party-rock banger with 
upbeat, call-and-response-style vo-
cals, “2AM” from this year’s release maintains a more relaxed, almost de-feated pace.
It’s like “Distraction” represents 
an amped-up night of binge-drink-ing, dancing and sexual encounters, while “You’ll Pay For This” feels more like a hangover. Its pacing re-
ﬂ  ects a more contemplative, even 
regretful sound. 
“What I love about Bear Hands 
is how every one of their albums sounds different,” Juan Salguero, a 20-year-old UF English junior, said. “Their ﬁ  rst album is super psyche-delic, but their second is way more poppy. This new one is still poppy but sad, too.” 
Bear Hands released its ﬁ  rst two 
albums through Cantora Records. This independent label based out of Brooklyn, New York, is most notable for its work with electro-pop duo MGMT, artists who, at times, soni-cally resemble Bear Hands. 
With this new album, though, 
Bear Hands made a big leap. The 
group released “You’ll Pay For This” 
through its own record label, Spen-sive Sounds. After 10 years of play-ing together without a lineup change, the band’s members took the path of their music into their own hands.
“Being in the same band with 
the same people for 10 years can be difﬁ  cult,” Rau said, “but I love the 
guys, and this deﬁ  nitely feels like an 
achievement.”
Tickets can be purchased online 
at ticketﬂ  y.com or Hear Again Re-cords in advance for $15 or at the door for $17. Doors open at 7 p.m., and the show starts at 8 p.m. 
 Bear Hands to bring electronic jams 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Electronic rock band Bear Hands will perform at High Dive 
on Monday. Tickets are $15 in advance or $17 at the door.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
By Caroline Gaspich 
and Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writers
Fall is ﬁ  nally here, and you know 
what that means: going to pump-
kin patches, having your friend take 53 pictures of you holding the same pumpkin at various angles 
and drinking pumpkin spice lattes 
to stay toasty in our crisp 82-de-gree weather! But in all serious-ness, even though we don’t have the cold weather and falling leaves right now, there are plenty of ways to get in the fall spirit right here in Gainesville. 
Pumpkin patches
This is a guide to some of the 
best and worst pumpkin patches to visit in Gainesville, from those offer-ing ziplines and bounce houses to those with minimal attractions.        
• BEST - U Pick Lane Pump-
kin Patch and Corn Maze
Although it’s quite a drive, this 
pumpkin patch, located at 2391 NE 140th Ave. in Williston, Florida, is well worth it. It’s easily the best and most authentic fall experience you’re going to be able to have with-in a driving distance of Gainesville. This pumpkin patch not only has a real patch where you are able to pick your pumpkin directly off the 
stem, but it also includes a beauti-
ful corn maze and a zip line. This zip line isn’t just for children; it can easily ﬂ  y any college student across the farm! For only $10 all of these attractions are available to visitors. With reasonably priced pumpkins, horses to pet, hay to climb and de-licious corn to eat, this pumpkin 
patch has everything you could pos-
sibly hope for this fall season.
. •BEST - Gainesville Church 
of God Pumpkin Patch 
Located at 7003 NW 39th Ave., 
this is a pumpkin patch I would highly recommend visiting. This pumpkin patch is not only a memo-rable way to spend a fall day, but it 
also has a charitable purpose: All of 
the proﬁ  ts made are going directly to needy children and families in both Gainesville and Guatemala. So you can buy pumpkins of all shapes and sizes, play pumpkin checkers and have your face painted, all for a great cause. The pumpkin patch even includes a free bouncy house college students are allowed to jump in, and the church also throws 
Halloween movie nights on Fridays. 
•WORST - Trinity United 
Methodist Church Pumpkin 
Patch
This was among one of the more 
disappointing pumpkin patches to visit in Gainesville. There’s nothing wrong with this pumpkin patch; it just does not offer the same excit-
ing attractions and fall experiences 
the other pumpkin patches do. But if you’re simply looking to pick up a pumpkin and take a couple fall pic-tures, then this is the place for you, and the place even has a few spots set up just for picture taking. 
•WORST - Wesley United 
Methodist Church Pumpkin 
Patch
This pumpkin patch is also one 
I would not highly recommend visiting. Wesley’s pumpkin patch, 
located at 826 NW 23rd Ave., is a short distance from campus but won’t give you the experience you’ll be able to ﬁ  nd at any of the other pumpkin patches. It is much small-er than all of the patches previously mentioned, and it is not the most ideal place to take your fall pictures considering the fact it is directly on a main road. But if you’re in the market for the sole purpose of buy-ing a pumpkin to carve, this is the perfect place to stop by! 
 Your guide for fall in Gainesville
LOCAL
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Pauly Shore, otherwise known 
as The Weasel, has changed quite a bit from the early days of his ca-reer. 
He no longer sports wild, shoul-
der-length curls and “dudespeak” humor, like he did in the ’90s. He 
rolled with the punches of vary-
ing popularity over the years, even releasing his own mockumentary, “Pauly Shore is Dead,” to poke fun at his ups and downs in the enter-tainment world. 
Shore is certainly a comedian 
who has grown over the past three-ish decades, and he’s coming to 
Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar, located 
at 112 S. Main St., on Sunday to showcase some of his many tal-ents. 
Even if it doesn’t sell out, Rock-
eys will be packed, said Andrew Stringﬁ  eld, the venue’s general 
manager.“We’re gonna be at the point 
that we’re at standing room,” 
Stringﬁ  eld, who identiﬁ  es as a 
Shore fan, said. “I was a kid when 
he was doing ‘Encino Man,’ ‘Class Act’ and ‘Bio-Dome.’” 
Fans can expect Shore to stay 
afterward for a meet-and-greet, he said.
This is Shore’s second appear-
ance at Rockeys, with his ﬁ  rst be-ing in September 2014. Comedi-
ans Jesus Trejo and Josh Martin 
will open for him. Shore even re-corded a promotional video titled “Gainesville” to get locals excited for the event. 
“The dogs are barking; they 
want to go to the show, too,” Shore says in the video while recording himself walking through the streets 
of Beverly Hills, California, fanny 
pack in tow. 
The show will begin at 7 p.m., 
and doors open at 5 p.m. Tickets are $25, and seating is ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-served.  Comedian Pauly Shore 
to perform at Rockeys
COMEDY
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
Danny Brown - “Atrocity Ex-
hibition” - Sept. 27
Danny Brown’s fourth stu-
dio album was released Sept. 27, 
three days before its scheduled 
release. Not everyone will be a 
fan of Danny Brown, and he’s cer-
tainly an acquired taste. Person-
ally, I could never get into Danny Brown primarily because of his unique voice, but no one can say anything negative about his skill. Danny Brown is a great artist, and fans of hip-hop will appreciate his raps. Check out “Atrocity Exhibi-tion” for yourself, and form your 
own opinion.
Dave East - “Kairi Chanel” - 
Sept. 30
XXL Freshman Dave East re-
leased his debut mixtape, “Kairi 
Chanel,” the day after being signed to Def Jam Recordings on 
Sept. 29. Named after his daugh-
ter, “Kairi Chanel” is 15 songs in length and features 2 Chainz, Fabolous, Cam’ron, The Game and more. East is new to the game but raps like he’s been around for years. There’s a reason he got the attention of rap-legend Nas. The future of hip-hop is bright with 
artists like Dave East. Don’t sleep 
on him, and take a listen to “Kairi Chanel.”
DJ Mustard - “Cold Summer” 
- Sept. 30
Producers releasing albums of 
their own is always exciting be-cause of the extensive list of artist they recruit for their projects. Su-
per-producer DJ Mustard released 
his second album, “Cold Summer” a couple weeks ago just as sum-mer was ending. Writing the entire list of featured artists would take up my entire word count, but you can look forward to hearing vers-es from YG, Quavo, Nicki Minaj, Young Thug, John Legend and a 
lot more. Summer may be over 
and the temperature may begin to drop, but DJ Mustard’s album will bring the heat.The Game - “1992” - Oct. 14The Game dropped his second 
album in just over a calendar-year last week. “1992” is a follow up to his double-album “The Documen-tary 2” and “The Documentary 2.5” and he hasn’t missed a beat. 
The Game is one of the most un-
derrated rappers and is constantly releasing music to keep his fans pleased. “1992” is a solid rap al-bum that’s deﬁ  nitely worth a lis-ten. 
Gucci Mane - “Woptober” - 
Oct. 14 
Seeing that Gucci Mane has 
more than 80 albums and mixtapes in his discography, it should come as no surprise that he released his second album of 2016 since be-ing released from prison in May. “Woptober” features a ton of pro-duction from Metro Boomin and a couple features coming from Rick Ross and Young Dolph. “Wopto-
ber” is pretty much like any other 
Gucci Mane project, which means it’s ﬁ  re, so check it out.  
 Hip-hop roundup: Danny Brown, 
The Game, Gucci Mane and more
MUSICGainesville’s hot fall events 
• BEST - Adult trick-or-treating
For those looking for some alcoholic 
treats instead of sugary ones, Swamp Head Brewery has you covered. From 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Oct. 26, the brewery will be 
holding an adult trick-or-treating event 
with candy-inspired beers like Reese’s Stout, Mounds Catherine’s Russian Impe-rial Stout and Warhead Berliner, according to the event’s Facebook page. 
• BEST - Boo at the ZooThis is a great option for those looking 
for a family-friendly Halloween. The Santa Fe College Teaching Zoo will transform into a big trick-or-treating event with 14 candy stations, food and music. The event will run from 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. on Oct. 31, and admission is one canned good per person, which will go to local charities. 
• WORST - All Saints Day Cemetery 
Tour
This is a self-guided tour through the 
Kanapaha Presbyterian Church Cemetery, which was founded in the late 1850s, on Oct. 30 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. It makes the “Worst” list because why are you in a cemetery the day before Halloween? Aren’t you really pushing your luck? (These may also be personal issues.)
Your local fall favorites
It’s October, so every coffee shop has 
pumpkin-spiced everything. This fall sea-son, let us take a detour from some of the more overplayed fall favorites like the typical pumpkin spice lattes and try some new fall 
ﬂ  avors in our local Gainesville coffee shops! 
• BEST - Maude’s Classic Cafe
One coffee shop that’s full of new interest-
ing ﬂ  avors is Maude’s Classic Cafe, located at 101 SE Second Place. Here I tried a pumpkin-spiced Italian soda for the ﬁ  rst time, and al-though it sounds a bit strange, it was the most delicious drink I’ve tasted in Gainesville thus far. The cafe also has a variety of other fall specials worth noting: blackberry lavender white mochas, honey and cinnamon milk-shakes, hot cider and hot cinnamon spice tea. 
• BEST - Patticakes Another coffee shop that’s worth swinging 
by is Patticakes. There are also new fall ﬂ  a-vors to try there, including Mayan hot cocoa, sea salt hot cocoa and hot apple cider topped 
with caramel. Of course, you can’t resist grab-
bing one of a pumpkin chocolate chip cup-cake while you’re at it. 
Once you visit one of these local coffee 
shops and taste the fall treats, you’re going to thank me for breaking your typical Starbucks routine!THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-21-16-17-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
11-15-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
*****THE PUMPKIN PATCH*****
At Littlewood Elementary School
812 NW 34th St by Westside Park
M-F 3-7pm*****Sat-Sun 12-7pm
CASH ONLY****Close to Campus
10-25-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
ACROSS
1 One of a pair in
“Waiting for
Godot”
4 __ ray
10 Where rds. meet
14 Frat address
15 Iris ring16 Obama’s
birthplace
17 Basic resting
place
18 Personal guide
20 Start of “A Visit
From St.
Nicholas”
22 Common base23 “Joke’s on you!”24 Shoe fastener
27 Animal’s gullet
30 “To see __ is a
picture”:Dickinson
31 Make subservient33 Nincompoop
35 “Biggest Little
City in the World”
37 Next Dodger
after Fernando to
win the CyYoung Award
38 Historic
Manhattan jazz
club
41 Ancient Icelandic
text
42 Birthstone for
some Scorpios
43 Bavarian count
opener
44 Pose anew, as a
question
46 Hosp. areas47 Put away48 Cloud above a
peak
54 Hideout
56 Crude shelter57 Thing on a string58 Source of the
Romance
languages
62 Sound after a
punch
63 How some
games are won,
briefly
64 Dawn goddess
65 Aflame66 Cuts67 Shows
disapproval, in a
way
68 Far from friendlyDOWN
1 “How to Get Away
With Murder” airer
2 Actor Russell
3 Whole4 Member of the
reigning NBAchamps
5 Big talker6 Graf rival7 See 12-Down8 The Seine’s __
Saint-Germain
9 Use to one’s
advantage
10 Tease11 Regatta racer12 With 7-Down,
sermon site
13 (In) brief19 Prattles
21 Gentleman, at
times?
25 Sitcom that
starred a singer
26 Kidney-related28 States as fact
29 Join with heat32 Comedian who
said, “I have a lotof beliefs, and Ilive by none of’em”
33 Lavatory fixture
34 Chap35 Turn off
36 Green of “Penny
Dreadful”
38 Designer Wang
39 Scene of biblical
destruction
40 Spice Girl
Halliwell
45 Nike competitor46 Whole49 Blackens50 Jaguars, for
instance51 Garlicky spread52 Unlikely to come
unglued
53 Big name in the
bags aisle
55 Fed. 
employees
58 Energetic spirit59 Game with wild
cards
60 Him, to Henri
61 “A Queens Story”
rapper
By Jacob Stulberg©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/20/1610/20/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 20, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-25-16-10-14
CLINICAL RESEARCH INTERNSNeeded pre-med & medical students.
 
Contact Dr Shah Rahimian 814-691-7377    10-24-5-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatestWANTED: TYPIST / ASSISTANT.
Must be local and reliable. 5-10 hrs/week. 
Flexible. Call after 6m, leave info 352-378-
9771    10-25-16-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 PersonalsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Kaylan Marckese and the UF 
soccer team face Alabama tonight. Read the preview on pg. 15.Florida men's basketball picked to finish second in SEC
Media members chose the Florida men's basketball team to finish second in 
the Southeastern Conference during the SEC's Media Day on Wednesday. UF guard KeVaughn Allen was also recognized — he was predicted to earn a second-team All-SEC spot.By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Kasey Hill and John Egbunu represented 
the Florida basketball team at the Southeastern 
Conference’s annual Media Day on Wednes-day. Here are three takeaways from their ap-pearance:
1. Florida’s shooting will improveLast season, Florida was one of the worst 
shooting teams in the Southeastern Confer-ence, ranking near the bottom in nearly every offensive category. 
During SEC play, the Gators shot 42.0 per-
cent from the field, 32.6 percent from beyond the arc and 64.3 percent from the free-throw line, ranking them ninth, 13th and 12th in the conference, respectively.
At the heart of Florida’s free-throw shooting 
woes are the struggles of senior guard Kasey Hill and redshirt junior center John Egbunu, who connected on only 53.8 percent and 53.2 percent of their free throws last season, respec-tively. But there is hope.“Well, we definitely added one guy who 
can really shoot it,” Hill said.
His name is Canyon Barry, a graduate 
transfer from the College of Charleston and the son of NBA Hall-of-Famer Rick Barry.
Last season, the younger Barry shot 33.3 
percent from three and averaged 19.7 points per game. 
The most exciting part of the 6-foot-6 
guard’s game? His free-throw shooting. 
Like his father, Barry, who shot 84.5 per-
cent from the line last year, shoots his free throws underhanded.
“I think he’s gonna help us out a lot,” Hill 
said.
Hill also pointed out that many of the 
team’s players devoted extra time in the gym over the summer to work on their shooting.
“I think that’s where it started at,” he said, 
“and I think it’ll show this season.”
2. KeVaughn Allen: Silent but deadlyWhen KeVaughn Allen steps onto the court, 
you usually won’t hear him speak. “If he’s got one deficiency, that’s it,” UF 
coach Mike White said of Allen.
But his game more than makes up for that. 
In his freshman season, the 6-foot-2 guard 
started 34 of 36 games and averaged 11.6 points per game, knocked down 51 three pointers and 
converted 84.6 percent of his free throws.
And this year promises to be even better 
for him.
“He’s got a lot of positives,” White said 
of Allen. “He’s got incredible feet. He’s got a great body and build for his position. He’s got 
tremendous hands and length. (And) he’s an 
underrated defender.”
White also said that he is challenging Al-
len to be a more active defensive rebounder, 
something that will translate directly into Flor-
ida’s fast-break offense.
“When he can start the break and he’s in 
the open floor, that’s a pretty good play for us,” coach White said. “He’s a really good 
player.”
3. White, players not worried about 
road-heavy schedule
The Gators will open up the 2016-17 season 
with 11-straight road games. Three takeaways from SEC Media DaySPURRIER SPOKE TO THE 
TEAM LAST WEEK. 
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
For about seven minutes, Florida 
football players listened as Steve Spur-
rier rehashed stories from his time at 
UF.
His was a career that included a 
Heisman trophy and a national cham-
pionship. 
Six Southeastern Conference titles 
and an SEC Player of the Year award. 
One hundred and twenty-two wins, 
27 losses and one tie.
“They drive by his statue, we play 
on his field,” coach Jim McElwain 
said. “Our guys understand.”
On Thursday, McElwain enlisted 
Spurrier’s help to ensure that Florida wouldn’t fall flat in its homecoming game against Missouri last Saturday.
With members of the 2006 National 
Championship team in attendance, UF won 40-14. 
For many players, it was a state-
ment game — they were coming off a week brimming with insults and accu-sations stemming from Florida’s post-poned game against LSU on Oct. 8.
Florida coaches were said to have 
purposely dodged the matchup. Play-ers were said to have been scared. Each denied those claims, scoffing at the notion that Florida would be afraid to play anybody in the nation.
McElwain even put out a statement 
on Oct. 13: “We will play anyone, anywhere, anytime,” McElwain said. “I think I’ve made that pretty clear. The Gators never run from anyone or dodge anyone.”
And while the Gators’ 26-point win 
over the Tigers was their largest since a 32-0 victory against North Texas on 
Sept. 17, McElwain still noticed areas 
for improvement.
On Monday, he specifically men-
tioned the offense’s struggles, a unit 
he called “very average” while lament-McElwain: 
Average Florida offense “still not there”
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mike White, left, talks with guard Kasey Hill during Florida's 81-78 win over Mississippi State on Jan. 19 in the O'Connell Center. 
White, Hill and Egbunu attended
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16 SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Florida goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese refuses to accept the 
bulk of the credit when it comes 
to her team’s recent success on 
defense.
The No. 20 Gators (10-4, 5-3 
Southeastern Conference) have 
shut down their opponents’ scor -
ing attacks with ease in recent 
weeks, allowing only two goals over their last five contests.
And while the sophomore 
from St. Petersburg is the last line of UF’s defense, she contin
-
ually praises her teammates for their contributions in protecting the net as well.
“The team as a whole have 
been working really hard as a defensive unit,” Marckese said. “It’s the entire team putting the 
effort in and really just staying 
disciplined and giving it all they have.”
The goalkeeper’s play has un
-
questionably improved through -out the season, though, and it’s showing in the win column.
Since an embarrassing 3-0 
loss to Auburn on Sept. 22 that saw Marckese’s save percentage fall to 66.7 percent on the year, she has rebounded to save 15 of 
her last 17 shots faced and has 
led Florida to four victories in its last five matches.
Those numbers in net will be 
key for the Gators as they look to 
defeat unranked Alabama (8-6-1, 
3-4-1 SEC) tonight at 6 p.m. at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
The Crimson Tide ranks sixth 
in the SEC in goals per game (1.87) and possesses two of the conference’s better offensive players. 
Junior forward Lacey Clarida 
averages 0.7 goals per game, the third best mark in the league, and sophomore forward Abbie Boswell is in the top 10 for both points and assists per game.
“Alabama has some really 
creative attacking players, so that’s definitely going to test our defense,” coach Becky Burleigh 
said. “And that’s good for us.”
UF will also be playing at 
home for the first time in two 
weeks. The team is 5-1 when it plays in Gainesville this season. 
However, tonight’s matchup 
with Alabama is the first time Florida will be playing at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
The Gators’ first six matches 
this year took place at James G. Pressly Stadium, which is not considered a venue by the NCAA. 
A team must play two match
-
es at a venue to have that site eligible for postseason play, and as a result, Florida’s final home 
contest against Mississippi State 
on Sunday will be played at Dizney stadium as well.
“I’m excited about being at 
home for sure,” Burleigh said. “I’m excited about Sunday for senior day. I think it’s going to be a really fun weekend. The weather is supposed to turn a lit
-
tle bit cooler, so it looks like re -
ally good things are happening.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgGoalie’s play improving for UF
Gators play ‘Bama tonight
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese clears the ball during Florida’s 3-2 win over UCF on Sept. 18. After a 3-0 
loss to Auburn on Sept. 22, Marckese has saved 15 of the last 17 shots she has faced.
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2016
ing the self-inﬂ  icted penalties that consumed 
many of its drives against Missouri. Florida was ﬂ  agged for eight false starts, a season high.
“These guys gotta realize that they’ve got 
a chance to really be good,” McElwain said. “Overcoming the negative event or adversity or failure, that’s the key, right? And the great teams, they just clap it off and go win the next play. We’re still not there.”
McElwain pointed to quarterback Luke 
Del Rio as an example. In his return from an MCL injury, Del Rio threw for 236 yards, one touchdown and a season-high three intercep-tions.
“He was down on himself, and yet he 
shouldn’t be that down,” McElwain said. “He still played pretty darn good in some areas, and yet he knows he can play a little bit bet-ter.”
But while McElwain said he’s looking for 
improvement from the entire team heading into its bye week, he’s mostly satisﬁ  ed with Florida’s position midway through the sea-son.
“You know what, we’re 5-1,” McElwain 
said, “Last time I checked, that’s leading the East, and our guys are excited about it.”
McElwain praises defense:While the offense received criticism, Flori-
da’s coach had nothing but good things to say 
about his defense. 
The unit ranks second in the nation in 
scoring defense with just 12 points allowed 
per game and is tied for ﬁ  fth in the nation with 10 interceptions.The two biggest highlights against Mis-
souri came from cornerbacks Jalen Tabor 
and Quincy Wilson — both returned picks for 
touchdowns.
“They’re pretty darn good, and they’re 
a lot of fun to be around,” McElwain said. “We’ve got a ways (to go) on one side and yet 
the other side’s got it pretty well organized.”
What quarterback controversy?When asked if McElwain ever considered 
splitting reps between Del Rio and backup quarterback Austin Appleby on Saturday, the 
coach quickly shot down the notion of a two-quarterback system.
“No,” McElwain said. “I thought it was 
good, you know. (Del Rio) was ready to go.”
Contact Ian Cohen at icohen@alligator.org 
and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.  FOOTBALL,  from pg. 14McElwain: 'They've got a chance to really be good'
The O’Connell Center — following a 
$64.5 million renovation that began in March — won’t be ready for action until Florida’s Dec. 21 game against Little Rock.
As a result, the Gators will play their 
home games at satellite locations in Jack-sonville, Lakeland and Tampa.
But that doesn’t bother UF’s second-
year head coach.
“We’re not even talking about it,” 
White said.
He added that he’s more concerned 
with other more pressing issues, such as how his team is going to score and play defense.
“Let’s make a free throw. Let’s make 
an open three. Let’s block out. Close out with high hands. Run shooters off the line,” he said. “We’re just trying to get better right now.”
And despite the amount of time the 
Gators will be spending away from Gainesville, White said it will all be worth it in the end when his team gets to play in a brand new arena. 
“It’s gonna be a beautiful arena,” he 
said. “I’m really happy for our athletes and for our fans.”  
A video posted to SECsports.com con-
tributed to this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg. 14UF has road-
heavy schedule
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain points during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Sept. 17 at Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
