We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 12 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
Florida looking to ﬁ  x penalty 
problems
The Gators had three personal fouls in 
their opener, pg. 13
UF health center to start oﬀ  ering ﬂ  u vaccines
Free vaccine shots will be available, pg. 4
Show brings raunchy take on ‘The Lord of the Rings’
The burlesque show will combine seduction and comedy, pg. 5UF VP addresses Senate 
for ﬁ  rst time
David Parrott discussed university goals, pg. 3
CAMPUS
By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Supreme Court failed 
three petitions Tuesday after stu-dents spent two hours defending them.
During the meeting, represen-
tatives from Global Vote, a non-partisan student organization, argued on behalf of the petitions, which they ﬁ  led after the court overturned amendments to the UF Student Body constitution in a July opinion.
The amendments overturned 
are the following: allowing re-
mote online voting, reducing the 
number of Senate seats, reducing the petition signatures needed 
from the Student Body to put an 
amendment on the ballot to ﬁ  ve 
percent from 10 percent and add-
ing genetic information to SG’s anti-discrimination policy.
Austin Young, a co-founder of 
Global Vote, defended the ﬁ  rst 
petition. He asked the court to 
reconsider its interpretation of 
the three-ﬁ  fths approval require-
ment, in which the court ruled that three-ﬁ  fths of students who 
cast a ballot must vote yes on an 
amendment for it to pass. 
Young said abstention votes 
shouldn’t be included among those voting for individual amendments, but Chief Justice Chris Tribbey disagreed.
The petition failed unanimous-
ly.
Tyler Richards, a co-founder of 
Global Vote, argued that Student Senate has the power to ratify 
election results, not the court.  
Tribbey countered and said the 
court never ruled the results were 
incorrectly veriﬁ  ed, but rather that the results weren’t veriﬁ  ed as the constitution intended. The second petition failed unanimous-
ly.
Young, who defended the last 
petition, said the court didn’t 
have the authority to retroactive-ly recall amendments. The third 
petition failed 6-1. 
“One day we’ll have online 
voting,” Young said.
@ceostroff  UF Supreme Court fails three student petitions
Charles Hatcher / Alligator
EN GARDE
From left: Lawrence T an, 15, lunges at Leandro Durand, a 24-year-old UF electrical and computer engineering 
graduate student, at the Gainesville Fencers’ Club open house at Sun Country Sports Center. The ﬁ  rst 10 people to arrive at the event received a one-on-one fencing lesson on Tuesday evening.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF football players charged 
with ﬁ  ring BB guns on campus had their felony charges reduced, Bill Cervone, a state attorney, said.
On July 15, Tyrie Cleveland and 
Rick Wells, both 18-year-old fresh-man wide receivers, aimed the nonlethal weapons into Keys Resi-dential Complex and ﬁ  red them, shattering a glass door and two glass windows, according to a Uni-versity Police report.
UPD arrested both men on 
charges of criminal mischief with property damage of more than $1,000 and ﬁ  ring a missile into a dwelling.
On Tuesday, the mischief charg-
es were reduced to ﬁ  rst-degree misdemeanors and the property damage charges were dropped, Cervone said. He authorized the changes last week.The incident, which was caught 
on surveillance camera, caused about $1,400 in damages. Each player will be charged for about $700 of it, Cervone said.“We’re holding each of them ac-
countable for half the damage,” he said.
UF football coach Jim McElwain 
suspended both players for last Sat-urday’s season opener against the University of Massachusetts, ac-cording to Alligator archives. 
Both will be able to play Satur-
day when the Gators take on the University of Kentucky Wildcats, McElwain said.
The maximum penalty for the players’ new charges is a year in jail and a $1,000 ﬁ  ne, but Cervone said he doubts that they will re-ceive the maximum penalty.
Wells and Cleveland — along 
with their lawyers — will now de-cide how to proceed before going to court, likely later this month, he said.
“The next move is theirs,” Cer-
vone said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org 
 Charges reduced for UF football players after ﬁ  ring BB guns  By Romy Elenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
For 92-year-old Estelle 
Blakely, wearing makeup used to be a morning routine. 
But once she was placed 
into a nursing home in Gainesville, she said she stopped caring about how she looked.
But Tuesday, she kept smil-
ing as a UF graduate gently applied peach-colored blush and pink lipstick to her face.
After a brief conversation, 
Blakely said she felt like her old self.
“This is a special treat,” 
she said.
On Tuesday afternoon, 
volunteers with Glamour-Gals Foundation — a national nonproﬁ  t with a newly estab-lished branch in Gainesville — visited Blakely and about 
a dozen other residents of the 
assisted-living facility The Vil-
lage at Gainesville.
Allison Wrieden, 22, a 
founding member of the branch, said giving make-
overs to senior citizens can 
help them feel cared for and 
appreciated.
“I ﬁ  gured a club like this 
that provides just a day of 
pampering from young college 
students would be the perfect 
opportunity to help make 
these people feel special,” she 
said. “I think a huge part of 
healthcare is just making the 
patient feel cared about.”
At one end of the nurs- GlamourGals makes 
over nursing home
SEE GLAMOUR,  PAGE 8
Wells
 Cleveland
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  92° LOW  67°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 2410 
NW 43rd St., invites you to learn the ancient art of belly dancing in a free master class. It will be 
Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Call 352-727-7071 for more infor-mation.
Still I Rise: A Celebration of 
Tupac’s Legacy
To commemorate Tupac 
Shakur’s impact and contribu-
tions, African American Studies at UF and Reitz Union Board Entertainment are sponsoring a two-day symposium in his honor. The symposium will begin today at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom and will entail an in-depth analysis of Shakur by Tanya Saunders, followed by a forum panel dis-cussion moderated by Vincent Edward Oluwole Adejumo. There will then be a showing of the movie “Juice,” in which Shakur was featured, at the Reitz Union Auditorium at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
CORRECTION
For campus safety informa-
tion, students should install 
the GATORSAFE app. The 
TapShield app has been discon-
tinued. The Alligator reported 
otherwise in a story published 
Tuesday under the headline “UF 
student sexually assaulted near 
campus.”Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not be published.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 12
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Vice President for Student Af-
fairs David Parrott addressed the Stu-
dent Senate on Tuesday night. 
During the Senate president’s re-
port, Parrott, who began his term June 
1, told senators he aims to put students 
“ﬁ  rst on the agenda” during his time at the university.  
Parrott introduced himself to the 
Senate and answered questions about his goals for UF. 
He wants UF to have higher academ-
ics and still be accessible for all stu-dents, he said. 
“Putting those two things together 
are very, very important for me,” Par-rott said. “Everybody gets a chance to excel.” 
Revisions to the 800 codes regarding 
Student Government ﬁ  nances were also passed at the meeting. 
Charlie Brown Jr., the chairman of 
the Budget and Appropriations Com-mittee, said he was happy with the changes. 
The revisions lower the number of 
SG Finance Ofﬁ  ce violations that stu-dent organizations can make while also lowering the number of days their ac-counts will be frozen after each viola-tion. 
Brown said the change should en-
courage organizations to follow the codes.
“We were just making sure that the 
codes were as fair to all students in-volved,” Brown said. 
The revisions also raise the amount 
of money SG-funded organizations are allowed to spend on food at events from $3 per person to $3.50 per person, he said. 
“It’s one of the main complaints that 
student organization leaders had,” he 
said.
 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org 
  UF VP for Student Aﬀ  airs addresses Senate, talks goals
 Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
David Parrott, UF’s recently appointed Vice President for Student Affairs, addresses sena-
tors during Tuesday’s  Student Senate meeting. 
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
Armed with a list of ideas to im-
prove UF, Cynthia Mo climbed to 
the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union on Tuesday. 
“I noticed a lot of things that 
could be improved, and why com-plain about things and not do any-thing?” said the 18-year-old explor-atory engineering freshman who interviewed with Impact Party to run as a candidate for Fall Student Government elections. 
Tuesday was the ﬁ  nal day for 
students to qualify and interview with an SG political party at the Reitz Union. Impact was the only 
party accepting candidates. In to-tal, 227 students registered, with 
213 students registering with Im-pact and 14 registering as indepen-dent, UF Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs wrote in an email. 
Fall 2015 saw a slightly larger 
turnout of potential candidates, with 190 students registering with Impact, 46 with Access Party and 
two as independents. Mo said she wants to get in-
volved with SG to leave UF better 
when she graduates. If she be-comes a candidate, Mo said she wants to add off-campus SNAP lo-cations and organize campuswide exercise events. 
Philip Pham, a UF nutritional 
sciences sophomore, also regis-
tered with Impact on Tuesday, but he said he didn’t want to interview 
with party representatives. 
Pham registered with Impact to 
get involved on campus and be-cause his fraternity brother is in-
volved with the party, he said.
“I kind of wanted to get in-
volved because of him — (to) show 
support,” the 19-year-old said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  
 Lower turnout for ﬁ  nal day of Fall SG election interviews
Students could only register with Impact PartyTUESDAY’S MEETING:
Funding for Pazeni Sauti Africa Choir approved; group received $100Funding for Grandkids approved; group received $557.75 Revisions for 800 codes approved on first reading4   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Twenty years after gunfire end-
ed his life, Tupac Shakur will be 
remembered as more than just a hip-hop artist.
In collaboration with Reitz 
Union Board Entertainment, the UF African American Studies program will host a two-day conference cel-ebrating the entertainer starting today at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom.
The event, Still I Rise: A Cel-ebration of Tupac’s Legacy, will 
be led by a professor in the African 
American Studies program and a panel of graduate students.
On Thursday at 7 p.m. and 9:30 
p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditori-um, a screening of “Juice,” a 1992 
film starring Shakur, will be held.
Shakur, a hip-hop artist and 
activist, died in 1996 following a 
shooting in Las Vegas. He was 25.
Shakur is now considered one 
of the most influential artists in 
hip-hop history, both for his pro-lific rap career and his impact on African-American culture.
Vincent Ed-
ward Oluwole Adejumo, a lec-
turer in the Af-
rican American 
Studies program, 
reached out to 
RUB Entertain-ment in March 
about hosting the event.
This Fall, Adejumo included 
Shakur in his curriculum as a way to teach his students about the rap-per’s role as a civil-rights activist, actor and poet.
“Tupac Shakur was a very com-
plex character,” he said. “There were some positives and some neg-atives, but overall, people draw in-
spiration from his life — I thought 
it would be a good idea to recog-
nize him.”
Lissa Aderholdt, a co-director 
of RUB Entertainment’s speakers 
and comedians committee, said 
the event would foster discussion 
about Shakur’s far-reaching influ-
ence.
“Twenty years is a long time, so we thought it was really appropri-ate to do it now,” the 20-year-old 
UF English junior said.
Adejumo said he hopes students 
recognize Shakur’s achievements 
and the obstacles he faced through-out his life.
“Just because you might be a 
certain age or in a certain place in society doesn’t mean you can’t elevate to a maximum level,” he said, “and I think Tupac Shakur is a great example of that.”
@melissagomez004
mgomez@alligator.org 
20 years later, UF remembers Tupac with conference
By Brooke Williams
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starting today, UF students 
and staff can get free vaccination 
shots.
The Student Health Care Cen-
ter will offer shots at its building 
on Fletcher Drive.
Shots will also be adminis-
tered at outreach events that 
will take place on various dates at the UF Health Shands Atrium, UF Health Shands South Tower, UF Health Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine Institute, Health Professions/Nursing/Pharmacy Complex and UF Health Shands 
Radiation Oncology.
Students and faculty will need 
their Gator 1 Cards and proof of 
health insurance to receive flu shots at the SHCC and outreach clinics. 
This year, the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention is recommending people not get the 
nasal vaccination, said Catherine 
Seemann, the SHCC communica-tions coordinator. The CDC rec-ommended against using the vac-cine earlier this year due to its lower effectiveness. 
The SHCC will hold its largest 
vaccination event Sept. 16 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in front of the in-firmary, she said. The center will give shots through September and possibly October, depending on the number of vaccines avail-able.
Seemann suggested  students 
who may be skeptical of get-ting vaccinated make their own health care decisions and not be influenced by peers. It is normal for students to have doubts and fears, she said.
“Talk to a health care profes-
sional,” she said. “Do your own research.”
Nicole Smyrock, a UF nursing 
sophomore, said she’ll be getting her flu shot.
“With so many sicknesses go-
ing on, it’s important to get vac-cinated,” the 19-year-old said. 
To see the full list of dates, 
times and locations to get vacci-
nated, visit shcc.ufl.edu. 
FLU SHOTS BY THE NUMBERS
• Number vaccinated 
through SHCC last flu 
season: 12,000
• Faculty vaccinated through 
SHCC last flu season: fewer than 1,000
• Number SHCC expects to 
vaccinate through the Sept. 
16 event: 1,200 to 1,500
Source: Catherine Seemann, SHCC  
communications coordinatorUF health center to start offering flu vaccine shots today
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a shooting less 
than a mile from campus, 
Gainesville Police charged a local man with attempted murder Tuesday.
At about 10:40 p.m. Mon-
day, Everett Alexander McK-night, 26, shot a man in the 600 block of SW Third St., about 0.8 miles east of UF’s 
Norman Hall, according to a 
police report.
McKnight told police he 
got into an argument with the man over a narcotics sale, and the man came to his home and shot at him first, according to the re-port. McKnight said he then grabbed his shotgun, looked for the man and fired multi-
ple times in his direction.
The man told police he 
heard his dog barking in the 
common area of his apart-ment building and stepped outside to check it out, ac-cording to the report. That’s when he heard the blast of McKnight’s shotgun.One round struck the man 
in the leg, and he quickly ran 
to a nearby apartment for 
help, according to the report.
When police investigated 
the incident, they said there was no evidence the man had fired first, as McKnight alleged, according to the re-port.
Police charged McKnight, a twice-convicted felon, with attempted murder and pos-
session of a firearm by a con-
victed felon, according to the report. As of press time, he is being held at the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $1 million bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgLocal man charged with attempted murder near campusCourtesy to the Alligator
Abby Solaun, a UF Women’s Rugby Club player, tries to dodge a University of Central Florida 
player during a match in February. Moriah Saunders, one of the team’s captains, said old team uniforms are becoming an issue during games.
By Dylan Dixon
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Moriah Saunders, 21, has worn shab-
by UF Women’s Rugby Club jerseys for two years. But she said it’s not the bloodstains and holes that bother her. 
“Sometimes I’ll wear the No. 1, and 
it’ll be like a dress on me,” the UF mar-keting senior said. “This has definitely been an issue for the past few years.” 
The players started a GoFundMe 
page Sept. 2 to replace the 6-year-old blue-and-orange jerseys, Saunders, one of the team’s captains, said. 
Over the years, the sport’s aggressive 
nature has stretched the jerseys so loose that the team’s opponents have an ad-vantage, she said. 
“Knowing that you had that extra 
step on someone but they were still able to just grab your shirt and pull you back — it’s kind of demoralizing,” she said.
The Sports Clubs Council, the stu-dent governing body of UF’s Sports Clubs program, gave the club about 
$2,000 this Fall, said Abby Solaun, an-
other captain of the rugby team.
The funding has to go toward equip-
ment and travel fees, which leaves the 
team to cover the cost of uniforms. 
Members are responsible for bringing 
their own shorts and socks, the 22-year-
old UF construction management senior 
said. 
“We tend to look a bit unorganized,” 
Solaun said. 
The team is hoping to raise $1,500 
to cover costs of complete uniform sets that include new matching jerseys, 
shorts and socks, something the club 
hasn’t had in years.
As of press time, the club has raised 
more than $300.
“This way, we don’t have to pressure 
the girls to fork up some money for the uniforms, because it’s not fair to them,” 
Saunders said.UF rugby club team raises 
money for new uniforms
McKnight
Shakur
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Chase Musselman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Adult and childhood pleasures will collide Fri-
day at a burlesque show inspired by “The Lord of 
the Rings.”
At “Tolkien It Off,” held at 10 p.m. at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret, performers dressed like 
characters from the novel and ﬁ  lm series will com-
bine seduction, acrobatics and comedy, said Ruby Tesla, the show’s producer.
Among the characters portrayed will be Gollum, 
Radagast the Brown and Bilbo Baggins, she said.
“We are going to have some pretty impressive 
stunts in this show that haven’t been done before in this revue,” Tesla said.
The show, named after “The Lord of the Rings” 
author J.R.R. Tolkien, will take place at 112 SW First Ave. Attendees must be at least 18 years old.
In the past, cast members have participated in 
other themed productions including ones based off of the TV series “Game of Thrones” and the movie “Alice in Wonderland.”
Sierra Jones, a 24-year-old Santa Fe College net-
work security junior, said she has been a fan of “The Lord of the Rings” since she was a little girl. 
This Friday, she’ll be experiencing the series in 
a different light, Jones said.
Watching scantily-clad performers impersonate 
her favorite characters could make for an interest-ing evening, she said.
“It’s a great idea to combine the two,” Jones 
said.
Tickets may be purchased online for $12 at 
tolkienitoffgainesville.brownpapertickets.com or 
for $15 at the door. Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 
10 p.m. show.  Burlesque show brings raunchy 
take on ‘The Lord of the Rings’
Courtesy to the Alligator
Burlesque performer Ruby T esla poses for a photo 
dressed as Radagast the Brown, a character from the book and ﬁ  lm series “The Lord of the Rings. ” A burlesque show inspired by the fantasy series will come to Gainesville on Friday night at Market Street Pub and Cabaret.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The construction of low-
income housing planned for 
Gainesville received a monetary 
boost Tuesday.
During a County Commission 
meeting, commissioners 
unanimously passed a motion 
to pay Banyan Development 
$37,500, enough money for the ﬁ  rm to apply for a tax credit to help with construction costs.
The credit would pay 8 to 9 
percent of the costs of building the housing, said Alexander Kiss, a company representative.
Construction of the property, 
which would be located near Interstate 75, is not expected to begin until 2017, Kiss said. It will cost between $15 million and $18 million.
Commissioner Lee Pinkoson, 
who represents District 2, said the housing would provide low-income residents much-needed relief.
“This is exactly what we need 
in this community,” he said.
Earlier in the meeting, a 
representative from Meridian Behavioral Healthcare requested $186,000 in additional funding 
from the county to increase the 
wages paid to its workers to at least $12.50 per hour. 
The commission unanimously 
voted to review the clinic’s request at the next budget meeting if Meridian can provide more structured data to support the wage increase.
Commissioners also requested 
more data regarding the diversity of managers and supervisors employed by Alachua County.
The county’s Equal 
Opportunities Ofﬁ  ce now has 30 days to ﬁ  nd and present that information, which could affect the hiring process for county 
positions.
@Jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org  Low-income housing 
project to get funding
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ICE-COLD WELCOME
Jewish Student Union Treasurer Josh Greenspan, a 19-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance and sports management sophomore, hands Luke Evans, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore, an ice pop on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday morning. Ice Pops @ Turlington kicks off the Jewish Student Union’s Welcome Week at UF. Greenspan said JSU is “trying to get people involved with staff applications. ”
By Brianna Ellis
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s College of the Arts is at-
tempting to buy two dragonﬂ  y 
statues on display in its courtyard.
The statues, “Water Landings” 
and “Sun Catcher,” were installed next to the building July 4, said Amy Vigilante, the director of 
UF’s University Galleries. Nobuho 
“Nobi” Nagasawa designed and made the two statues for Creative B, a Summer program that com-bined students from UF’s art pro-grams. Creative B aims to showcase 
public art around UF’s campus, 
she said.
The college wanted to choose 
artwork from Nagasawa, a faculty 
member at Stony Brook University in Stony Brook, New York, that fo-
cused on insects, she said. 
Vigilante declined to say how 
much the statue cost to make, say-
ing the details of the cost are com-
plicated. UF doesn’t usually pay 
more than $100,000 for art, she said.
“We’ve been doing a lot with 
entomology lately, so for our piece we brought dragonﬂ  ies in,” Vigi-lante said, referring to the ant stat-
ues located near the Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History.
Right now, the dragonﬂ  y stat-
ues are on loan for a year, she said. UF’s University Galleries have con-
sidered adding more dragonﬂ  y 
statues around campus. 
Kristen Curington, a UF land-
scape architecture sophomore, said 
she hopes the dragonﬂ  ies stay.
“I think they’re a nice addition 
to the Fine Arts courtyard,” the 
19-year-old said. “We should have more art pieces around campus.”  UF College of the Arts hopes to keep 
recently added dragonﬂ  y statues
 Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Two new dragonﬂ  y statues stand outside the UF College of the Arts building facing 
Southwest 13th Street. 
It will receive $37,500 The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWe need to 
take better care of 
America’s sick
As I’m sure you can tell from yesterday’s editorial, the 
talented David Hoffman is taking a break from writ-ing. With that sad news behind us, I feel like I should reintroduce myself. My name is Zachary Lee. I’m very excited to announce that I will be joining the Alligator 
in a more involved capacity for the remainder of the semester. I’m humbled and honored (typical tacky word choice, but sin-cere, I assure you) to have you all as my audience.
I’ll open with a discussion about medicine — speciﬁ  cally, 
the recent development of a leukemia-ﬁ  ghting drug called Venetoclax. Trials for the drug were, for the most part, huge successes. The drug “melted” away cancer in some stage-four patients during a study of the drug that started ofﬁ  cially in 2013.
The drug was fast-tracked for approval in the U.S. Mean-
while, Australia, where the drug was developed, is still ap-prehensive about approving it. The European Union is also hesitant to accept it into its borders. While there are no known side effects, participants in the trial have, at best, only been off of the medication for three years. For the record, people who smoke for shorter periods of time than this trial can still suffer the fatal effects of smoking for much longer than three years after they quit.
It seems fundamentally irresponsible for the FDA to ap-
prove a medicine in which the long-term side effects have yet to be discovered. We here at the Alligator feel they should follow Australia and the EU’s lead in simply waiting to make sure everything checks out, especially because Australia’s own scientists were the ones behind the medicine’s creation.
We have a pretty serious dilemma here. According to the 
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, 9.8 percent of all cancer-related deaths in the U.S. stem from leukemia and lymphoma. 
The society estimates about 160 people each day die from a 
blood cancer. That’s one person every nine minutes. There is undeniably a sense of urgency that must be acknowledged in terms of the FDA approving Venetoclax. But in terms of prac-ticality, what about distribution?
Pharmaceutical companies responsible for distributing 
these types of drugs have deservedly gotten a lot of bad press lately. How are we to trust they will responsibly dole out Vene-toclax? We are still getting over Martin Shkreli, a “The Wolf of 
Wall Street” wannabe who marked up life-saving drugs 5,000 
percent. To make matters worse, he spent some of that money on the only copy of “Once Upon a Time in Shaolin,” Wu-Tang Clan’s secret treasure album. Well, Mr. Shkreli, the American people may be one thing you have mucked up, but Wu-Tang Clan ain’t nothing to muck with.
Even more recently, Mylan’s EpiPens have been increasing 
in price to the point of absurdity. A pack of two EpiPens costs about $600, which is more than a 400-percent increase since 
2009. This is blackmail. If you do not pay these companies ab-
surd amounts of money, way beyond operating costs, material assembly, paying workers fairly, etc., they will withhold your health from you.
If we have learned anything then, dear readers, from Shkre-
li’s and Mylan’s price hikes, it is that simply approving this drug is not enough, even if the long-term side effects turn out to be tolerable. 
More needs to be done, on a fundamental level, about how 
we take care of our sick here in America.
 One thing this presidential election has 
brought out in the general public that I cannot stand is the peculiar habit of people airing their opinions as fre-quently as CNN mentions Donald 
Trump. Seriously, if you watch 15 minutes of CNN, you’ll think Trump is Dr. Evil from “Aus-tin Powers: International Man of Mystery.” It seems to me this behavior, namely the obses-sive instinct to break down every single word and deed from both candidates, has trickled down into our everyday conversations. To be honest, I am tired of reading and hearing the banal, repetitive and cliche opin-ions that have been passed around as frequently as a cute puppy since last year.
That being said, I must clarify: I am by no means per-
fect; indeed, I am a hopeless hypocrite. That is why this column is dedicated to the same practice I just lamented: airing my worthless opinions about Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton. Can I provide an insight that no one else has provided? Doubtful. In fact, I am more likely to dunk a basketball than I am to captivate your imagination about this grossly over-covered issue. And for your information, I’ve never even touched rim before. So the chances are quite slim.
In my observations of the behavior of Democrats and 
Republicans, I have noticed a very human ﬂ  aw — one that certainly plagues my conscience: believing returning to or progressing toward a different time period will solve societal problems. This tendency is easier to spot in Re-publican rhetoric; conservatives are by-deﬁ  nition seeking to ﬁ  x today by implementing yesterday. They suffer from the habit of living in the past and, in turn, romanticizing and deifying the culture of a previous time.
I am not bashing Republicans; I share some of their 
core convictions. But I ﬁ  nd, as C.S. Lewis warned in “The Four Loves,” that “the actual history of every country is full of shabby and even shameful doings. The heroic stories, if taken to be typical, give a false impression of it and are often themselves open to serious historical criticism.” In other words, when we look to the past for salvation, we of-ten tend to overlook just how ﬂ  awed the past really is.
Trump has crystallized this tendency in 
his campaign slogan: “Make America Great Again.” In response to Trump, many people 
have offered the critique that this nation was never truly great. Certainly truth can be found in this statement. But I wonder if anyone has uttered this statement: “This nation will never be truly great.” I say this simply because it is liberals who turn to a Trump ﬁ  gure and wag their ﬁ  ngers at his historical revisionism and then march to a Clinton rally, during which the future is praised in advance for bringing the much-awaited peace on earth.
In other words, if conservatives are too busy compar-
ing this broken present with the glorious past, then liber-als are too busy debunking the past and fantasizing about the future.
G.K. Chesterton had his ﬁ  nger on this issue about 100 
years ago when he said, “They look forward with enthu-siasm, because they are afraid to look back,” in his book “What’s Wrong with The World.” To rephrase Chesterton, liberals live for the future because they reject the past. They engage in the same behavior that conservatives do, just in a different time period.
And that is my larger point: Trump and Clinton are 
two sides of the same coin, which is namely the habit of turning to another time period as a means to brighten this one. In doing so, I fear they distract us from the only time period that matters: the present.
But who wants to listen to another amateur opinion?Scott Stimson is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Wednesdays.
Presidential race is two sides of the same coin
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Scott Stimson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Last year I moved into an apartment 
with three of my close friends: Jes-sica, Lizzy and Mara (all pseud-
onyms). I fell in love with Mara at 
the beginning of the Spring of my 
sophomore year.
I had met Mara a year prior, on the ﬁ  rst 
night of our freshman Fall semester. Mara was Lizzy’s roommate.
Lizzy and I had been close friends in 
high school. We both wrote for the school paper, and we had a yearly tradition of see-
ing movies together on Christmas Day, be-
cause we’re both Jewish. When Lizzy and I decided to attend the same university, we were excited to continue our friendship.
On the ﬁ  rst night of the Fall semester, 
Lizzy, Mara and I were hanging out in their dorm. This was the ﬁ  rst time Mara and I had ever met. I looked through her records and soon verbally expressed distaste.“Vampire Weekend? Dude, 
Vampire Weekend sucks!” I said while gripping her copy of the 
band’s sophomore release, “Con-
tra.”
Nate, a boy who lived on 
Lizzy’s ﬂ  oor, soon came over. 
He was lanky with stringy brown 
hair and thick black glasses. He sat next to Lizzy on her bed and looked at her starry-eyed. It seemed to me like they were hitting it off and I would be 
stuck with Mara all night.
I’d like to say I had a good reason for 
my lack of interest in Mara, but I didn’t. I 
was shallow and immature. I had height-
ened my expectations of the type of girls 
I’d meet in college. I thought upon enroll-ment I’d immediately run into my Manic Pixie Dream Girl, someone who ﬁ  t an unre-alistically speciﬁ  c set of superﬁ  cial criteria: extremely petite with short dark hair, piercings and Dr. Martens. I wanted a cigarette-smoker, a 
fan of horror ﬁ  lms and a hard-
core punk. Mara wasn’t that. She was a little chubby, listened to Vampire Weekend, wore heels 
and liked romantic comedies. I 
resented her for that.
I drove the four of us to Chi-
potle, and I sparked a joint in the car after I parked. The four of us got high and ate 
cheap Mexican food together, but I didn’t 
say much to Mara for the rest of the night.
After a few months, we got to be friends. 
As Lizzy and I continued to hang out, I saw 
more and more of Mara. We drank together 
at parties, went to see movies with Lizzy and Nate and sat next to each other in Spanish class during our freshman Spring semester. I wasn’t into her romantically, but I considered her a friend.
The end of freshman year rolled around, 
and Mara and Lizzy were moving into an 
apartment with Mara’s high-school friend 
Jessica. They needed a fourth roommate. I needed a place to live. By Fall of our soph-omore year, we were all ofﬁ  cially room-
mates.
Things were great. We wasted away 
our days getting stoned on the couch and 
watching Food Network.
This is part one of a two-part column. 
Pick up next Wednesday’s issue to ﬁ  nd out how I came to fall in love with Mara, how living with her affected my mental health and what our relationship is like today. Is 
it possible to have a platonic relationship 
with a roommate you’ve been in love with? We’ll see. 
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
How I accidentally fell in love with a girl who became my roommateColumn
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
Haven’t we all fallen in love? But what 
is love? Why do we get physically at-tracted to someone? Why do we con-sider someone pretty? What should we consider to be absolute beauty? 
You may ﬁ  nd this surprising, but everything related to love and attraction is rooted in biol-ogy.
Like any other living organism, you came 
into this world with the responsibility to pass down genes. When your parents met and de-cided to have you, their intentions and attrac-tion to each other were guided and manipulat-ed by their own genetic codes — which they, in turn, passed to you.
These codes provide all of us with a script 
or manual of who we are, biologically speak-ing. Everything from the way we look to how susceptible each of us is to developing certain diseases to how we select suitable partners: It all comes from DNA. (So, you can blame your parents for any terrible exes you once chose.) Because chemical processes inﬂ  uence almost all of the magic behind the mystery of human attraction, we can assume control over them and manipulate them to our advantage.
Sight is the most powerful and 
developed sense humans have. Therefore, if you are trying to leave an impression on someone you like or at an important job interview, the way you look is essential. 
Dress in an unforgettable outﬁ  t 
complemented by strong, conﬁ  dent colors such as red and blue. Most people be-lieve style and fashion are just trends. While this is true to an extent, keep in mind fashion is just a suggestion for complementing your own style. Always create looks that comple-ment your body and personality, and don’t forget to own the uniqueness of what you are wearing.
Also, because the eyes are sensitive to 
movement, make sure when you are main-taining a conversation you make subtle move-ments that mark your statements with ﬁ  nesse and leave nonverbal impressions of attention. Maintain an interested attitude toward the speaker and reassure him or her with your gestures constantly so they have your full attention.
In order to assure success in 
any social interaction with another person, be it romantic or profes-sional, leave an impression on all ﬁ  ve senses. Try your best to always 
be polished and presentable. Most of the time you are being judged unconsciously: DNA causes us all to judge and select by appear-ance. Therefore, if you make sure to maintain a noticeable personal hygiene, you will be triggering the senses of smell at the same time you’re working the sense of sight with that stellar outﬁ  t we talked about. This combina-tion — sight and smell — will be the most powerful.
Even if you don’t take a shower one day (hey, it happens to the best of us), use per-fume and dress nicely.
If you don’t present your personality 
through your style, you won’t leave an im-pression on your target audience. Because we live in a society that encourages us to follow trends and maintain a sense conformity, the only way to stand out is to be unique and cre-ative.
During any social interaction, many ideas 
at the subconscious level develop from recep-tors inside the brain. Therefore, you can inﬂ  u-ence what’s going in your love interest’s or boss’ brain by using the ﬁ  ve senses to your advantage. 
Don’t be afraid to break away from the es-
tablished stereotype and feel comfortable with who you are.
Make your own trends. Leave your mark. 
Make sure you always stand apart from the crowd. Be a master of beauty.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology 
senior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.
How to master beauty and dominate your interactions: It's all about DNAColumn
Andrea
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Women living in the assisted living facility The Village at Gainesville receive manicures on Tuesday 
afternoon in shades ranging from clear to light pink. Volunteers from the GlamourGals Foundation came to give makeovers and company to the elderly.
ing home’s common room, UF students Kruti Patel and Kylie Schmitt painted residents’ nails red, coral and glittery pink.
Patel, a 20-year-old UF nutri-
tional sciences senior, said the group’s visit — its first so far — made the senior citizens feel hap-py, a feeling that will hopefully last long after the blush and nail polish are scrubbed away.
“I think it’s honestly uplifting 
just seeing how we were able to bring so much happiness to the residents’ day,” she said.Wrieden, who works at The 
Village, said visiting with her grandmother at a nursing home played a large role in her decision to found the branch over the sum-mer. 
She said she saw the impact 
visitors had on the moods of the home’s residents.Although GlamourGals cur-
rently only has a handful of vol-unteers, Wrieden said she plans to visit more nursing homes around Gainesville.
Dorothy Chen, a Chinese im-
migrant who moved to The Vil-lage last week, said the visit was a nice change of pace from the monotony of assisted living.
After deciding between three 
shades, Chen got her nails paint-ed Carefree Coral.
“I never do this, just when 
they ask me to come,” she said through a thick accent. “I just come here because the color is so fun.”
GLAMOUR,  from pg. 1The organization plans to visit more nursing homes in GNVEmma Green / Alligator Staff
Herbert Milch, 89, relaxes as GlamourGals volunteer and UF alumna Allison Wrieden moisturizes his face during a free makeover event at The Village assisted living facility on Tuesday. He declined to see himself in a mirror afterward and quipped, “I’m older than dirt. ”
GLAMOURGALS 
BRINGS 
GLITTER AND 
GLAM TO THE 
VILLAGEWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Estelle Blakely, 92, receives a makeover from Allison Wrieden, a volunteer with Glam-
ourGals, on Tuesday afternoon. “I haven’t put any makeup on since I moved here, ” said Blakely, who has lived in The Village since November. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Estelle Blakely, a 92-year-old resident of The Village at Gainesville, admires her made-up face after receiving a makeover from GlamourGals chapter founder Allison Wrieden on Tuesday. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11       
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
ACROSS
1 Bucks in the
woods
6 Ratted out the
bad guys
10 Dept. store stock
14 Condor’s condo?15 Prefix with logical16 Dry as a desert
17 Cold weather
groundswell that
can causepavementdamage
19 Go for the worm20 Wind down or
wind up
21 Name in Cold
War news
22 Wright who
wondered,“What’s anotherword for‘thesaurus’?”
24 Ball catcher25 Needing wheels
26 Ancient siege
weapon
30 “Knock it off!”
31 Architectural
curve
32 L.A. NFLer
35 Tax-free govt.
bond
36 Good feller?
37 “One day only!”
event
38 Boomer that no
longer booms,briefly
39 __ Valley:
Reagan Librarylocale
41 Warring factions43 Manufacturer’s
coming-out event
46 Woofer’s partner48 Landed49 Film boxer Rocky50 Black, to a bard51 Syst. for the deaf54 Islamic branch55 Reversions ... or
what 17-, 26- and43-Across allhave?
58 Bard59 Capital of
Belgium
60 Good-sized
wedding band
61 Kind of spot or
loser
62 Cong. meeting63 Lawn spoilersDOWN
1 Heist target
2 Beach bird
3 Five-time A.L.
home run champ,
familiarly
4 APO mail
addressees
5 Gem mount6 Midday snooze7 Some govt.
lawyers
8 Calif. neighbor9 Loses one’s cool
10 Pre-1985
communications
nickname
11 Car’s engine-to-
wheels
connector
12 Surfers visit them13 Paradises18 Sub access
23 __-blue
24 View from
Molokai’s southshore
25 Lab rat’s home26 Radiation units27 Taxing task
28 New England
capital
29 Needing a skull-
and-crossbones
label33 Actor Baldwin34 Screen door
material
36 Russia-China
border river
37 X-rated stuff39 Explorer
Hernando de __
40 Conceptualizes41 Permit42 Post-shower
display
44 Mail-in incentive45 They’re off-limits
46 Recipe amts.
47 “Yippee!”
50 Gets an “I’m
sorry” from AlexTrebek, say
51 Entr’__52 Short agenda?53 Iwo Jima troop
carriers: Abbr.
56 Tint57 Blackjack
component
By Pam Amick Klawitter©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/07/1609/07/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, September 7, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the name 
of the dam that created Lake Mead?
2. LITERATURE: Who wrote essays 
about attempting to speak French, 
titled “Me Talk Pretty One Day”?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: What politi-
cal party did President Zachary Taylor 
represent when elected?
4. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How 
many time zones does China have?
5. MOVIES: Who starred in the 
movie “Mommie Dearest,” and what actress did she portray?
6. FOOD & DRINK: What ingredi-
ent gives gin its distinctive taste?
7. MYTHOLOGY: The Minotaur 
and his labyrinth were said to be locat -
ed on which Greek island?
8. ACRONYMS: What does ROM 
stand for?
9. ANIMAL KINGDOM: About 
how many eggs can a queen bee lay 
each day?
10. TELEVISION: What was the 
name of the family dog on “The Simp-sons”?
Answers
1. Hoover2. David Sedaris3. Whig4. One5. Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford6. Juniper berries
7. Crete
8. Read-Only Memory9. 2,00010. Santa’s Little Helper
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 5, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**
Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
Teach English in Japan with NOVA! We are seeking enthusiastic and profes-sional individuals to join our teaching team in Japan!  For more information visit: http://www.nova.co.jp/hd/teachinjapan/    9-9-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Gators drop out of AP Poll
After its 24-7 win over Massachusetts on Saturday, the Florida football team 
lost its No. 25 ranking in The Associated Press Poll, released Monday. How-ever, Florida kept its No. 25 ranking in the Coaches Poll.Former UF quarterback 
Jeff Driskel was claimed by Cincinnati, plus more in our Gators in the NFL update.Read the story on pg. 14.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
There wasn’t a doubt that Flor-
ida’s secondary showed holes in 
its season opener against UMass 
— a 53-yard bomb down the side-
line over sophomore defensive back Chris Williamson in the sec-ond quarter affirmed that notion.
Without Jalen Tabor, UF’s star 
cornerback, the pass defense re-sembled a leaky pipe. 
It might have burst if faced 
with a higher powered opposing 
offense. 
But come Saturday against 
Kentucky, Tabor will be back on 
the field to plug up the holes and 
help shore up any cracks Florida’s 
secondary displayed. 
The junior defensive back was 
suspended for the Gators' opener after reportedly scuffling in prac-
tice with tight end C’yontai Lew-
is, who will also return this week. 
Tabor’s teammates couldn’t be 
happier to have him back.
“With him on the field, it’ll 
be a lot better for myself to get balls,” junior cornerback Quincy Wilson said, “because as you know, I didn’t get any balls this 
week.” 
UMass quarterback Ross Co-
mis avoided throwing in Wilson’s 
direction, instead picking on more With Tabor back, Gators hoping to bolster defense
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida cornerback Jalen T abor talks to a reporter at Florida's 2016 Media Day. T abor, who was suspended for the first game of the season 
for fighting with a teammate during practice, is expected to start on Saturday against Kentucky. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The Florida basketball team will 
play 12 Southeastern Conference games on national TV this season.
The games will include home 
matchups against Tennessee, Geor-gia, Vanderbilt and Kentucky and a February road match against the Wildcats on CBS.
Florida’s 12 nationally tele-
vised games rank second in the Southeastern Conference for 2016 — Kentucky leads the conference with 16.
Florida’s schedule also includes 
a tournament at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 6 where the Gators will face a field that includes Duke, Arizona State and Purdue.
UF went 21-15 last season, los-
ing in the quarterfinals of the Na-tional Invitation Tournament after failing to reach the NCAA Tourna-ment under first-year coach Mike White.
UF returns four members from 
its starting lineup from last sea-son, including junior center John Egbunu, guard Chris Chiozza and sophomore guard KeVaughn Allen. 
Allen was second on the team 
in scoring last season at 11.6 points per game.
The Gators open their season 
against Florida Gulf Coast on Nov. 11.
@icohen
icohen@alligator.orgFlorida basketball releases SEC schedule
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Late in the first quarter against 
UMass, Jarrad Davis swarmed 
into the backfield on third and 3.
The linebacker tackled Min-
utemen quarterback Ross Comis as Comis attempted his pass, a deep incompletion that should 
have brought out the punting 
unit.
But as the ball sailed through 
the air, so did yellow flags.
Personal foul. Roughing the 
passer.
First down UMass.“We were off the field,” Davis 
said, “and to extend drives like 
that, that really hurts you.”
Defensive lineman Taven 
Bryan was called for a personal foul of his own two plays later, 
another free set of downs for the Minutemen offense that scored 
its lone touchdown on that drive.
By game’s end, Florida 
amassed eight penalties — in-
cluding three personal fouls.
“That’s not how you’re go-
ing to play winning football,” UF coach Jim McElwain said after the game, “and that’s a little bit disappointing.”
With Kentucky coming to 
town on Saturday to open South-eastern Conference play, McEl-wain said he is stressing disci-
pline on the field this week and 
hopes it sticks for the rest of the season.
“We’ve just got to play smart-
er, and we can’t put ourselves 
in holes,” McElwain said. “That was a big thing when we got 
here. We did a good job of kind of eliminating some of those. But 
when you have three majors like 
that in a game, that ain’t right.”
But it’s not uncommon for the 
Gators.
With the exception of the 2009 
season, Florida has accrued either the most or second-most penalty yards per game in the SEC since 2008 — the team’s last national 
title run.
Even so, it’s a trend McElwain 
hopes to buck this year, especial-
ly after the UMass game.
“He just brought it to the ta-
ble,” defensive lineman Joey Ivie said. “He was like, ‘Look you guys, you know, you guys have gotta be more disciplined.’ … UF looking to end penalty problems
SEE PENALTIES,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
GAMES OF  
THE WEEK
MLB
T exas Rangers vs. Seattle Mariners10:10 p.m. tonight, ESPN
NFL
Carolina Panthers vs. Denver Broncos8:30 p.m. on Thursday, NBC
CFB
Virginia T ech vs. No. 17 T ennessee8 p.m. on Saturday, ABCBy Matt Brannon
Sport Writer
Preseason Week 4 is a bitter-
sweet time to be unproven in the NFL. On one hand, there’s probably 
no better opportunity to score play-
ing time as head coaches cautiously sit their starters. But it could also be your last chance to suit up if you’re 
cut from the 53-man roster. Former 
Gators experienced both outcomes 
over the weekend, from 2013 run-ning backs to Jeff Driskel to a pair of Chiefs’ receivers and scattered 
defensive specialists. 
Running backs:
Mack Brown doesn’t usually get 
much credit. The undrafted 24-year-
old led Florida’s rushing core 
alongside freshman Kelvin Taylor 
in 2013. And despite rushing for a team-best 543 yards, fans mainly remember one statistic from that 
season: 4-8. 
On Aug. 31, Brown rushed for 
149 yards and a touchdown in 
Washington’s win over Tampa Bay. Ultimately, the performance didn’t 
count for much. Brown — who 
led the preseason with 227 rushing 
yards — was cut three days later and put back on the practice squad, where he spent time last season. 
The Redskins already had two 
backups in mind behind starter and former Gator Matt Jones, and didn’t want four running backs on the ros-ter, according to CBS Sports. 
Brown’s old running partner, 
Kelvin Taylor, was dealt the same hand. 
San Francisco’s Taylor went for 
56 yards on nine carries comple-mented by a 10-yard touchdown 
run Thursday night to shut the door 
on San Diego. 
Sunday, he was one of nine play-
ers from training camp signed to the 
49ers’ practice squad. 
Driskel: It was a strange week for the for-
mer Florida/Louisiana Tech trans-fer. In San Francisco’s final pre-season game against San Diego on Thursday, Driskel was intercepted twice and completed only one of four pass attempts for three total yards. 
The 49ers cut him on Saturday, 
but Cincinnati claimed him off waivers on Sunday and added him to their 53-man roster. Now, Driskel sits at third on the Bengals’ depth chart behind starter Andy Dalton and former Alabama star AJ McCar-ron. 
Driskel tweeted Sunday, “Be-
yond excited to be apart of the @Bengals organization. Can’t wait to get to work. Also would like to thank @49ers for the opportunity.”
Chiefs receivers: Two former Florida receivers 
were targeted the most for Kan-sas City in its win over Green Bay on Thursday. Frankie Hammond caught five passes for 51 total yards, highlighted by a 20-yard grab on a second-and-long. Rookie Demarcus Robinson reeled in two catches for 19 yards on six targets. 
Robinson might’ve been the 
downfall of his teammate. Chiefs Digest reported that Robinson showed promise as a gunner on special teams which made Ham-mond more expendable. As a result, Robinson nabbed the sixth and fi-nal receiving slot on Kansas City’s 53-man roster while Hammond was cut. He later signed on to the Chiefs’ practice squad.
Defensive standouts: Rookie linebacker Antonio Morrison shined in the Colts’ pre-season-finale win over Cincinnati. The fourth-round draft pick totaled five tackles — three of them solo — along with one tackle for a loss. Morrison will be a part of Indianap-olis’ 53-man roster. 
It was a different story for Jack-
sonville defensive back Josh Evans. He had five solo tackles with one for a loss in a losing effort to Atlanta. But Evans was cut Saturday before beginning his third season in the NFL despite getting significant play-ing time on defense over the last two seasons.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org
Brown scores touchdown, Driskel signs with Cincinnati
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Jeff Driskel gets sacked by Dekoda Watson of the Denver Broncos on Aug. 20. After being cut by the 49ers, Driskel was claimed by Cincinnati on Sunday.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Former Florida running back Mack Brown rushes the ball during a preseason game against the T ampa Bay Buccaneers on Aug. 31. Brown had 149 yards and a touchdown in Washington’s win.
GATORS IN THE NFL WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
inexperienced backs like Wil-
liamson and freshman Chauncey Gardner after Duke Dawson left 
the game with a shoulder injury. 
But with Dawson healthy and 
Tabor back in addition to Wilson, don’t expect many big passing plays from Kentucky. 
As Wilson said, Tabor will 
help limit explosive plays.“That’s the big thing,” Wil-
son said. “As you know, (UMass) 
had 70-80 percent of their (yards) come on three plays. So that will get cut down.”
Tabor’s presence does more 
than limit an opposing passer. 
He gives the rest of Florida’s 
defense — including linebackers 
like Jarrad Davis and Alex Anza-
lone — some leeway and room for error.
“I think a lot of guys are going 
to be able to really let their guard 
down and go play now,” Davis 
said. “We’re locked tight back there, and it’s going to be really exciting to see what goes down 
when he’s there.”
Pass breakups. 
Pick sixes. Tabor earned both on multiple 
occasions in his First Team All-
Southeastern Conference sopho-
more season last year. 
The plays the talented corner 
makes energize the team and 
help elevate the rest of defenders’ 
games, Davis said. 
But simply having a familiar 
face next to Davis is critical as well.
“I mean, with (Tabor) back 
there though, it’s going to make things a lot easier,” Davis said. “We’re going to be able to com-
municate with him, and he’s go-
ing to know what’s going on. And just his experience as a player and being in the moment, we’re not going to have anything to 
worry about. He’s not going to 
have anything to worry about.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg13Tabor was a first-team All-SEC player a season ago 
(UMass) had some big plays for a lot of yards. And I think those are the mental errors that gotta be fixed.”
Davis said his third-down penalty 
against UMass created a trickle-down ef-fect on the team. 
His one mistake forced the defense to 
stay on the field. One mistake cost UF a shutout.
“I have to be able to kind of have 
a threshold on how to gauge myself to make sure that things like that don’t 
happen,” Davis said, “because that 
started something that shouldn’t hap-pen.”
He expects more from himself. And 
when the Gators take the field on Sat-urday against Kentucky, Davis said they will learn from it and move on.
And, maybe, the defense will get off 
the field.
“Things like that are things that 
we have to clean up on,” Davis said. “We’ve been working on that all sum-mer, all offseason to make sure that we 
play fast but we play clean at the same 
time. So we need to make sure that we just continue to do what we’ve done all offseason and we’ll be all right.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgPENALTIES,  from pg13Davis: '(Penalties) are things that we have to clean up on'
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain arrives at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium ahead of UF's game against UMass on Saturday. McElwain said he 
was disappointed in his team's eight penalties after Saturday's game. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson (6) and two teammates tackle a Massachusetts ball carrier during Florida's 24-7 win over the Minutemen on Saturday. Wilson is expected to start opposite of fellow corner Jalen T abor this season.
16   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 07, 2016
be smart.
eat local.
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
AP TOP 25 
Week 2
1. Alabama 
2. Clemson 3. Florida State 4. Ohio State 5. Michigan 6. Houston 7. Stanford 8. Washington 9. Georgia 10. Wisconsin 11. T exas 12. Michigan State 13. Louisville 14. Oklahoma 15. TCU 16. Iowa 17. T ennessee 18. Notre Dame19. Ole Miss20. T exas A&M 21. LSU22. Oklahoma State 23. Baylor 24. Oregon 25. Miami
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Alabama coach Nick Saban applauds on the sideline during the ﬁ  rst half of the Crimson Tide’s 52-6 win over Southern California on Saturday in Arlington, T exas.