We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 116 FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
Florida cruises to win over Kentucky 
behind strong singles play
UF won 6-1, pg. 16
Florida cruises to win over Kentucky 
Crime Roundup
Burglary, larceny and battery, pg. 3
Former French justice visits UF law students
He talked about counterterrorism in France, pg. 5Check out our Feature Friday
See the photo story, pgs. 8-9
HE SPOKE TO A CROWD 
OF ABOUT 4,000.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., donned 
a blue UF hat Thursday morning.
During his ﬁ  rst trip to UF, the 
presidential candidate spoke to a 
crowd of about 4,000 at UF’s Univer-
sity Village South Field, next to the 
Southwest Recreation Center.
Sanders, who spoke at 11 a.m., 
talked about the need to reform criminal justice, make public college free and ensure wage equality.
When the gates opened shortly 
after 8:15 a.m., several hundred peo-ple formed a line that stretched past the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art and Hilton UF Conference Center, winding down 34th Street.
Isaac Netzer, a 20-year-old politi-
cal science junior and the president of Progressive Gators, arrived at 5:30 a.m. 
“We’re prepared,” he said. 
“We’re ready.”
      
Jordan Gilbert started the line at 
midnight Thursday.Gainesville feels the Bern
SEE BERNIE,  PAGE 4
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student died Thursday morning af-
ter falling from an upper ﬂ  oor of Little Hall, a classroom building on campus.
No foul play is suspected, said University 
Police spokesman Maj. Brad Barber.
At about 10:05 a.m. Thursday, UPD re-
ceived a call about the incident, Barber said.
He said two other students were in the 
area when the student fell.
“Two students turned around after they 
heard the individual, that was on the ground at that time,” Barber said. “They immediate-ly began administering CPR.”
Emergency Medical Services arrived soon 
after and drove the student to UF Health Shands Hospital, where he was later pro-nounced dead from his injuries, Barber said.
He was a student at the university, UF 
spokeswoman Janine Sikes said, and his mother was notiﬁ  ed of the death.
She said more information on the student 
will become available today.
At about 5 p.m. Thursday, Jen Day Shaw, 
the associate vice president of Student Affairs and the dean of students, sent an email to students.
“It is always heart-breaking to lose a 
member of the Gator family,” she wrote.
In an email titled “Sad news for UF,” Day 
Shaw implored students to monitor their mental health and that of their fellow class-
mates.
She also reminded them about U Matter 
We Care and the Counseling and Wellness 
Center’s 24/7 crisis-intervention hotline.
“At UF, Every Gator Counts.  Please focus 
on your well-being.  Let us know if we can help,” she wrote.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgStudent dies after 
falling from Little Hall 
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
SPEED RACER
Lisa Wick, an 18-year-old UF electrical engineering freshman, checks the Gator 
Motorsports mini Formula-1 car, the F16, to see if strain gauges from the previous year are still working. Gator Motorsports is designing, assembling and testing a car that will race in the Formula SAE Michigan competition in May.  See more photos  pgs. 8 -9.Justin T ompkins / Alligator
Sen. Bernie Sanders speaks to a crowd of about 4,000 at UF’s University Village South Field on Thursday. “I want your kids to do better than you, and I want you to do better than your parents, ” Sanders said. “I want to see the American dream move forward, not backward. ”
CAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Conservation Stewards Awards
Alachua Conservation Trust is 
hosting its 2016 Conservation Stewards Awards at Prairie Creek Lodge on Saturday from 
5:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The 
theme this year, “Rise up for the Santa Fe,” is a campaign to protect important areas along the Santa Fe River. This year’s proceeds will fur-ther their ongoing conserva-tion efforts on the Santa Fe River including ACT’s 640-
acre Santa Fe River Preserve. The festivities kick off at 
5:30 p.m. with a social hour, followed by dinner and the awards ceremony. Please visit alachuaconserva-
tiontrust.org for more infor-
mation.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly format-ted “What’s Happening” sub-
missions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 116
HIGH  88° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
Two teenagers were arrested Wednes-
day night after police said they burglarized a 
school for snacks.
At about 8 p.m. Wednesday, Chase Grady 
Blocker, 18, and Dustin R. Trowell, 16, 
hopped a fence at Cornerstone Academy, situ-
ated at 3401 NW 34th St., and escaped with fruit cups, chips and cookies, according to a police report.
Trowell ran to a yard in the 3300 block of 
NW 31st Ave., where police detained him, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-bias wrote in an email. After police found a backpack ﬁ  lled with the snacks, Trowell said 
his hunger motivated him to burglarize the 
school, according to the report.
Blocker, who was not yet captured, 
climbed atop a roof and hid for about 20 min-utes as he waited for police to leave, Tobias said. He later left the roof and ran.After becoming tired, Blocker decided to 
rest near an unmarked police car — an ofﬁ  cer sat inside, according to the report.
Police detained Blocker after a brief chase, 
later discovering his pro-
bation for conveyance 
burglary, according to the report.
Blocker is responsible 
for a string of three convey-ance burglaries in the Rock Creek neighborhood, To-
bias said.
Police arrested Blocker 
for burglary and larceny and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $30,000 bond.
Authorities took Trowell, who is a minor, 
to a Juvenile Assessment Center, Tobias said.FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Blocker
By Catherine Haley
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s McKnight Brain Institute 
will celebrate Brain Awareness 
Week starting Monday.
Two former presidents of the 
National Society for Neuroscience will speak at a chapter conference at the institute next week to cel-
ebrate brain awareness. This will 
be the ﬁ  rst time two former presi-dents attend.
Former presidents Dr. Carol 
Barnes and Dr. Susan Amara will 
speak at the conference. Barnes 
will speak Monday and Amara will be the keynote speaker Tuesday.
Amara will lead a panel dis-
cussion Tuesday for students and staff at the institute.
“We wanted strong women in 
science. We got not only one, but two,” said Danielle Sambo, the 
Society for Neuroscience’s North 
Central Florida Chapter president. “Females are often underrepre-sented in science sometimes, so 
I think this is very important and 
something that we are proud of this year.”
The chapter will work with 
about 20 schools and about 2,000 students across the state during the week, Sambo said.
Caitlin Orsini, the confer-
ence chair for the chapter, said high-school and middle-school students will dissect preserved sheep brains. Elementary-school 
students will color pictures of the 
brain and learn about Parkinson’s disease, strokes and other diseas-es. 
“I think that it is so cool to 
reach out to kids at a young age and show them that science can be cool, and it can be fun, and you can do this as a career,” said Abbi 
Rosen Hernandez, the North Cen-
tral Florida Chapter conference vice chair.Celebrating Brain Awareness WeekTUESDAY’S CONFERENCE SCHEDULE
 All events at McKnight Brain Institute except 
poster competition 
 8:30 to 11 a.m.: Poster Competition in the Founder’s Gallery in UF’s Academic Research 
Building
 Undergraduate students, graduate students, 
postdoctoral fellows and staff will present re-search on the brain
 11:15 a.m. to 12:15 p.m.: Panel Discussion Room LG-110
 Discussion on “Data Reproducibility in Science”
 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.: Data Blitz in the DeWeese 
Auditorium
 Five-minute presentations about speakers’ re-
search given
 2:45 to 4 p.m.: Keynote Address in the DeWeese Auditorium
 Dr. Susan Amara speaksIt begins on Monday
Police arrested the owner of Tatu Sushi on 
three charges of battery after reviewing sur-
veillance footage from the weekend.
In a two-hour span between Saturday 
night and Sunday morning, Chang S. Bahn, 
48, was recorded sexually harassing a female 
employee and customer, and then punching another employee in the face, according to a police report.
Around midnight Saturday, Bahn took 
shots with customers in the restaurant, situ-ated at 1702 W. University Ave. Later, Bahn slapped his female employee’s butt and rubbed against her, according to the report. 
Bahn also told a customer it would be okay to 
“f---” the waitress if she didn’t get pregnant, according to the report. He was later seen grabbing the waitress’ face and kissing her nose.
He is also seen approaching a female cus-tomer and shoving the back of her head, ac-cording to the report.
At about 1:20 a.m., as the customer fell 
asleep at the bar, Bahn reached near her lap, 
according to the report. 
The waitress said Bahn 
was pulling up the wom-an’s skirt.
When another employ-
ee confronted Bahn, he slapped and punched him in the face. The employee 
then punched him back, according to the report.
Bahn declined to comment.Police arrested Bahn on Wednesday after-
noon and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Thursday on a $15,000 bond.Teenagers arrested for breaking into, stealing snacks from school
- Martin VassoloBahn
Police: In surveillance video, Tatu Sushi owner punches customer
- Martin VassoloGilbert picked up his boyfriend 
at Southwest Rec and decided to 
stay, the 23-year-old said. His only supply for the 11-hour wait was a towel.
The future UF political science 
student said he supports Sanders’ honesty and trustworthiness.
“What is there not to like about 
Bernie?” he said.
Emily Lakeman, 18, left Talla-
hassee at 10 p.m. Wednesday to see Sanders. She called her friend Derek Dean, 23, and asked him to join her.
“We decided we didn’t want to 
sleep,” Dean said. “We just wanted to drive.”
Dean had just finished a 13-hour 
shift at Dollar General before the drive, and the duo got in line at 1 a.m.
“It was a totally random deci-
sion,” Lakeman said. “We ate in 
Tally and drove down.”
•   •   •
Among the crowd, more than 
100 volunteers helped run the 
event, Netzer said.
Garrett Quinlivan, 75, and his 
wife, Marilyn Eisenberg, 70, woke 
up to volunteer at 6:40 a.m.
Quinlivan, a former member of 
the Alachua County Green Party, 
said he started supporting Sanders in July, soon changing his political affiliation to vote for Sanders in the primary.
“He’s not running for himself,” 
he said. “He’s running because he 
really wants to change things.”
After the gates opened, fans who 
held “Feel the Bern” signs passed 
through security and entered the field.
The sound of drums and bass 
filled the air as the band Mama Trish vs. Godzilla played during the 3-hour wait.
•   •   •
Two UF students and a congress-
woman took the stage around 10:45 a.m. to welcome Sanders.
Netzer and Molly Vise, a 21-year-
old biology senior and a co-founder 
of Progressive Gators, encouraged 
students to vote now and again for Election Day in November.
“If you’re a student on this cam-
pus, it is up to us,” Netzer said.
Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard 
(Democrat, Hawaii) introduced Sanders after Courtney Graham, Miss Ocala’s Outstanding Teen, sang the national anthem.
Gabbard said Sanders has the 
necessary judgement to make good 
decisions as commander-in-chief.
“He has the foresight to make 
those right decisions for our coun-
try,” Gabbard said.
•   •   •
Sanders took the stage, and the 
crowd chanted “Bernie, Bernie, Ber-nie.”
After Sanders thanked students 
for coming, he placed a blue UF hat on his head.
He told the crowd democracy is 
not a spectator sport.
“If we are going to change this 
nation, we have got to do it togeth-er,” he said.
He told the audience that mil-
lions of Americans are working lon-
ger hours for lower wages, adding 
that America has worse income and wealth inequality than any other major country.
“Unless we turn this economy 
around, your generation will likely have a lower standard of living than your parents,” Sanders said.
Sanders said he wants today’s 
youth to live the American dream.
“I want your kids to do better 
than you, and I want you to do bet-ter than your parents,” he said. “I want to see the American dream move forward, not backward.”
Part of the solution, he said, is to 
create a federal minimum wage of $15 per hour and achieve equal pay 
for both men and women.He also promised to reform the 
criminal justice system and legalize marijuana.
“We are going to invest in jobs 
and education, not jails and incar-
ceration,” Sanders said. “I want our young people to be working or studying, not seeing their lives de-stroyed in jail.”
He told the audience he will im-
plement campaign finance reform. 
He said his campaign relies on indi-
vidual contributions and not dona-tions from corporations.
“This is a campaign of the peo-
ple, by the people and for the peo-ple,” he said.
Toward the end of his speech, 
Sanders assured the crowd that everyone can help make positive 
change.
“Real change never takes place 
from the top on down,” Sanders 
said. “It’s always from the bottom on up.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
LOCAL
By Levi Bradford
Alligator Contributing Writer
For some, tonight is all about 
beer and Bernie.
Kent Willis, who works for Ala-
chua County Wants Bernie Sand-
ers, organized Bernie’s Bar Crawl, which takes place tonight at 8 p.m.
The organization is a grassroots 
campaign headquartered at 1406 NW 6th St. and referred to by vol-unteers as “The Bern-Unit,” Willis wrote in a Facebook message.
The crawl starts at Market Street 
Pub, followed by Tall Paul’s Brew House and Whiskey House.
After presidential candidate Sen. 
Bernie Sanders’ rally Thursday, 
Willis said interest in the bar crawl 
increased by about 20 percent.
“If we get too many people at 
the event, we’ll most likely be split-ting into smaller groups,” he said.  
Members of the organization 
have discussed new destinations on the event’s Facebook page in hopes of not overwhelming the bars.
Willis said he will likely have 
Swamp Head Brewery’s Wild Night beer tonight.
David Rinehart, who graduated 
from UF in May 2015, said it was 
amazing to find a candidate who 
shares 100 percent of his views.
“I’m extremely passionate about 
immigration,” Rinehart said. “I 
want to hear from other people and 
what they’re passionate about.”
Rinehart’s favorite drink is First 
Magnitude Brewing Company’s 72 Pale Ale.
Willis and Rinehart both said 
Bernie directly affects college stu-dents, especially with his promise to make college tuition free.
After the crawl, Sanders sup-
porters who are inclined to danc-ing may visit Simons or University Club, according to the event’s Face-book page.Bernie 
supporters to hold bar crawl tonight 
Bar crawl starts at:
Market Street Pub
112 SW First Ave., 8 p.m.
• Recommendations:
 Limit to one drink per bar
 Wear Bernie gear
• Facebook as of press time:
 419 interested
 76 going BERNIE,  from pg1Sanders talked about legalizing marijuana
LEFT:
Sen. Bernie Sanders meets his supporters, shaking hands and taking photos, after his speech at UF’s University Village South Field on Thursday.
BELOW:
Supporters shout and cheer dur-ing Sen. Bernie Sanders’ speech at UF’s University Village South Field on Thursday. The presiden-tial candidate spoke to a crowd of about 4,000 people.
 Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
$5 off
$30 purchase
adamsribco.comor352-373-8882
352-727-40052109 NW 13th St.
1515 SW 13th St.
HE TALKED ABOUT 
COUNTERTERRORISM 
IN FRANCE.
By Nate Phillips
Alligator Contributing Writer
A former high-ranking mem-
ber of the French judiciary spoke 
about balancing liberty and coun-terterrorism in France on Thurs-day.
Guy Canivet, who was a mem-
ber of the French Constitutional Council, spoke at UF’s Levin Col-lege of Law about the problems France’s courts face during a state of emergency. About 50 people attended the event.
A state of emergency can only 
be implemented when a state 
faces great danger, he said. The 
French government declared a state of emergency Nov. 14, the day after about 130 people were killed in the Paris attacks.
Canivet, who was the presi-
dent of the French Court of Cassa-tion, said the state of emergency declared in November is still in ef-
fect. It allows the French govern-
ment to take extreme measures, such as the prohibition of public meetings and searches without warrants, to protect its citizens.
“The question becomes where 
to draw the line between counter-terrorism measures and human rights,” Canivet said. “We must 
ﬁ  nd a balance.”Claire Germain, an associate 
dean for legal information at the 
College of Law, said she hopes Canivet’s lecture teaches students how world events affect the judi-cial system.
“We are citizens of the world, 
so it’s important for us to un-
derstand other 
countries,” Ger-
main said.
She said the 
talk was impor-tant because of world affairs.
“Terrorism 
is a global is-sue,” Germain 
said. “Everyone is affected by it, so it’s important to understand the issues behind it.”
Kelly Scurry, a 24-year-old UF 
law student, said he enjoyed Ca-nivet’s explanation of the French judiciary.
“It’s good to see (the French 
government) attempting to en-
sure that constitutional rights 
remain during its state of emer-gency,” Scurry said.
Canivet said the court’s deci-
sions during the state of emer-gency are difﬁ  cult to evaluate because the state of emergency is ongoing.
“The events of the future will 
tell us whether the measures we are taking are correct,” Canivet said. “But the primary task of the government is the protection of its people.”  Former French justice 
visits UF law students
Canivet
Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Keep Alachua County Beautiful, an afﬁ  liate of the 
nonproﬁ  t organization Keep America Beautiful, will hold 
its Great American Cleanup this Saturday.
The event will take place at the Albert “Ray” Massey 
Westside Recreation Center, better known as Westside 
Park, from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. The park is situated at 1001 
NW 34th St.
Gina Hawkins, KACB’s executive director, said vol-
unteers will pick up trash, sow plants and shred ofﬁ  ce paper, among other activities. She said residents are also welcome to dispose of hazardous household items.
While things such as tires, paint, chemicals, car bat-
teries, ﬂ  uorescent light bulbs and non-narcotic medica-tions are accepted, ammunition and car rims are not, Hawkins said.
She said businesses may only dispose of paper.Last year, after collecting a total of 164 tons of trash, 
KACB was awarded the national Great American Clean-up Award. Hawkins said about 800 people are expected to participate Saturday. 
“At the Great American Cleanup main event last year, 
we had 800 people, but had 4,044 (volunteers) for the whole year,” Hawkins said.
The event is co-sponsored by the City of Gainesville 
and Alachua County, she said.
Kelly Thomas, a 19-year-old UF biological engineering 
junior, has removed trash and other waste from down-town Gainesville while volunteering in the past. 
“It helped the environment and the community by 
reducing waste products that can harm animals and na-ture,” she wrote in an email.  Saturday event to beautify GainesvilleCAMPUS
By Madeleine Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer
The founder of the #BlackLives-
Matter Twitter movement will come to UF on Monday.
At 6 p.m., Alicia Garza, the 
founder of the #BlackLivesMatter 
movement on Twitter, will speak at 
the University Auditorium as part of Pride Awareness Month. She is being paid $10,000 to speak.
The awareness month starts 
in the middle of March and goes through the middle of April. During the month, UF’s Pride Student Union will host a series of events to educate 
students and Gainesville residents 
about the LGBTQ+ community, said Richard Lainez, the public relations director of Pride Awareness Month.
“We aim to have it so it is a year-
long thing, a lifelong thing,” Lainez 
said.
The purpose of the month is to 
support members of the LGBTQ+ 
community and focus on advocacy for these individuals, he said.
To celebrate Pride Awareness 
Month, there will be a queer ﬁ  tness class, a drag show, a fashion show and other events for students and 
Gainesville residents, Lainez said. 
Most events will be held at UF.
Hiram Martinez-Cabrera, a co-
president of PSU, said he hopes the month allows students who aren’t members of the LGBTQ+ commu-nity to gain a greater understanding of it.  The events are meant to include 
everyone, Martinez-Cabrera said. Santa Fe College students, UF stu-
dents and those in the surrounding 
Gainesville community are encour-aged to attend.
For the ﬁ  rst time, a conference 
will also be held with other universi-ties in Florida, he said.
The Florida Collegiate Pride Coali-
tion Conference will bring LGBTQ+ students across the state together 
for workshops and presentations 
throughout the month about de-veloping their identities and social change, he said.
“To support our movement, go 
out to the PAM events because they will be fun, informative and transfor-mative,” Martinez-Cabrera said.  #BlackLivesMatter, LGBTQ+ pride eventThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnGetting back into the swing of things after a week off is 
usually extremely difficult. It’s hard to wake up for those 
7:25 a.m. classes, pull all-nighters and eat Top Ramen af-
ter a week of sleeping in until noon, lounging by the pool 
or beach and eating home-cooked meals — that is, if you went home. 
It’s been arguably one of the longest weeks of the se-
mester so far, at least for us here at the Alligator. But now that we’re back, it’s time for everyone’s favorite part of the week...
Darts & Laurels
Now for some sweet news, Ben & Jerry’s released three 
new core flavors. Get ready for Brownie Batter Core, Cookies & Cream Cheesecake Core and Coconuts for Cara-
mel Core. 
So while you’re crying during ever-looming midterms or 
finals, watching Netflix and chilling (literally, because ice 
cream) or having a late-night snack, you’ve got three new 
flavors to choose from. Here’s a Laurel to Ben & Jerry’s  
for making the world a sweeter place.
There is currently a bill figuratively sitting on Gov. Rick 
Scott’s desk that should cause any proponent of a woman’s 
right to make decisions about her own body some substan-
tial concern. 
The bill, SB 1722, proposes severe restrictions on abor-
tion clinics, similar to those we’ve seen recently disputed 
in Texas and before the U.S. Supreme Court. In fact, the 
bill in Florida is extremely scary because, in the words of 
Planned Parenthood Federation of America President Ce-cile Richards, “Florida would, in one bill, do the damage it took Texas years to inflict on women.”
The bill would slash access to safe abortions in a thinly 
veiled attack on Planned Parenthood and other clinics. It proposes that government funding be unavailable to clin-ics that perform abortions outside of cases of rape, incest or severe bodily harm to the mother. It also stipulates that 
all abortion-performing doctors have admitting privileges 
at a hospital within a “reasonable proximity to the clinic,” which is absurdly vague. Perhaps the most ludicrous aspect of the bill is that it literally redefines the pregnancy trimes-ters put forth by actual doctors.
We’re giving a giant DART to this whole situation: an 
abomination of a bill designed to attack safe female health care providers, the fact that a man singlehandedly controls the degree to which millions of women can control their 
own bodies and the culture we live in that allows bills such 
as this one to exist.
On a more light-hearted note, Marvel released a new 
“Captain America: Civil War” trailer, and Marvel fans all about orgasmed as Spider-Man made an appearance in the 
trailer. 
While it’s totally awesome for Spider-Man to finally 
have a spot with the Avengers, it’s a bummer Hollywood 
has chosen yet another generic white male to play a su-
perhero. With Andrew Garfield’s contract issues, a new 
Spider-Man had to be cast. 
It was a missed opportunity to cast a more diverse char-
acter (the second Ultimate Spider-Man was originally black and Hispanic). So here goes a Laurel to Marvel for that 
enthralling trailer but also a Dart for the lack of diversity  
with Spider-Man.
Internal misogyny is more common than you think
We’re all guilty of it. Even a diehard 
feminist like myself has the occa-sional “ugh, get a load of her” mo-ment when confronted with a scant-ily clad girl at a party. Internalized 
misogyny is the act of women elevating the status of men through demeaning the value of other women. At its most overt, internalized misogyny manifests as women openly tearing down other women. However, a far more sub-tle manifestation exists in the remarks women make day to day. It’s so subtle we may not even realize what we’re doing. In this column, I’m go-ing to identify three very common internally misogynis-
tic remarks I’ve heard — and made! — and explain the 
damage they do to feminism.
“You can’t put out on the first date”: This internally 
misogynistic comment is slut-shaming dressed as gentle “I’m-just-looking-out-for-you” advice. I’ve heard it from some of the most caring, nonjudgmental friends I have, and I knew their intentions were good. But the sub-text was still the same: Sex is a bargaining chip women need in order to reel in men; women’s many merits 
aren’t enough; the end goal for men is purely sexual; 
lose that, and we women have nothing. While this logic may come from a place of genuine concern, it promotes an idea that severely denigrates the role of women in relationships.
“She’s just going to be a housewife”: This comment 
used to pose a gray area for me, as I’m inclined to re-ject the “traditional” role of women as caretakers and homemakers. 
However, I’ve realized not wanting to fill this role is 
a personal preference for each woman to make indepen-dently. In fact, I admire women who choose this path. Keeping a household running nowadays takes a level of organization, domestic skill and financial manage-ment that’s truly impressive. My point is, undervaluing one woman’s choice to remain at home is equally as damaging as putting another woman down for entering the workforce. Both roles are equally impor-tant, and denying that only stalls feminism’s progress.
“I’m not friends with other girls. It’s too 
much drama”: This remark is one I unfor-
tunately have plenty of experience with. As 
an insecure 18-year-old, I thought it would make me seem cool, like “one of the guys.” It didn’t. I would scoff at other girls for their makeup and heels — after all, I was just too chill for that! I even started emulating hobbies and habits I thought were “guy things” in the 
hopes my charade would play out. This led to two years of faking an interest in adrenaline sports and India pale 
ale until I finally gave up. I was sick of being terrified 
while strapped to a zip line, bungee cord or wakeboard, and I wanted a drink that wasn’t just hops. At the time, I thought asserting an identity as “not one of the oth-er girls” somehow made me special. I didn’t realize, though, how I wasn’t actually differentiating myself so much as generalizing other women. I was grouping them all into the category of “other girls,” implying they were all equally forgettable and not worth knowing.
These are just three of the most common internally 
misogynistic remarks I’ve heard. Sadly, there are many more I could address, but that would take weeks and more ink than any newspaper could afford. 
Ultimately, though, the root of these remarks is the 
same: It’s the fact that, even in the 21st century, women are constantly bombarded with lessons about their rela-tive worth. We’re told how we should look by the me-dia, what we should do by society and how we should 
act by mothers of a different decade. It’s exceptionally 
difficult to not internalize these lessons and espouse them; it’s what we’ve been taught. 
Although there is exceptional progress being made, 
the only way feminism can truly thrive is if we, togeth-er, consciously fight our own internal misogyny.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
This election season, there 
is too much at stake to simply sit at home and 
not let your voice be 
heard. 
In my view, there is only one 
candidate ready to successfully 
and efﬁ  ciently tackle all of the challenges our country faces — both at home and abroad — and also ensure our nation moves forward and builds on the progress we’ve made. 
That candidate is Hillary Clinton.
As a millennial voter, I was proud 
to cast my ﬁ  rst-ever vote for her on Su-per Tuesday in my home town of Ro-
swell, Georgia. I am honored to support 
and volunteer for her campaign here in Gainesville. 
I serve as the vice president of Gators 
for Hillary, a group of passionate UF stu-dents, faculty, alumni and Alachua Coun-ty citizens who support Hillary’s bid for the presidency (@Gators4Hillary on Twit-ter, Snapchat and Instagram). There are a 
number of reasons why I feel Hillary is the 
right candidate.
First, her incredible level of experience 
and knowledge makes her the best person 
for the job. 
From her time as ﬁ  rst lady, to serving 
as a New York senator, to serving as sec-
retary of state, she has more experience than any other candidate. 
Mind you, the U.S. presidency is a posi-
tion of unprecedented inﬂ  uence. She has been there in the periphery, thick and 
thin. She’s sat in the White House Situ-
ation Room during tense events; she ad-vised President Obama on the killing of Osama bin Laden. Experience in this job 
is vital, and she’s got it. 
Alternatively, one cannot go from be-
ing a boisterous real-estate mogul to an 
effective president.
Second, her incredible passion and 
commitment is evident and inspiring to me, as she’s fought for what she believes in all of her life — beliefs I also share. 
From advancing women’s rights around 
the world, to advocating and ﬁ  ghting for bold health care initiatives, to protect-ing children’s rights, to helping everyone have an equal chance in life, Hillary has our nation’s best in-terests at heart. She is the best 
change-maker I have ever seen. 
She gets results, plain and 
simple.
We all see what is happening 
in the Republican race. While 
they are comparing “hand” sizes and battling over who can out-
attack the other, the Democratic race is actually focused on substantive plans to 
continue moving this country forward. 
Hillary and Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., are proposing forward-thinking proposals to the American people. 
While Bernie’s ideas appeal to many, 
personally I believe his positions are over-reaching, and I feel he’s overpromising to the American people, especially to millen-nials like myself. Hillary’s proposals are 
smart, efﬁ  cient, tough and practical, and 
she has laid out exactly how she plans to pay for it all. She will put our country on the road toward success, and she will pro-
tect the legacy Obama leaves.
Hillary is, and has always been, a ﬁ  ght-
er. Above it all, what this country really 
needs is a uniﬁ  er-in-chief, not a divider-in-chief, as one of the GOP candidates 
would be. 
We need someone to break down the 
barriers holding others back from getting 
ahead and staying ahead. This is not the 
time to alienate people based on their 
ethnicity, religion, background, sexuality or any other classiﬁ  cation. Hillary has al-ways and will always ﬁ  ght for us — all of us.
There is no woman I know as tough as 
Hillary. People have tried to tear her down for decades, gutless attack after gutless at-tack. Most of us would have given up at 
this point. Not Hillary. When she does get 
knocked down, she gets right back up and keeps ﬁ  ghting, tougher and stronger than ever. She is our ﬁ  ghter. I know she is the only one right for the job. I’m conﬁ  dent 
she’ll be ready to go from day one, no tour 
of the West Wing necessary.
Jacob Best is a UF journalism fresh-
man. He is the vice president of Gators for 
Hillary.Why I support Hillary ClintonGuest column
Recent polls indicate the 
U.K. is leaning closer toward exiting the Eu-
ropean Union, and June 
23, Britons may decide 
to do just that via national ref-erendum. The odds seem to be 
against this. Britons overall have 
a long history of being support-ive toward remaining part of the Union, but with the most recent Telegraph poll, indicating about 49 percent of Britons 
favor leaving, the U.K.’s status in Europe 
— and by extension, the world — appears tenuous. 
This vote arrives in the midst of the 
worst migrant crisis since World War II, primarily due to Syrian and Afghan refu-gees entering Europe by the millions. It also follows a relatively slow economic recovery from the 2008 recession. British 
Prime Minister David Cameron, who pro-
posed the referendum, has vowed to vote against exit from the EU, or Brexit, as it is called. A few prominent members of his 
Conservative Party, particularly London 
Mayor Boris Johnson, have conspicuously decided not to follow Cameron’s lead. 
If proposing a referendum and imme-
diately swearing to act against its aim ap-
pears contradictory on Cameron’s part, it 
is because Cameron is attempting to allow Britons to make sense of their greatest na-tional contradiction: being part of Europe 
without being part of Europe. Cameron un-
derstands leaving would be a mistake, but members of his Conservative Party, who have played too far into their skepticism of the European project for unity — or Euros-
cepticism — publicly do not. 
Proponents of Brexit claim EU regula-
tions are hurting British businesses, trade 
agreements with the 28 member countries 
of the EU could be better negotiated indi-
vidually and the judicial activism of Euro-pean leaders has hindered British sover-eignty. As Johnson has put it, voting yes means more money and more control for 
the British people. I do not wholeheartedly 
agree. As the New York Times editorial board argues, “If E.U. regulations were as onerous as British critics say, those rules 
would hurt all 28 member countries. Yet the economies of other members 
like Germany, the Netherlands and Ireland have been more pro-
ductive than Britain.”
As for trade agreements, EU 
leaders have indicated they in-
tend on making the renegotiation 
process as painful as possible 
for Britain, should Brexit suc-ceed. And as political scientist 
Ian Bremmer pointed out, the mounting problems in Europe cannot be addressed 
without ﬁ  rst addressing Britain’s status in 
Europe, a process that would take a couple years to resolve. This complication would affect 60 percent of Britain’s trade, which 
enters Europe, and would temporarily 
separate them from the tariff-free Euro-pean market — not to mention being per-manently severed from the world’s largest economy, with a GDP of $18.5 trillion. 
However, a Brexit may not even hurt 
too many British businesses because many may opt to leave the U.K. for the EU and avoid the problems of exit. Though, I imag-
ine they could no longer be called “British” 
businesses. Nevertheless, talk of the Brexit is hurting the British pound, the source of British pride — or perhaps smugness — during the depreciation of the Euro and the 
risk of a Greek exit.
A Brexit would succeed in ending the 
free movement of migrants from Europe 
into Britain. Polish and Czech immigrants 
entering the U.K. and claiming welfare ben-
eﬁ  ts has long been a source of anxiety for the British people. I contend that if recent domestic proposals from Cameron’s gov-ernment assuage these fears, no immediate 
solution exists for the problems of Syria, 
Iraq and Afghanistan, especially the inﬂ  ux of refugees. 
Eurosceptics point out Britain was not 
involved in forming the EU, but they fail to mention Britain’s current absence of em-pire: Without the EU, Britain is a second-ti-er power. The proponents of Brexit, includ-ing a certain London mayor with eyes on 
the prime minister’s seat, must recognize 
leaving the EU amounts to the U.K. exiting from its place on the world stage. 
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.Exit stage right, exit stage leftColumn
Jacob Best
Speaking Out
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
Photos by Andres Leiva
Alligator Staff Photographer
On any given night, you’ll 
ﬁ  nd a room full of Gator Motorsports team mem-bers working with all sorts 
of machines: lathes, saws 
and welders. In one corner of the 
workshop sits the object of their labor, the skeleton of a miniature Formula-1 car: the F16. In May, 
the students of Gator Motorsports 
will wheel out the completed race 
car in the Formula SAE Michigan competition, an event in which 120 teams from around the world 
pit their car designs against each 
other to see who can build the fast-
est, most efﬁ  cient and most eco-nomical car.
RIGHT:
Most weekdays, students will work in the shop until at least 10 p.m. On weekends, some students might work well past midnight.
BELOW:
As an emeritus member of the team, Noel Thomas’ knowledge helps solve problems when they arise. BUILT FOR SPEEDGator Motorsports placed second in last year’s competition. 
This time, they’re gunning for first.LEFT:
In this May 15, 2015, photo, then-19-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior Ben Boulch pilots the F15 car on the Michigan International Speedway in Brooklyn, Michigan, during the 2015 SAE competition.
BELOW:
Twenty-two-year-old UF me-chanical engineering senior Noel Thomas welds two car compo-nents together in the Gator Mo-torsports shop located in UF’s Mechanical and Aerospace En-gineering Building C on Gale Le-merand Drive.
LEFT:
Cody Fisher, an 18-year-old UF mechanical engineering freshman, uses a manual lathe to machine a spacer to be used in the car’s sus-pension. Thanks to a three-axis computer numerical control, or CNC, mill in the shop, the team can machine many of the car’s compo-nents in-house.
BELOW:
Claire LeBlanc, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore and brakes team leader, works on one of the car’s brake lines. Students in Gator Motorsports work on different car systems under a team leader who oversees the development of that system.
The 2016 iteration of Gator Motorsports’ car, the F16, is built around a modiﬁ  ed Honda CBR600RR motorcycle engine. Weighing about 435 pounds when fully assembled, the car can go from 0 to 60 miles per hour in about 3.5 seconds. One of its most advanced features is a race-grade anti-lock braking system. The F16 is the only SAE car in North America to have such a system, Thomas said.FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-11-15-20-2
"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    3-24-10-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
2/2 Las Pampas TOWNHOME for sale. Bedroom on the first floor has tile flooring with access via sliding doors to a patio that is fenced for privacy. 2nd bedroom which is carpeted is located upstairs. 77k Call Theresa 407-462-8695    3-15-16-5-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGot a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N    3-11-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 12 Autos 9 BicyclesFRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!! Sell Your 
Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast! Running or Not. Nationwide Free Towing. Same Day Pick-Up And Pay Available: Call 888-689-8647    3-11-1-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-11-16-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shits available, 1-9 p.m., 
Mon - Fri, Weekend hours vary. 15-20 hrs per 
week. Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    
3-11-16-5-14
Mature responsible adult with education, mu-
sic, or art orientation for day learning com-panion for teen. Own car and references. Email jdcschool@yahoo.com    3-11-16-5-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
M & C Army Surplus is hiring. 25 + hours per 
week. Firearm + Retail Exp. Required. Apply in Person to 626 NW 13th St    3-7-16-3-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    3-11-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On BonusLove your $60K+ Job!We Put Drivers First! Pet & RiderAvg $1200 WeeklyCDL-A Req- (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    3-11-1-14
CUSTOMER SERVICE/ HELP DESK SPECIALIST! Online career training gets you the skills you need now! COMPANIES HIRING OUR GRADS! Call for details! HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! 1-888-926-6058    3-11-1-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
FINALLY! A Weight Loss Program Just For Teens. Lose weight for GOOD with the “World’s BEST Weight Loss Program EVER!” Results Guaranteed “Or Your Money Back” Here’s How It Works! www.skinnynhot.com    3-10-16-1-16
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    3-11-1-16
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's track and ﬁ  eld teams 
will compete in the NCAA Indoor Championships starting tonight. Read the story on pg. 14Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Maria T orres named SEC Women's Golfer of the Week
The junior's score of ﬁ  ve over par at this past weekend's SunTrust Gator In-
vitational was good enough to place her in a tie for ﬁ  fth individually and led the  No. 8 Gators to a win in the tournament. THE GATORS WILL PLAY 
TOP-SEEDED TEXAS A&M 
THIS AFTERNOON AT 1.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Florida isn’t done just yet.
A season-high 18 points 
from Kasey Hill and a gritty performance by the injured John Egbunu led eighth-seeded Florida to a 68-61 win over No. 9 seed Arkansas on Thursday afternoon in the second round of the Southeastern Conference Tournament in Nashville.
Both teams struggled shoot-
ing the ball — the Gators went 21-of-54 (38.9 percent) from 
the field while the Razorbacks 
shot 22-of-61 (36.1 percent) — but Florida (19-13) made shots late when it counted to seal the victory. 
Arkansas cut Florida’s lead 
to 60-59 late in the second half, but a layup by Hill, two made free throws each by Dorian Finney-Smith and KeVaughn Allen, and a Devin Robinson slam dunk helped the Gators pull away.
“We did enough the second 
half defensively, stepped up and made a few big shots to get us that first win,” UF coach Mike White said. Hill’s 18 points led the way 
for Florida on offense and Finney-Smith added 13 points — all in the second half — along with nine rebounds. Eg-bunu, playing with a torn liga-ment in his right thumb, made all three of his field-goal at-tempts and scored eight points to go along with nine rebounds. 
“Unbelievable,” White said 
of the injured Egbunu’s effort. “I’m not shocked, but I’m re-ally surprised that he played that well.”
Coming off the bench, Eg-
bunu wasn’t expected to play many minutes, if any at all. In 24 minutes, he made 2-of-3 free throws, dove for loose balls and dunked twice with a large brace on his right hand.
“Throughout the course of 
the game, the pain was mild,” Egbunu said of his thumb. “Apart from a few times when I dove on the floor and kind of hit it pretty bad. But apart from that… it was bearable.”
For the Razorbacks (16-16), 
Dusty Hannahs scored a career-high 33 points, but the rest of Arkansas’ offense was cold. 
Moses Kingsley, the team’s 
leading scorer (16.1 points per game), scored just 10 points on 4-of-12 shooting but grabbed a game-high 14 rebounds. 
Aside from Hannahs and 
Kingsley, the Razorbacks shot 
UF advances to SEC Tourney quarterﬁ  nals with win over Arkansas
AP Photo
Kasey Hill goes up for a layup during Florida's 68-61 win against Arkansas in the second round of the 
Southeastern Conference T ournament on Thursday in Nashville, T ennessee. 
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
JUST SOME HACK
Clear your schedule.
Cancel those din-
ner plans.
Tonight, you 
need to be inside the 
O’Connell Center to witness 
one of the greatest athletes in 
Florida history compete one 
final time.
The UF gymnastics team 
hosts North Carolina at 6:45 p.m. in its regular season finale, a meet that means 
relatively little in the grand scheme of 
the Gators’ hopes of a fourth-consecu-tive national title.
But while there isn’t much on the line 
for Florida, there’s a lot on the line for you.
That’s because unless you plan on 
driving over 15 hours to see a postsea-son meet, tonight is your last chance to 
see senior Bridget Sloan compete in per-
son.
Not just this season.Not just in her collegiate 
career.
Ever.
There isn’t a professional 
league for gymnasts to con-
tinue their careers — al-though Sloan would be the 
sure-fire No. 1 pick if there 
were one — so this is it for Sloan’s life as a gymnast.
And what a career it has been.For the sake of space, let’s just look 
at her time at Florida — ignoring the ear-ly part of her gymnastics career that in-cluded a silver medal in the 2008 Olym-pics.
You may think it’s an overstatement 
to call her one of the greatest athletes in UF history, but her impact on the pro-gram has been beyond what this column can articulate.
I’ll try, though.Come witness Sloan's greatness one last time
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
 
The No. 1 Florida baseball team may have 
just one loss 15 games into the season, but its 
last few wins haven’t been as convincing as coach Kevin O’Sullivan would like.
Boiled down, Florida isn’t scoring enough 
runs.
UF barely hung on to a 5-4 lead over North 
Florida on Wednesday, as the Ospreys were a hit away from tying the game in the ninth inning.
On Tuesday night, the two teams were tied 
at 2-2 until the Gators manufactured four runs in the eighth inning.
“I think what’s happening is we’re hit-
ting too many ﬂ  y balls,” O’Sullivan said after Wednesday’s win. “Our swings are getting too big on those 2-1, 3-1 counts.”
While O’Sullivan was happy that his play-
ers aren’t striking out much, he said they need to hit the ball on a line and up the middle of the ﬁ  eld more often.More speciﬁ  cally, he was addressing the 
less powerful hitters.
“JJ and Pete, those types of guys, they 
have that type of power,” he said. “But a lot of our other guys need to stay in the middle 
of the ﬁ  eld and simplify it a little bit.”
The plate approach ad-
justments are one thing to look out for as Florida be-gins a three-game weekend series with Harvard (2-2) 
tonight at 7 in McKethan Stadium, its ﬁ  nal weekend set before Southeastern 
Conference play begins.
The last time the Crimson and Gators met 
was in 2006. Florida swept that series by a combined score of 39-14.
The series will also mark back-to-back 
weekends UF has played an Ivy League 
school, after the Gators swept Dartmouth last 
weekend.No. 1 Florida hosts Harvard, 
looks to correct hitting woes
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15O'Sullivan
Graham Hack
twitter: @graham_hack2414   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
Staff Report
Gymnastics team’s seniors hoping to 
go out on top
For the No. 2 Florida Gators gymnas-
tics program, tonight’s meet against North 
Carolina concludes another regular season slate. 
But for a quartet of senior athletes, it 
means exponentially more. 
Taking the O’Connell Center mat for 
the ﬁ  nal time in their collegiate careers 
at 6:45 p.m., Bridget Sloan, Bridgette Ca-
quatto, Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto and Morgan Frazier will be hoping to ride off into the sunset with another home victory in tow. 
Owning a collective 26 All-America se-
lections, four All-SEC honors and a 2013 Honda Award, the 2016 senior class has left an indelible mark on the team’s his-
tory, aiding in the Gators’ back-to-back-
to-back National Championship streak. 
And, if all goes as planned, tonight’s 
showdown will springboard them into contention for a fourth consecutive title. 
“I think it’s just a moment where you 
get another opportunity to do your best,” Sloan said. “And, especially with the crowd that we have, I think it’s going to 
be an absolutely incredible, incredible 
time.”
Softball faces Auburn, Walton seeks 
700th win
When the No. 1 Gators (24-0) visit 
No. 3 Auburn (22-1) for a weekend series starting tonight, the stakes will be a little higher than in a normal top-ﬁ  ve matchup. 
In addition to opening Southeastern 
Conference play, Florida head coach Tim Walton is eyeing his 700th career win. 
At the helm of the program since 2006, 
Walton currently has a .791 career win-ning percentage, good enough for fourth-
highest among active coaches and 13th of 
all time. 
However, standing in the way of Wal-
ton’s milestone is an Auburn team that won the 2015 Southeastern Conference Tournament but is still bitter after Florida dashed its championship dreams in the Women’s College World Series semi-ﬁ  nals last May. 
Lacrosse takes win streak, momen-
tum into Boston College game
After a pair of road wins against top-10 
opponents last week, the No. 2 Florida la-crosse team (7-0) rides a wave of momen-tum into its home match against No. 15 Boston College (4-2) at 6:30 p.m.
The Gators and Eagles have never faced 
off against each other, but Boston College will arrive at Donald R. Dizney Stadium with a 7-6 overtime loss on Feb. 27 to No. 4 Louisville under its belt.
Men’s tennis looks to rebound from 
tough losses
No. 25 Florida (6-4, 1-1 SEC), fresh off 
a loss to Texas A&M, hosts the No. 64 Au-
burn Tigers (8-5, 0-2 SEC) at 5 p.m. at the 
Ring Tennis Complex.
UF hasn’t had much trouble against 
Auburn in recent history, winning seven of the last eight matches against its SEC rival dating back to 2010. This season, the Tigers are 0-4 against opponents ranked in the top 50, while UF has yet to lose against a team not in the top 30.Weekend Roundup  TRACK AND FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Two days separate Florida’s track and ﬁ  eld 
teams from a potential NCAA Indoor National Championship.
The women’s team, which enters the com-
petition carrying the No. 1 ranking, came in 
fourth in last year’s outing, which was their 
third top-four ﬁ  nish since 2010. However, the team hasn’t won it all since 1992.
This year, though, the women won’t settle 
for anything less than ﬁ  rst.
“I am looking forward to claiming a nation-
al title,” senior Shayla Sanders said. “It will be my ﬁ  rst time being at the top of the ranking. I want to keep a positive mindset and go out and run like I have been doing.”
Sanders enters the meet as the only Gator 
with a nation-leading time, hers coming in the 60-meter dash. 
“My expectations not just for me period, but 
as a team ... is for all of us to go out there and 
put our heart in everything that we do, put as 
many points on the board,” Sanders said. “For me, I just want to have a perfect race. I want to make sure my form is right, my block and my start. As soon as I get that right, I will be good.”
Sanders, along with fellow seniors Kyra Jef-
ferson and Robin Reynolds, will also be rep-resenting Florida in the 400 meter dash. If all three make the ﬁ  nal, it would be only the sev-
enth time that has happened since 1999.
Jefferson could also become the ﬁ  rst Divi-
sion I women’s competitor since 2005 (Hazel Ann Regis, LSU) to score in both the 200- and 
400-meter dashes. 
“(Jefferson) is very important. They are 
all important,” UF coach Mike Holloway said. “We don’t pinpoint or put pressure on one spe-ciﬁ  c person. Anyone who puts on a Gator uni-form this week is important.”
The men’s team enters ranked third nation-
ally and boasts a 4x400 relay team that has high expectations. The last time the men won the NCAA Indoor Championship was 2012, and they have the potential to capture their fourth title this weekend.
The 4x400 relay team — made up of seniors 
Arman Hall and Najee Glass, redshirt junior Eric Futch and freshman Kunle Fasasi — set 
the nation-leading time of 3:04.02 at the SEC 
Indoor Championships and gave Florida its ﬁ  rst 4x400 title since 2010. 
“I would say our dedication and hard 
work,” Glass said on what makes this year’s team special. “I just cannot wait to see every-one’s hard work in the Fall pay off.”
Hall also has the opportunity to become the 
ﬁ  rst Division I men’s competitor since 1999 to 
score in both the 200 and 400 meters at two dif-
ferent NCAA Indoor Championships. He previ-ously accomplished the feat in 2014, when he took fourth in the 200 and third in the 400.
Competition begins at 6:20 p.m. in Birming-
ham, Alabama, with KeAndre Bates in the men’s long jump, and continues into Saturday.
@Lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org Florida heading to NCAA 
Indoors with  title aspirationsFRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
just 6-of-26 from the field. 
Florida’s bench outscored Ar-kansas’ 28-5.
“It was fun in hindsight,” 
Hannahs said of his career day, “but it isn’t anymore.”
With the loss, Arkansas was 
eliminated from the SEC Tour-nament while the Gators ad-vanced to the quarterfinals in Nashville. It was a game Flori-da desperately needed to win in order to stay in the hunt for an NCAA Tournament berth. 
The Gators will take a more 
challenging step toward that goal Friday at 1 p.m. when 
they face off against No. 1-seed 
Texas A&M.
“You can’t do something 
special in a tournament like this, obviously, unless you win the first one,” White said, “and we took care of business.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13 White: 'W e 
took care of 
business 'There have been 31 perfect 
10s in school history.
Sloan has seven, more than 
any other gymnast, and she’s 
the only gymnast in UF histo-ry to post a perfect 10 in each event.
She has eight of the top 16 
all-around scores in school his-tory.
She has 23 all-around titles, 
good for third in school history, 
and she has a chance to pass 
the record of 27 by the end of the postseason.
The biggest two numbers 
of all, however, are zero and three. The first is the number of national titles Florida had won prior to Sloan’s arrival in Gainesville, and the second 
is how many the program has 
won since, all in a row.
That’s no accident.With all due respect to former 
coach Rhonda Faehn and all the talented gymnasts who helped capture those three crowns, the Gators aren’t national champi-ons without Sloan.
Florida was a program on the 
cusp, an annual contender that didn’t have quite what it took to beat the perennial powers in 
the sport.
But Sloan changed that, both 
through her performance on the 
competition floor and her lead-ership off of it.
And in the process, she 
changed the perception of the program itself and made it pos-sible to bring in the best gym-nasts from around the country 
to carry on the championship 
pedigree that she's leaving be-hind.
So show up tonight.Watch her elegance on the 
bars and her power on floor one more time.
Who knows, you might be 
lucky enough to witness anoth-er perfect 10.
One thing is for sure, though 
— you’ll be witnessing some-
thing you won’t soon see again.
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.orgCOLUMN,  from pg 13
Because Florida has kept its games close 
as of late, including the UNF wins and its two 
ﬁ  nal wins over Dartmouth, O’Sullivan hasn’t been able to substitute players who don’t see as much time as starters.
“When it’s a two-run game or one-run 
game, you kind of handcuff what you can do with your bench,” he said. “So we need to do a better job at separating ourselves and having better at-bats.”
A series with a weaker team like Harvard 
should provide O’Sullivan with the opportu-nity to get more guys playing time and experi-ence, which is key with Southeastern Confer-ence play starting next weekend.
Although four games is a relatively small 
sample size, Harvard is off to a slow start of-fensively, which should bode well for UF pitch-ers. As a team, the Crimson have mustered a .252 average and .294 on-base percentage. In 
comparison, Florida is hitting .292 and has 
reached base at a .391 clip.
Led by juniors Logan Shore and A.J. Puk 
and sophomore Alex Faedo, the Gators’ staff will look to stiﬂ  e Harvard’s hitters with the strikeout. Florida leads the NCAA with 156 strikeouts and ranks ninth in the country with 10.2 whiffs per nine innings.
UF’s three aforementioned starters have to-
taled a 6-1 record to accompany a 1.63 earned run average. In their 49.2 innings, they’ve notched 60 strikeouts and 11 free passes, while allowing an opponent batting average of .175.
Shore (3-0) is scheduled to start tonight, 
while Puk is slated for Saturday’s matchup and Faedo for Sunday’s contest. 
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Florida's trio of weekend starters is 6-1 with a combined 1.63 ERA
Bridget Sloan performs her ﬂ  oor routine during Florida's 
loss to LSU on Feb. 26 in the O'Connell Center. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz walks back to the dugout after striking out in the ﬁ  rst inning of Florida's 5-4 win against North Florida on Wednesday at McKethan Stadium. 
“With all due 
respect to Rhonda 
Faehn and all the 
talented gymnasts 
who helped capture 
those three crowns, 
the Gators aren't 
national champions 
without Sloan.”16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2016
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Senior Brianna Morgan has 
found herself in the same situation 
a few times this season: A third set 
in the last match.
One was against Southern Cali-
fornia, where she came out on top. 
Another was against California, 
where she came up just short.
This third set was different. Flori-
da had already won the dual match, but for the ﬁ  rst time this season for 
Morgan, it went to a tiebreaker.
What ensued was a hard-fought, 
heavily contested match point that saw Morgan come out on top as the 
No. 18 Florida (8-2) women’s ten-
nis team defeated No. 19 Kentucky (11-3) 6-1 on Thursday at the Ring Tennis Complex.
“At the end there, there were just 
two great athletes going after it, and team score at that point mattered very little to either one of them,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “You 
saw two players who really, really 
wanted to win.”
But for the ﬁ  rst time this season, 
Florida dropped the doubles point.
The Kentucky duo of Mami Ada-
chi and Aldila Sutjiadi kicked things off for Kentucky, defeating the No. 7 tandem of sophomore Brooke Aus-
tin and junior Kourtney Keegan 6-1.
The doubles match between 
No. 22 sophomore Josie Kuhlman 
and junior Belinda Woolcock and Kentucky’s Akva Parazinskaite and Morgan Chumney was back-and-forth early on. After the score was tied at 3-3, Parazinskaite and Chum-
ney took the next two games to go 
up 5-3. Despite winning the next game, UF couldn’t hold on, drop-ping the set 6-4 and giving Ken-tucky a 1-0 lead.Florida then swept singles play.No. 37 Keegan dominated Nadia 
Ravita, defeating the Wildcat 6-2, 6-0 to tie the score at 1-1. 
The start of No. 108 Kuhlman’s 
match against Chumney was close, as neither side could get an edge. After the score was tied at three, Kuhlman took three of the next four games to take the ﬁ  rst set 6-4. 
The second set was all Josie, as 
she went on to defeat Chumney 6-1 and give the Gators a 2-1 lead.
Junior Spencer Liang got the 
start against Adachi, and she came out strong.
She gave Florida a 3-1 lead with 
a 6-3, 6-0 victory, leaving Florida one point away from picking up the win. 
That point would come from No. 
5 Woolcock, as she kept control of 
her match from the start to win 6-4, 
6-3.
After winning the ﬁ  rst set 6-2, 
No. 15 Austin was taken to the brink in the second set in her game. 
And in a set that saw three ties and 
a tiebreaker, Kentucky’s Justina Milkuskyte took set two 7-6.
In the ﬁ  nal set, Austin opened up  
a 4-0 lead and held on to it, giving the Gators a 5-1 lead overall. 
Morgan dropped the ﬁ  rst set of 
her match against Parazinskaite 6-4. But she would bounce back strong 
in the second, taking it 6-1.
The third set, though, was a dif-
ferent story.
Finding herself down 5-1, Mor-
gan wouldn’t go down easily. She 
worked from near defeat to even up the score at 6-6.
In a tiebreaker where neither 
player could take a solid lead, Mor-
gan used everything she had left, in-
cluding some key returns, to get the late edge over Parazinskaite to win the match 4-6, 6-1, 7-6 and secure 
the singles sweep.
The Gators take the court again 
Saturday against No. 5 Vanderbilt at 
1 p.m. at the Ring Tennis Complex. 
@DreilingerJake 
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFlorida cruises to win over Kentucky behind strong singles play
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brianna Morgan returns a serve during Florida’s win against USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Com-
plex. 
