We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 88 TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
Chiozza adjusted to 
starting role for Florida
UF is 7-4 since the guard took 
over,  pg. 13
Research Roundup
Food diseases, weather and DNA, pg. 3
Comedians prep to tickle funny bones
T enth annual improv festival is this week, pg. 5New year, new trees
The Jewish community celebrated Tu B’Shevat. Check out the story and photo story, pg. 9
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
SURPRISE SINGERS
A semicircle of singing friends surprise Abigail Huelsman, a 19-year-old UF microbiology and cell 
science freshman, outside of Marston Science Library on Monday afternoon. Cara Walkover, a 20-year-old wildlife ecology and conservation junior, led the group of singers, and she said they sang to Huelsman because they love her.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Paul Rudd is speaking at UF next month.
Rudd will speak at 8 p.m. on Feb. 1 at the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center. Accent Speaker’s 
Bureau is paying Rudd and the moderator, 
Dave Itzkoff, a New York Times culture report-er, a combined $90,000. Rudd will talk about his experiences as an actor.
Accent and the Jewish Student Union are 
hosting the event. No tickets are required for entry.
Doors will open at 7 p.m., said Stephanie 
Ursitti, the vice chair of promotions for Accent. They expect to have enough seating for all who 
attend, but students and Gainesville residents 
should expect long lines.Ursitti said Accent has 
had Rudd’s appearance 
in the works for a couple 
months. Students have re-
quested him to come speak.
“We know that this is 
something people are inter-ested in,” she said.
Rudd played Scott Lang 
in “Ant-Man.” He has also starred in “Anchor-man: The Legend of Ron Burgundy,” “Anchor-
man 2: The Legend Continues,” “Knocked Up,” “This Is 40,” “Role Models,” “The 40-Year-Old 
Virgin” and “Clueless.”
Wesley Huffman, a UF telecommunication 
senior, said he’s excited to see Rudd speak. He said he hopes Rudd gives advice to aspiring ac-tors like him.
“The life of an actor isn’t the most glam-
orous thing, but Paul Rudd has made it,” the 21-year-old said.
@ceoostroff 
costroff@alligator.org‘Ant-Man’ actor Paul Rudd to speak at UF
THE CAUSE OF DEATH 
IS UNKOWN.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A human skeleton was found Sunday after-
noon in a pine-tree forest just off Millhopper 
Road.
At about 4:45 p.m. Sunday, deputies with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce received a call from the man who found the full skeleton, at which point they began an investigation, said Art Forgey, the spokesman for the ofﬁ  ce.
The news was released Monday in a press 
release. The skeleton’s age, sex and cause of death remain unknown, Forgey said.
Several pieces of evidence were found at the 
scene, but they were not disclosed. On Mon-day, deputies scanned through missing-person ﬁ  les in search of leads, Forgey said.“They will also then expand that toward the 
state, around the nation, until we get some type of ID,” he said.
Deputies are working with the District 8 
Medical Examiner’s Ofﬁ  ce and UF’s C.A. Pound 
Human Identiﬁ  cation Laboratory, according to 
the release. On the other side of the thick forest, Robert Malinowski was walking his Golden Re-triever when he ﬁ  rst heard the news Monday.
Malinowski, a 59-year-old visual arts profes-
sor at Santa Fe College, said he wondered what the cause of death could be.
“It could have been a hunting accident; it 
could have been who knows,” he said.
Malinowski, who has lived in the neighbor-
hood for about 15 years, said the news would 
likely stir up homeowners in the area.
“The word will probably get out now around 
the neighborhood,” he said.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgHuman remains found in forest off Millhopper RoadBy Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Ishan Mandani loves his grand-
parents.
In 2008, he and his mother cre-
ated a program, Grandkids, to give 
others the opportunity to share the experiences of intergenerational conversations with others. He ran 
the program at Palm Harbor Uni-
versity High School in Palm Har-bor, Florida.
Now, he’s the vice president of 
the UF chapter of Grandkids. The 
club will have its ﬁ  rst meeting of 
the semester today at 6:30 p.m. at the Computer Science and Engi-neering building as an ofﬁ  cial UF 
club. Clubs must operate one year 
before they are ofﬁ  cial.
The club hopes to start getting 
funding from Student Government to get better speakers and do a charitable event this semester.
“This program is a life-trans-
forming experience,” the 19-year-old UF business sophomore said. “It may help you with your career, but it will also help you gain per-spective in the future.”
Mandani said he recruited 
members from his high school. One of his friends from high school, Chase Mallory, decided to 
implement the program on cam-
pus last Spring.
“When we got to college last 
year, we realized we could utilize campus and Shands,” the club’s 
president said.
Student volunteers in the orga-
nization gain clinical skills, such 
as conversing with others, from 
visiting with patients and special 
experiences from bonding with older individuals, the UF health Miss your grandparent? 
Adopt one with UF club  CAMPUS
SEE GRANDKIDS,  PAGE 4He will speak at UF on Feb. 1
Rudd
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
Words on Canvas is a yearly writing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art 
for college students interested 
in inspiring museumgoers by writing poetry or prose con-nected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College stu-dents are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will be awarded Harn merchandise, and students may submit until 
Feb. 21. This writing competi-
tion is a great opportunity for students to share their per-spectives on art so that they may inspire others to look at art in different and exciting ways. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more informa-tion, please visit our website at 
harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an 
Escape-to-Monte-Carlo-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature an escape room, obstacle course and ac-
robat show. The event will 
also feature two showings of the movie “Bridge of Spies” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free break-fast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Card. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate. Students can bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night
The Pride Community Center of North Central Florida will show “Coldwater” on Friday at 
7:30 p.m. “Coldwater” follows 
the story of Brad, a teenager abducted from his home in the middle of the night with his mother’s consent. He is taken to a harsh wilderness reform facility. The teen has no con-tact with the outside world, and the retired war colonel in 
charge prides himself on break-
ing an inmate’s spirit to cor-rect delinquent behavior. As we learn of the tragic events that led to Brad’s arrival at the camp, unforeseen circumstanc-es threaten to tear the already eroding reform facility apart. Brad is forced to confront not 
only his fellow inmates and the 
personnel in charge, but finally his own sense of what is right and what is wrong. Gay Movie Night is the last Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. A $2 do-nation is requested to cover the cost of snacks.
A Weekend of Improv
Looking for a way to help prevent interpersonal vio-lence but not sure how to get involved? Join UF’s Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine for a 
weekend of training in theater 
improv techniques to creative-ly impact culture around these important issues. No prior act-ing experience necessary; all majors and identities encour-aged to apply. The event is Saturday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 8 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Register at gatorwell.wu-
foo.com/forms/interact-inten-sive-training-registration-form or email jeffpuf@ufl.edu. 
Toastmasters Meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the entomology build-
ing, situated at 970 Natural 
Area Dr. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talking-gators.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a 
supportive and positive learn-
ing experience in which mem-bers are empowered to develop communication and leader-ship skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
National Society of Leadership 
and SuccessThe National Society of Leadership and Success is hosting its New Member Orientation on Feb. 20 to wel-come all of its members and get a head start on this semester’s activities. The National Society of Leadership and Success is 
the nation’s largest leadership 
honor society. Students are se-lected by their college for mem-bership based on a student’s academic standing or leader-ship potential. Candidacy is a nationally recognized achieve-ment of honorable distinction. With 509 chapters, the society 
currently has 557,056 mem-
bers nationwide. The society is an organization that helps people discover and achieve their goals. The society offers life-changing lectures from the nation’s leading present-ers and a community where like-minded, success-oriented individuals come together and help one another succeed. The society also serves as a power-ful force of good in the greater 
community by encouraging 
and organizing action to better the world.       
Latina Women’s League
The Latina Women’s League will host a free Bilingual Story Time event Saturday at 11 a.m. at the Library Partnership, 
situated at 1130 NE 16th Ave. 
For more information, contact info@latinawomensleague.org.
Apply Now for 2016-2017 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA 
as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal pro-cessor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results 
of your FAFSA to the UF Office 
for Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most – and best – aid. In order for the Office for Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a fi-
nancial aid package, you must 
be an admitted student and meet the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assis-tance completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser. For contact information, visit sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-
fore 5 p.m. Please model your 
submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 88
HIGH  72° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUPAndres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Mandy Moss, a 20-year-old UF mechanical and aerospace engineering junior, squeezes a stress ball as 
she donates blood in one of the LifeSouth buses on the Reitz Union North Lawn on Monday afternoon. UF is competing against the University of Kentucky to see who can collect the most blood as part of LifeSouth’s “What Colors Do You Bleed?” blood drive.
CAMPUS
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is trying to beat the Uni-
versity of Kentucky in the annual “What Colors Do You Bleed?” blood drive.
UF is competing against the col-
lege for the eighth year to raise the most blood. The competition start-ed Monday and will go through Friday. Donors for LifeSouth Com-munity Blood Centers get a free T-shirt and help save a life.
Bloodmobiles will be on cam-
pus from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sorority Row and Fraternity Row from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. every day.
There is a huge need for blood 
right now, said Laura Bialeck, a LifeSouth community development coordinator. During the holidays, donations drop and blood drives can be canceled. If centers don’t have enough blood, they can’t save all of the lives they might need to.
Their goal is to have 1,500 stu-
dents give blood in order to beat Kentucky and meet the current lo-cal hospital needs, she said.
“Last year, Kentucky beat us,” Bialeck said. “We were going neck and neck.”
It is essential to collect all blood 
types, but she said there is always a need for type O negative blood, 
the universal donor.
Corey Zallis, 19, said he has 
given blood eight times — in total, 
more than a gallon of his blood.
It’s an important thing to do, 
the UF information systems sopho-
more said.
“It doesn’t cost anything, ex-
cept blood, and maybe a little 
sweat and tears,” he said. UF hopes for 1,500 
student blood donors
UF professor researches foodborne 
diseases
A UF researcher has found that one in 10 people globally 
suffer from foodborne diseases.
Arie Havelaar, a UF professor who studies global food 
safety, said he has been studying 31 different disease-caus-
ing agents such as bacteria, viruses and chemicals for eight 
years. Foodborne diseases can make people sick and are 
more common than people realize, Havelaar said.
Havelaar said he hopes his study will educate people on 
how frequently foodborne illnesses occur. The 31 agents were selected from more than 200 bacteria and chemicals by seeking out which ones resulted in the most illnesses or deaths.
“We document about one out of every 10 people glob-
ally suffers from foodborne disease,” Havelaar said. “It is an 
important spectrum of diseases that needs to be effectively 
controlled.” He said he hopes the research helps combat the number of people who contract foodborne diseases.
“It means that governments need to give it priority, and 
everybody in the food industry needs to be aware that they are basically in control of the safety of the foods,” Havelaar said.
Havelaar said he also wants his research to help people 
when they are choosing food. The food they buy may carry 
disease-causing agents and should be prepared properly. 
The majority of foodborne illness affects children in low-income countries, such as those in Africa and Southeast Asia, Havelaar said. However, disease prevention should be enforced globally.
Prevention is necessary everywhere, even in places like 
the U.S. and Europe, Havelaar said.
- Maddie HaistOn-campus locations:
 The Hub
 Turlington Plaza
 Little Hall
 Gator Corner Dining Center
 Sorority Row
 Fraternity Row
Off-campus locations:
 Civitan Donor Center
 1221 NW 13th St.
 Newberry Road Donor Center
 4039 W. Newberry Road
Research suggests farmers should use 
10-day forecasts
In a study published in the journal Agricultural and For-
est Meteorology, researchers found that Australian wheat 
farmers who use a 10-day forecast had the best success in increasing crop yield.
Senthold Asseng, the lead author of the study and pro-
fessor of agricultural and biological engineering, started the study in Australia but moved to Gainesville ﬁ  ve years ago to continue his research at UF.
He said that when farmers reviewed short-term fore-
casts before making decisions about managing their crops, they had better success in the long term with the number of crops that could be harvested.
“You can change the management of crops based off 
this forecast and make more money from agriculture,” As-
seng said.
He said that expected proﬁ  ts from better crop yield will 
encourage farmers to look at weather 10 days in advance.
“I think Australia, when they become aware of this 
study, will change their practices,” Asseng said. “Money 
could be made from this knowledge.”
He used new technology to conduct his research, he 
said. This allowed him to combine simulation models to better understand the different effects that weather has on 
crops.
Asseng believes the next step in his research will be 
to replicate the study in new regions and hopes that new 
funding will allow him to continue his research in the southeastern U.S.
“This is a very important agricultural region,” he said, 
because of the high number of crops that can grow there.
- Meryl Kornﬁ  eldResearch shows DNA can be preserved 
in antifreeze, hand sanitizer
UF researchers have found that DNA can be preserved 
in materials such as antifreeze, which is used to lower the 
freezing point of water-based liquids, and hand sanitizer.
The study, published in the journal Invertebrate System-
atics, found that these cheaper and less dangerous materi-
als could make it possible for citizen scientists or scientists 
out in the ﬁ  eld to keep DNA specimens intact.
Andrea Lucky, an assistant research scientist for the 
study, said the researchers wanted scientists who lack pro-fessional tools to be able to collect and secure DNA samples.
Researchers used materials different from those typi-
cally used to preserve DNA, she said. Before this study, scientists used 95 percent ethanol or pure propylene glycol, which are both dangerous and expensive.
The DNA of ambrosia beetles was tested in the study, 
Lucky said. Researchers stored the insects in various medi-ums for about a week to see how well-preserved their DNA would be.
Lucky said she supervised the lab that Sedonia 
Steininger, the lead author of the study, used to complete her research. The researchers in the study also collaborated with a scientist in North Carolina.
The next step in this research is to ﬁ  gure out how long 
specimens can be preserved, she said.
“Short term preservation — about a week or so — works 
great,” she said.
Lucky said she hopes this will be a cheaper and easier 
way for scientists to collect and preserve samples.
“This opens the door for broader participation,” she 
said.
- Meryl Kornﬁ  eld4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
VOTERS MUST REGISTER WITH A 
POLITICAL PARTY BY FEB. 16.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF student political organizations are regis-
tering students to vote in Florida’s presidential 
primaries.
In Florida, voters must register with a politi-
cal party by Feb. 16 in order to vote in the pri-
maries, said Natalia Perez Santos, the director 
of outreach for UF College Democrats. The or-ganization hosted a training session Monday to teach students how to register others to vote.
“Not a lot of students even know how to 
register,” said Perez Santos, a UF political sci-ence and history junior. “All they have to do is take two minutes to fill out the form.”College Democrats trained about 10 new 
volunteers Monday. She said the group regis-ters students on campus to vote while on Tur-lington Plaza every week Monday to Wednes-day.
“We register all people at our table, regard-
less of party affiliation,” the 20-year-old said. “We like to serve as a resource for the greater community on campus to be politically en-gaged.”
She said the College Democrats don’t offi-
cially endorse a specific candidate for the pri-maries.
She said the organization registered about 
10,000 people to vote in the 2012 presidential election and about 2,000 people for the 2014 midterms, which usually have lower voter turnouts.
“We hope to be able to register just as many as we have in the past,” Perez Santos said.
Richard El-Rassy, the UF College Republi-
cans chairman, said his organization is work-ing with the Republican Party of Florida to register students to vote. He said the organiza-tion registers students on campus about twice a month and during events such as debate-watching parties.
El-Rassy, a UF finance sophomore, said he 
is excited to register students to vote so they 
can exercise their right to elect leaders who 
represent students’ values.
“My first official act as chairman was to 
register all of my executive board members to vote in Alachua County,” the 19-year-old said.
El-Rassy said UF’s College Republicans do 
not endorse presidential candidates until after the primaries.
“As an organization, we’re not specifically supporting one candidate,” he said.
El-Rassy said the organization polls mem-
bers to determine which candidate has the most support among students.
“Currently, the Republican that has the 
largest support from our members is Marco Rubio,” he said.
The candidate with the next largest support 
among College Republicans was Ted Cruz, followed by Donald Trump, he said. He said 
despite who wins the primaries, the organiza-
tion’s goal is to get the best candidate into the presidential office.
“That’s the real driving point behind every-
thing,” El-Rassy said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org
Student organizations register voters before Florida primaries
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
REACHING FOR THE RING
Avery Jordan, a 21-year-old UF finance senior,  leaps to catch an Aerobie flying ring in front of 22-year-
old Mitch McNall, a fellow UF finance senior, on Norman Field on Monday afternoon. Jordan said he and his friends often tossed the ring on Norman Field after his friends got the ring for Christmas.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Muslim students learned about stress 
and how to control it Monday night.
The Islamic Center of Gainesville and 
Islam on Campus hosted Majed Mahmoud, 
a mechanical engineer, for an audience of about 30 students. Mahmoud spoke about the text of the Quran, telling students stress 
is inevitable and to remain calm when faced 
with it.
Asad Haroon, a 22-year-old UF biology 
senior, said he attended Mahmoud’s last speech in September 2014 and looked for-ward to the advice he would give.
“He is not only a student of Islam, he is 
also a professional,” Haroon said.
Mahmoud focused on the Arabic word 
“fitna,” which refers to the trials and tribu-lations an individual goes through in life.
“Your true colors appear when you go 
through a hardship,” he said, during the speech.
Mahmoud broke his speech into two 
parts, with a prayer in between. He focused 
on how students perceive and deal with ob-
stacles and the stress that comes with them.“I think he is a really great speaker,” 
said Rania Saboungi, a UF microbiology and cell science sophomore. “He knows how to 
reach out to the youth.”
Haroon said he related to the topic. With 
the stresses that come from being a student, 
he relieves the tension 
with prayer.
“Prayer is big,” he said. 
“It helps put everything back in perspective.”
Mahmoud told the 
room that the Muslims liv-ing today are being tested 
more than any generation before.
“People will be tested according to their 
commitment to their religion,” he said.
However, Saboungi said he felt that the 
audience didn’t need to be Muslim to relate to the message of the speech.
“Anyone practicing a religion or not can 
relate to this,” she said. “A lot of things he said are universal thoughts that make sense.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgStress in Muslim communityBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
A steady stream of students 
showed up to interview with Stu-dent Government parties Monday morning.
Erica Baker, UF supervisor of 
elections, said 147 students in-terviewed with an SG party, with 23 students interviewing for the Access Party and 124 students in-terviewing for the Impact Party.
Last Spring, 275 students in-
terviewed with an SG party on the second day of sign-up, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
Jamie Somerstein, 18, inter-
viewed with Impact for a sopho-more Senate seat. 
She said she chose Impact be-
cause she wants to make a differ-ence on campus.
“I wanted to make sure every 
student feels like they have an equal opportunity to change a lit-tle piece of this campus,” the UF public relations freshman said.
Peter Ong, 20, showed up in 
blue scrubs, using his few min-utes of spare time to interview with Access.
The UF food science and hu-
man nutrition junior interviewed for a seat in the College of Agri-cultural and Life Sciences. 
He said he helped campaign 
with the Swamp Party his fresh-man year but felt students in-volved with Greek life had an unfair advantage.
“My own personal values align 
with (Access’),” he said.
The final day of interviews 
takes place today at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgCandidates interview 
with SG parties
sciences sophomore said.
Mallory, 20, said he remembers visiting a 
polio patient named Willie this semester at 
Shands. After three hours together, he lis-
tened to Willie talk about his struggle of be-ing paralyzed from the neck down because of polio, which he has had since he was 17.
“He told me you always have to stay posi-
tive no matter what restrictions life puts on you,” Mallory said.
All the organization’s members go 
through formal training before they partici-
pate in the clinical work, he said.
“A really interesting aspect is that not a lot 
of people can just go into an assisted living 
facilities or hospital settings and form con-
nections with strangers,” Mallory said.
He said he expects this organization will 
help college students create bonds with older members of the community.
“College students become over involved 
in what they are doing and develop tunnel 
vision,” Mallory said. “You get to step back 
and talk to these people and learn life experi-
ences.”
Mandani said he doesn’t want the genera-
tion to be isolated. He wants UF students to learn from elders and the wisdom they have.
“We considered them family and they 
treated us like family,” Mandani said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGRANDKIDS,  from pg 1The club hopes for funding 
from Student Government
Mahmoud
“College students become over involved 
in what they are doing and develop 
tunnel vision. You get to step back and 
talk to these people and learn from life 
experiences.”
Chase Mallory  
20-year-old  UF health sciences sophomoreTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
More UF students will spend 
their Spring Break volunteering 
this semester than ever before.
The students will serve com-
munities throughout the U.S. 
and abroad through UF’s Cen-
ter for Leadership and Service’s Florida Alternative Breaks from Feb. 27 to March 5. 
The trips, which include 
food, transportation and hous-ing, cost between $100 and $1,400. They are student-led and engage participants in so-
cial issues through hands-on 
volunteering opportunities over school breaks.
Students can go on domestic 
or international trips ranging from a weekend to a full week, Joshua Funderburke, the cen-ter’s executive director, said. 
He didn’t expect so many 
spots to go so quickly. Of the 156 students the center can take, 116 have already signed up as of press time, he said. 
“This is by far our best year 
for sign-ups,” Funderburke said. “There’s only about 40 spots left and people are coming in every day to sign up for them.”
Students can sign up until 
Feb. 12, unless the program fills up before that.
“These trips are trying to 
push people out of their comfort zone,” he said. “It’s all about education, service and reflec-tion.”The trips are kept small, with 
eight to 12 students on each, Funderburke said. This allows students to bond with one an-
other.
Students will volunteer in 
places such as Nicaragua, Costa 
Rica and the southeastern U.S. 
Lucy Toman, a UF industrial 
and systems engineering junior, said she has already been on two FAB trips, one of them dur-ing Spring Break.
“Community service is a 
mindset,” Toman said. “It’s a way to live your life, not just something you do on a Sunday.”
While on a trip to Atlanta two 
years ago, she worked with fifth-grade teachers to merge a public and a charter school, since there wasn’t enough demand for both 
and each served students of dif-
ferent backgrounds, the 21-year-old said.
This Spring the trips will 
cover topics such as women’s empowerment, community de-velopment, education inequity 
and environmental issues.
“It’s not just a week-long 
trip,” Toman said. “This pro-
gram can have an effect on you 
that lasts your entire college ca-
reer.”Students to 
volunteer across U.S. for Spring BreakCLASSES WILL BE HELD UNTIL 
THE GRANT MONEY RUNS OUT.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Contributing Writer
It all started with teamwork and a grant.
On Nov. 4, the UF Medical Guild award-
ed the Helping Hands Clinic of Gainesville 
$2,400 to use for anti-tobacco treatment. Now, Cathy Cook is about two weeks into 
her monthly “Quit Smoking Now” class.
Cook, a certified tobacco specialist, is the 
lead system change coordinator for the Su-
wannee River Area Health Education Cen-ter. In collaboration with Helping Hands, 
she provides students with a mixture of ed-
ucation and nicotine replacement therapy.
“These are the people we need to offer 
our services to: people who are homeless, 
or near homeless, yet really addicted,” she 
said.  
Seven people participated in the Novem-
ber class. When the program ended, five 
students had dramatically decreased their tobacco use and three others remained to-
bacco-free after the class, Cook said.“Big Mike” Powell smoked a pack or 
more every day for 38 years before joining 
the program. 
After completing the first class, he was 
awarded a bike that he now uses as his only form of transportation.
He decided to come back in January — 
this time to set an example.
“My daughter still smokes,” he said. “I 
blame myself pretty much for that. I smoked around her while she was growing up.”
Powell is currently unemployed and said 
he considers himself homeless.
“I have a roof over my head, but that’s 
about it,” he said.
Since completing Cook’s class, Powell 
smokes three to four cigarettes per week, sometimes stopping for up to 10 days.
“I think the best part of class is that ev-
eryone gets to share their own experiences, and a lot of them touch home,” he said.
Cook said she plans to hold the monthly 
classes for new and returning students until 
she runs out of grant money.
“The thing about tobacco addiction is 
that it’s just like any other addiction, except 
maybe worse,” she said.Anti-smoking classes offer support to homeless population
By Felicia Solazzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the sixth year in a row, sher-
iff’s deputies will join the community 
for barbecue and horse riding.
The Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office is holding its annual Cops Against Cancer Trail Ride on Satur-day, Feb. 20. Tickets are $25 in ad-vance and $30 on the event date.
Deputy Perry Koon said all pro-
ceeds go to the Climb for Cancer Foundation. He also said the event is funded by local businesses rather than ticket sales. 
“We’ve been blessed to do that up 
to this point, and hopefully we can continue,” he said.
Ron and Dianne Farb started the 
Climb for Cancer Foundation in 2003. They supported cancer research through Ron’s mountain climbing. He climbed the highest mountains on five continents and raised more than 
$1.5 million for the foundation’s pro-
grams, according to its website.
“We have been partners with 
them ever since, and we love them to death,” Koon said.
Koon said 40 riders registered the 
first year, and 102 riders registered last year.
Looking forward, Dianne hopes 
even more riders will come to enjoy the trail rides, barbecue, music and raffles.
She said some of the money goes 
to Harriet’s Helping Hand, another program founded by the Farbs to pro-vide cancer patients with gas cards, food vouchers and housing.
Check-in begins at 8:30 a.m. at 
the Ranger Station Area, located at 12720 NW 109th Lane in Alachua, adjacent to the main entrance. Park rangers and the ACSO Rural Park Services will lead the ride at 10 a.m.
Koon said that the event would 
not be successful without commu-nity support.
“There’s no way I can sit here and 
name the number of people that help make this event possible,” he said. Saddle up and ride with deputiesCourtesy to the Alligator
Pictured are “Big Mike, ” a graduate of the “Quit Smoking Now” classes held at the 
Helping Hands Clinic, and Cathy Cook, the “Quit Smoking Now” program coordina-tor. “Big Mike” was awarded a bicycle for completing the program.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Comedians from Gainesville and across the U.S will 
perform improv for four days during the 10th annual 
Gainesville Improv Festival in one location, unlike past years.
Individuals and groups will perform twice a night 
from Wednesday to Saturday at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts in the Squitieri Studio Theatre, said Skyler Stone, an organizer for the event. In past years, the first two nights were held at High Dive, a bar in downtown Gainesville. About 24 troupes will perform, with four in Theatre Strike Force, a UF student improvi-sation group.
Tickets cost $11 for the public and $8 for students for 
Wednesday and Thursday’s shows. Friday and Saturday 
tickets cost $15 for the public and $12 for students.
Stone said he started the festival with his friend Tom 
O’Donnell. They are both UF alumni and were involved 
in Theatre Strike Force.
“It really had a large impact on our lives,” Stone, 38, 
said. “We really wanted to do something to showcase Gainesville.”
Stone, who graduated from UF in 2001, said he likes 
watching new acts from around Florida. The state didn’t 
originally have that many troupes, but that has changed, 
he said.“We’re always excited to see the improv scene across 
the state grow and thrive,” he said. “We take a pinch of the credit.”
Stone said he hopes the festival makes people excited 
to watch comedy.  
“There’s an air of magic,” he said. “You kind of are in 
awe. It’s a spectacle.”
Kira Silverman, Theatre Strike Force’s president, said 
about 20 members from the organization are performing in four different groups during the festival.
The 22-year-old said she enjoys the festival because it 
gives her the chance to meet new people.
“You wouldn’t really think that Gainesville has a re-
ally big comedy scene,” the UF psychology senior said. “It’s a whole community of people coming together to do improv in one city, and it’s awesome.”
Mark Kendall is traveling from Atlanta to perform his 
one-man show titled “The Magic Negro and Other Black-ness” in Gainesville for the first time.
He said he performs because he likes the simplicity of 
comedy. He said his show has topics that make people uneasy, such as race relations and racial profiling, but he 
wants to make the audience laugh.
“If it goes well, you can get a reaction from someone 
even if they disagree with what you throw at them,” he 
said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgComedians prep to tickle funny bones  CAMPUS
“These trips are trying to 
push people out of their 
comfort zones.”
Joshua Funderburke  
Center’s executive director  The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnResponsibilities, 
drinking and the 
codiﬁ  cation of 
decision-making
On “The Perfect Kiss,” Bernard Sumner of New Order 
sings, “I have always thought about/Staying here and going out/Tonight I should have stayed at home… I said ‘let’s go out and have some fun.’” Besides be-longing to the ﬁ  nest song ever released by the Man-
chester, England-based rock band, these seemingly nonsensical and contradictory lyrics speak to a dilemma faced by nearly all college students possessing both a taste for the nightlife and a desire to bring home a degree: staying in or going out?
We’ve all heard or are intimately familiar with the innumer-
able cautionary tales: the overprotected young man who went too hard, too quickly after his ﬁ  rst taste of freedom from home; the sorority girl who discovered just how many free drinks can be earned purely on the premise of being attractive; the gaggle 
of freshmen who could never quite “beat the clock.” These sto-
ries exist because there are far too many realities disturbingly close to them. Unfortunately, many students do drop out of UF after being unable to successfully balance the demands of the academic pursuit and the quest for epicurean fulﬁ  llment at the bottom of a bottle. Although we have consistently proven to have one of the best graduation rates in the nation, an ideal world would see everyone who walks in as a Gator, leave as a Gator.
But we digress. For those of us who are still — and will 
hopefully remain — here, the decision remains difﬁ  cult, com-plicated by nuances unique to one’s obligations, and above all else, class standing. The internal dialogue held by a fresh-man mulling over venturing out to Balls is very different from that of the senior looking to belt karaoke at The Backyard on a Monday evening. The freshman is worried about appear-ances and not vomiting all over his or her randomly selected roommate’s shower curtain. In contrast, the senior, at least the 
semi-responsible permutation, is concerned about making sure 
his or her end of the group project will be ﬁ  nished in time to overhaul his or her resume at a relatively early hour. Should that work out, then maybe, just maybe, if he or she ﬁ  nishes the freelance work that might translate into a full-time job at his or her dream publication, the senior will be able to go out and show off that killer rendition of “Promiscuous Girl” he or she has been promising his or her friends for weeks.
As simple as the contrast between these two scenarios may 
appear, it isn’t that straightforward. Yes, freshmen usually have less responsibilities to attend to: That’s a pretty uncontro-versial stance. However, their time spent not managing twenty things at once is gearing them up for the time when they will. By the same token, it is critical that seniors make time in their schedules to not only let off steam, but enjoy what little time they have left being a college student in Gainesville.
As inane as it sounds, mastering the juggling act between 
hedonism and furthering one’s ambitions is one of the most im-
portant lessons college will impart. Upon graduation, the stakes 
are raised, and the decisions become more difﬁ  cult. Choosing to get a “B” and a hangover over an “A” and a clear conscience is much easier than weighing ﬁ  nancial security against happi-ness. For now, we’re happy to take the hangover.
“Making a Murderer”: vigilante or voyeuristic?
Like so many college students with a Net-ﬂ  ix subscription and a tendency to pro-crastinate, I devoured all 10 episodes of “Making a Murderer” within the course of four days. The hype surrounding the 
series was unavoidable, and after a fervent recommendation from a close friend, I hap-pily shirked all responsibilities and dove in. As a courtesy spoiler alert, anyone who has exhibited the self-control to avoid the show and doesn’t want to know how it ends, avert your eyes.
Following the massive success of the true-crime pod-
cast “Serial,” “Making a Murderer” similarly follows the 
2007 conviction of Steven Avery involving the murder 
of 25-year-old photographer Teresa Halbach. The series is largely driven by Avery’s troubled relationship with the Manitowoc County Sheriff’s Department, depict-ing his wrongful 1985 conviction for a separate crime, subsequent exoneration by DNA evidence, $36 million lawsuit against the sheriff’s department and 2005 arrest. All of this sets the scene for the Halbach murder trial and Avery’s defense that the sheriff’s department plant-
ed evidence to implicate him. Throw in a seemingly co-
erced confession of rape and murder from Steven Avery’s learning-disabled nephew Brendan Dassey, and you’ve got a whirlwind of a case. The series ends with both de-fendants found guilty, sentenced to life in prison and out of appeals.
Despite the series totaling a mere 10 hours, the over-
whelming amount of evidence, testimonies and trial pro-cedures makes it feel as though you’ve spent months 
analyzing the case from every possible angle. But you 
haven’t, and it seems as though many viewers have for-gotten that. The widespread outcry against Avery and Dassey’s convictions has taken the form of social me-dia posts, news articles and most notably a petition with nearly 500,000 signatures asking for a presidential par-don. A healthy amount of skepticism toward the judicial system is crucial, yet it’s apparent that the series’ ﬁ  lm-makers neglected any real consideration that its protagonists may be guilty.
The New Yorker raised the issue of relying 
on an independent investigation “bound by no rules of procedure, answerable to nothing but 
ratings, shaped only by the ethics and aptitude 
of its makers.” Prosecutors from the case have pointed to a multitude of facts neglected by the ﬁ  lmmakers in order to stack their case for the defendants’ innocence. Whether this was in the name of streamlining an already con-voluted storyline or perhaps for something 
more unethical, it’s vividly apparent that their portrayal of the case contains some gaping holes. The timeline of 
the events surrounding the murder is never clariﬁ  ed, rel-
evant evidence is presented but never investigated and Teresa Halbach’s life is quickly glossed over.
Yet the most disquieting element of the show is its 
voyeuristic tendencies. The thrill of the case overshad-ows the personal tragedies of those involved, turning them into entertainment to be consumed in ten hours and soon forgotten. Images of the Avery family, surrounded by junk cars and mobile homes, are simultaneously piti-
ful and chilling. The victim’s brother is presented solely 
through press interviews, characterized by an unnerving smile and unwavering faith in the police. Needless to say, the portrayal of key players in the case takes on a spin more appropriate for a reality show than a docu-series.
In the end, “Making a Murderer” toes the line separat-
ing vigilante justice from voyeuristic exploitation. Despite its ﬁ  lmmakers’ claim in a Vulture interview that they had no opinion regarding Steven Avery’s guilt when they be-
gan ﬁ  lming, they were certainly convinced of his inno-
cence by the end of it. Independent crime investigations can undoubtedly shed light on the faults of the judicial system, but it’s crucial that they give ample consideration to all possibilities instead of working in absolutes. Only then can any real changes be made.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Drones are not the silver 
bullets we’ve made them out to be. On one hand, they facilitate our objec-tives by killing high-value 
targets without risking American lives. But on the other hand, we have to deeply consider the con-sequences, ranging from civil-ian deaths to the deception and secrecy with which our govern-ment conducts these drone strikes.
Despite these objections, the Obama 
administration and advocates continue to 
champion drones as a viable strategy, and 
according to the latest 2015 Pew data, 58 percent of Americans agree with using drones to target extremists. So, let’s re-ex-amine this together.
First off, the civilian-to-militant death 
ratio is disgraceful. Roughly estimated at one in every ﬁ  ve from the Bureau of In-vestigative Journalism's data, the civilian 
death rate is a direct result of the way we 
implement drone strikes. We develop our terrorist kill list from both signals intel-ligence, such as cellphone and computer communications data, and “pre-crime,” which is determined by an individual’s recorded background and possible connec-tions to terror networks.
How accurate are such data collection 
methods? Well, a 2013 Pentagon study thoroughly details their inaccuracies given the remote geography of our target areas in Yemen and Somalia. Further compounding the inaccuracy is the fact that the nearest U.S. air base to such target areas is in Dji-bouti, making reconnaissance ﬂ  ights difﬁ  -cult because our aircraft spend half of their ﬂ  ight time simply making the complete 
journey. 
So, sometimes our drones target and kill 
only militants. Other times, we have cases 
like the ﬁ  rst Obama-authorized strike in Yemen in December 2009, when we target-ed a village with only one al-Qaida afﬁ  liate and wound up killing 41 civilians, includ-ing 14 women and 21 children. Likewise, just a year ago in January 2015, a CIA-intel-
ligence failure resulted in one of our drone 
strikes in Pakistan killing two hostages, one American and one Italian. There is ef-fectively no oversight on our government agencies’ authorization of drone strikes, which has resulted in a gradual shift from Bush’s ground war in the Middle East to Obama’s drone war.
Don’t get me wrong: I like the 
president, and I believe he oper-ates with good intentions. How-ever, when our use of drones 
has increased eight-fold since the 
Bush administration and a pre-ponderance of civilian casualties gives innocent families a tangible reason to fear and hate the U.S., we need to reconsider our strat-
egy.
Even Malala Yousafzai, in her sit-down 
with Obama back in August 2013, chal-
lenged the president on his drone strategy 
by arguing, “Innocent victims are killed in these acts, and they lead to resentment among the Pakistani people.” If Malala says drones are no good, we should prob-ably listen. On the administration’s lack of accountability and transparency, we’ve killed eight terrorist-afﬁ  liated American citizens with drones on the basis of war 
crimes without any attempt to process 
them through a military court or tribunal, as is their constitutional right of due pro-cess.
To paraphrase Jeremy Scahill, a re-
nowned war reporter, what does it say about us when we become complacent with our executive branch authorizing the assassination of fellow American citizens 
without any presentation of evidence to the 
public or a judicial review? And none of the countries in question — Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia — are engaged in a declared war with the U.S., which implicates a myriad of concerns regarding international law.
Bear in mind that we’re discussing the 
drone legacy of Obama: the supposed paci-ﬁ  st, lame duck and ineffectual president, 
who displays American weakness to the 
rest of the world. With the 2016 election rapidly approaching, we must ask our-selves: What happens when a potential Trump or Cruz presidency assumes such unrestrained power?
With this image in mind coupled with 
resumed, Obama-authorized drone strikes in Pakistan in 2016, hopefully you now 
sense the urgent need for us all to have a 
conversation about drones and when to use them, who can authorize them and how they should be used.
David Hoffman is a UF history and 
physics sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Not enough responsibility with drones Column
It’s been three weeks since 
the governor of California, Jerry Brown, issued a state of emergency regarding the ongoing Aliso Canyon gas 
leak that has spewed up to 58,000 kilograms of methane per hour since Oct. 23. Without doing too much math, that equates to about two and a half months since the natural gas well released a trove of delight-ful job-creating and completely harmless vapors into the atmosphere before any dec-laration of emergency took place.
My apologies, did I say completely harm-
less? I meant noxious and carcinogenic. So carcinogenic in fact that, in an effort to save their skins, the folks at Southern California Gas Co. were revealed to be understating the levels of benzene emitted from their gracious gift to the Southern Californian atmosphere. As I understand it, this latest infraction was taking the spotlight away from the company’s initial decision not to promptly inform any of the nearby residents when the leak ﬁ  rst began. And though I, like many Southern Californians, love the smell of capitalism in the morning, I’d like to be able to breathe ﬁ  rst.
I say folks because, well, in these great 
United States, in the spirit of foregoing uni-son as we are wont to do, we have decided that corporations are people. And by we, I of course mean ﬁ  ve robed Sith Lords who feign to know what’s best for the people.
SoCalGas was merely the owner of the 
second largest gas storage facility at Aliso Canyon Oil Field. But through perseverance, peerless leadership and not having to worry about vexing regulation, they have secured their place as pioneers in the destruction of our planet. Once thought to be the “my-bad” to trump all other environmental di-sasters, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill has now been surpassed by the Aliso Canyon gas leak in carbon footprint size. And you know what they say about folks with large carbon footprints.
However, while corporations enjoy the 
beneﬁ  ts of personhood, they seem to evade any consequences that might befall a person should they, I don’t know, decide to ruin the breathing air for thousands of others in their neighborhood or destroy swaths of marine ecosystems in the Gulf of Mexico. Did I mention they are also putting thousands  of people out of work?
Yet even in the face of such 
ﬂ  agrant offense, there are masses of Americans who ﬂ  ock to the defense of those newest to per-sonhood and remain convinced 
that any regulation toward companies like these will hinder productivity and increase unemployment. For in the argument in fa-vor of unfettered business practices by large oil and natural gas companies, the jobs of those whose livelihoods focus on the ecol-ogy of their communities are worth nothing in comparison to those on the oil or gas rig.
Regulations ﬁ  nally rode in on Saturday 
— more Don Quixote than Gandalf during the Battle of Helm’s Deep — when the South Coast Air Quality Management District vot-ed to implement new restrictions toward the gas company and set future rules for others. But those eager to see justice served have not had their due and most likely will not. While it’s obvious that regulation concern-ing operations that are inherently dangerous to workers and the environment needs to in-crease, there’s a point that’s missing.
This isn’t an anti-capitalist manifesto — 
it’s anti-greed. We’ve tried greed for far too long in our nation and in nations beyond. Both the private sector and the government are at fault for the disaster that’s still go-ing on in Southern California, due both to SoCalGas’s determination to keep the pub-lic deaf, dumb and blind to the severity of the situation and the government’s lack of action and ongoing catering to illicit busi-ness practices such as these. A look at other man-made environmental crises reveals not bureaucracy as the sole assailant, but un-checked greed as well.
The destruction of our environment is the 
ﬁ  ght of my time and of yours. It’s ours. And while there are those pioneers in technology who are bringing us away from indifferent pollution, it is up to those who actually care to demand that those concerned only with quarterly reports be held responsible. 
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
It’s greed versus the planet Column
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
THE FINISHING TOUCHES
One of the owners of Visionary CrossFit in Gainesville, Jesus Martinez, paints a mural on the south 
wall of High Dive at 210 SW Second Ave. on Monday. 
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·By Lauren Rowland
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local firefighters brought the heat at a 
statewide competition Saturday.
Gainesville Fire Department’s  Rapid In-
tervention Team A came in first place after 
competing against 13 teams at the 2016 Fire 
Rescue East competition.
Teams from the panhandle to South Flor-ida traveled to the Ocean Center in Daytona 
Beach for a mix of trade shows and friendly competition.
David Shuford, a 28-year-old firefighter 
and paramedic, said his team breached walls, braved confined spaces and navigated with wax paper covering their masks.
They completed the course in about 16 
minutes — six minutes quicker than the second leading team — while wearing full uniforms.
Shuford said the goal was to rescue a 
mannequin, but his real objective was to continue learning.
“There is a lot involved,” he said. “It is 
the training you learn throughout your ca-reer.”
Each four-man team is broken into two 
units. The first unit checked the “victim’s” gear and air supply. The second unit fol-lowed with a rope trail left by the first team and then carried the mannequin to safety.
GFR has participated in the annual event 
for the last three years and won second place last year. Another team from GFR competed in the event this year and missed a spot in the finals by 30 seconds.
“They worked really hard, and they want-
ed to finish it off this year,” said Chief James Lovvorn, the team’s incident commander during the competition.GFR firefighters claim first place at fire rescue competition
They came in second last year
LOCAL
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
It’s been 30 years since the first 
knights and maidens gathered in Gainesville.
The Hoggetowne Medieval Faire, 
organized by the City of Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Af-
fairs Department, will take place at the Alachua County Fairgrounds on Saturday and Sunday, and again from Feb. 5 to Feb. 7.
Linda Piper, an events coordina-
tor for the Division of Cultural Af-fairs, said this year’s theme is The Adventures of King Arthur.
The event will feature Celtic 
music, acrobats, dancers and ma-gicians on nine stages, along with more than 160 artisans throughout the grounds.
The event began 30 years ago 
when the Society for Creative Anachronism helped produce the fair in exchange for free office space at the Thomas Center, Piper said.
Since Piper took over the event 
22 years ago, its budget has grown from $50,000 to $300,000, and dai-ly attendance is expected to reach 12,000.
Bill Hutchinson, the DCA’s en-
tertainment producer, said every performer is chosen for his or her ability to bring the event to life.
“The idea is to create the illu-
sion of being in a medieval village in the springtime, right after win-ter,” he said.
The fair will open from 10 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. both weekends, and from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Feb. 5. Admis-sion is $17 for adults, $7 for chil-dren and free for kids under 5 years 
old. Tickets will be discounted on 
Feb. 5, at $8 for adults and $3.50 for children.Hoggetowne Medieval 
Faire returns to GNV“There is a lot involved,” he said. “It is 
the training you learn throughout your 
career.”
David Shuford
firefighter and paramedic
Woman threatens to stab government 
employee, authorities say
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office deputies arrested a 
Gainesville woman Sunday evening after they said she as-
saulted a government employee.
At about 6:45 p.m. Sunday, Melanie L. Camacho, 30, 
flipped over a couch and knocked a woman to the floor, ac-cording to a police report.
The woman, an employee for the Department of Children 
and Families, was closing a case in Camacho’s apartment when Camacho became upset, according to the report.
Camacho then flipped over the couch where the woman 
was seated, according to the report.
As the woman crawled to the apartment’s door and tried 
to leave, Camacho grabbed her left arm and dragged her half-way through the front door, according to the report.
Camacho then slammed the door on the woman’s body as 
she lay on the floor, according to the report.
After the woman tried once more to leave, Camacho 
threatened her. “If I see you again, I will stab you,” she said, according to the report.
The incident was Camacho’s first criminal offense, accord-
ing to Alachua County court records.
Deputies arrested Camacho on a charge of battery on a 
DCF employee. Authorities took her to the Alachua County 
Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $10,000 
bond.
- Martin VassoloAuthorities say man led police on chase
Police arrested a Gainesville man Sunday night after they 
said he tried to escape by driving, and later running, away.
At about 6 p.m. Sunday, Dewitt L. Dailey Jr., 39, drove 
down Northeast 13th Street with no headlights, according to a report. When police tried to pull Dailey over, the man con-
tinued to drive through a parking lot before turning onto East 
University Avenue, according to the report.
Bailey obeyed all traffic laws while ignoring the wailing si-
ren behind him. After turning onto North Waldo Road, Dailey braked and turned onto a side street. He then parked his car and started to run, according to the report.
Dailey ran through two residential yards on Northeast 14th 
Street before catching his breath. When police caught up with Dailey, he laid down on the porch of a house and said, “I’m 
done,”  according to the report.
In his car, police found 1 gram of marijuana, two razor 
blades and about 4 grams of crack cocaine.
Police said crack because dealers typically cut large rocks 
with razor blades, according to the report.
Police arrested Dailey on charges of possessing cocaine 
with intent to sell, fleeing police, possessing under 20 grams 
of weed, resisting police, driving without a license and pos-sessing drug paraphernalia.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as 
of press time, he remains in lieu of a $28,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloPolice uncover burglary ring
Police arrested three South Floridians on Monday after au-
thorities said they traveled to Gainesville to steal from cars.
Keith Williams, John Honore and Mercedes Little, all from 
Plantation, Florida, were found with tools used to forge credit cards and break open windows, according to a press release. 
Police also found a fake credit card, various gift cards and 
shards of glass inside the group’s rental car.
Early Monday morning, the group burglarized a car at 
Dogwood Park in the 5500 block of Southwest Archer Road, according to the release.
Traveling car burglars often target parks, daycares and 
gyms. Acting on a hunch, GPD Detective Kathy Posey drove to the Planet Fitness parking lot at 2210 NW 13th St., where she parked and waited, according to the release.
Shortly after she began her surveillance, the suspects ar-
rived at the parking lot in a gray minivan and tried opening a few locked cars, according to the release.
Police later pulled them over in the 9300 block of NW 
U.S. Highway 441. Little cooperated and was released with a charge for attempted burglary, according to the release.
Police charged Williams with burglary of a conveyance, 
possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana and possession of burglary tools. Honore was charged with passing a forged 
or falsely embossed credit card and possession of credit card-
making equipment. As of press time, both men remain in the Alachua County Jail without bond.
- Martin Vassolo JEWISH COMMUNITY 
CELEBRATED TU B’SHEVAT.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Students and Gainesville resi-
dents sang traditional chants to-
gether Monday night to celebrate 
the Jewish holiday Tu B’Shevat.
Tu B’Shevat, which is the Jew-
ish new year for trees, is a holi-
day that traditionally celebrates the agricultural cycle in Israel. About 20 UF students celebrated 
the holiday at Chabad UF by eat-
ing fruit and listening to musi-cian Dror Sinai, said Rabbi Aaron Notik.
He said the day is a time for 
Jewish students to come together as a community and reflect on their cultural roots.
“That’s really the lesson of 
this holiday,” he said. “What’s really important for us is to grow and maintain strong roots. That’s what allows us to grow strong, to 
blossom and flower.”
He said students celebrate the 
holiday by eating seven tradi-
tional foods, including fruit and wheat, that grow in Israel. Some 
students planted trees in honor of the day on the Plaza of the Amer-icas on Monday morning.
The students sat in a circle 
and sang along with Sinai, who 
played hand drums and sang songs in Hebrew and Yiddish.
Sinai said he likes the holiday 
because it emphasizes humans’ relationship with the environ-ment.
“The human and the trees ac-
tually need each other to grow,” he said. “There’s magic in it.”
Catheline Runager, a UF so-
ciology sophomore, said it was 
her second time celebrating Tu 
B’Shevat after she converted to Judaism her first semester at UF.
“They have some awesome 
music,” the 20-year-old said. “It’s a great way to celebrate the holi-day with fruit.”
She said she had always felt 
drawn to Judaism and goes to 
Chabad UF every Friday to con-
nect with her faith and meet new people.
“The people here are great,” 
Runager said. “It helps my love for Torah blossom.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
New year, new trees
Myles Marcus, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering 
freshman, fills a plate at Chabad on Monday. He said he came to celebrate Tu B’Shevat as part of his religion and because he thought Chabad was always fun.
Dror Sinai, artist and founder of Rhythm Fusion Inc., chants in celebration of Tu B’Shevat, the new year for trees, at Chabad on Monday.
All Photos by Nicole Gomez / Alligator StaffAttendees clap along to chants at Chabad’s Tu B’Shevat celebration on Monday. Tu B’Shevat, which began at sunset Sunday and ended at nightfall Monday, is celebrated in Israel as an ecological awareness day.TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-16-15-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
BOAT FOR SALE
14 ft, fiberglass, 10 HP Merc. $1300. I can test drive. Mark 352-214-6426    1-27-16-2-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $595
00 CAMRY $595
99 BUICK $495
98 NISSAN QUEST $695
352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1297 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $695
91 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule
- Competitive production-based pay
- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
In need of a reliable worker to clean of-fices/homes/apts M,T,TH,F(after 5p) Sat &Sun(time varies) must have reliable transportation and be willing to drive to Morriston,Williston,Jonesville area...weekly pay 8.25/hr (gas will be distributed weekly)...must pass a background/drug check If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868   1-28-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Backyard Water is seeking vibrant and en-ergetic retail personnel for its Gainesville store. We will train you in pool chemistry. 30+ hours per week. Apply in person – 7100 W University Ave (behind Home Depot).    1-28-16-5-14
Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life. A Gainesville start-up company is looking for a co-founder. This is a commit-ment. There are great benefits if the compa-ny succeeds. No one can predict what those might be. Send contact info and resume to info@overlandats.com.    1-29-16-6-14
SUMMER JOBS starting at $220.00 per week with room and board included. Work at one of the University of Florida’s three recre-ational overnight camps located throughout the state. Staff have no cabin responsibilities and most weekends off. University of Florida 4-H Summer Program Staff are involved in teaching kayaking, team sports, arts/crafts, archery/air rifle, swimming and STEM educational classes. We are looking for ENERGETIC, CREATIVE & MATURE per-sons to help lead these youth at our facilities.
Application deadline is 2/12/16.  Apply online 
at:   florida4h.org/camps.    
IFAS Extension/4-H Youth Development is 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY INSTITUTION  
1-26-16-1-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida swimming and 
diving teams are looking for improvement after their meet on Saturday.Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Finney-Smith earns SEC Player of the Week
Florida men's basketball forward Dorian Finney-Smith was named the 
Southeastern Conference Player of the Week on Monday. The redshirt senior averaged 22 points and 10.5 rebounds in UF's wins over Mississippi State and Auburn.Emma Green / Alligator Staff
UF guard Chris Chiozza drives to the basket during Florida's 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Chris Chiozza replaced Kasey Hill as Florida’s 
starting point guard on Dec. 12 at Michigan State.
Even so, there’s no fierce competition be-
tween the two guards to prove that they’re wor-
thy of playing time. 
Chiozza likes when he and Hill get the chance to share the court, something they did a lot of in Saturday’s home win over Auburn.
Over the Gators’ last five games — in which 
the team has gone 4-1 — Chiozza has played 
like a true pass-first point guard. The sophomore 
averaged 7.6 assists per game over that span, including a season-high 14 points in Saturday’s win. Chiozza has now started 11 straight games, matching his freshman season total, and has transitioned nicely into the starting lineup.
“I think other than the Mississippi State game, 
(Chiozza) has been maybe our most consistent 
player,” UF coach Mike White said.
“He’s defended at a high level against both of 
the scoring point guards that we faced, Auburn 
and Ole Miss. …And then (his) assist-to-turnover ratio (3.74) is really, really good. He takes good shots. He’s shooting at a high percentage.”
Against Auburn, Chiozza and Hill played 25 
and 26 minutes respectively. Some of their best minutes were spent playing together.Chiozza adjusting to starting role for Florida
THORNQVIST 
PRAISED FLORIDA'S 
IMPROVEMENT.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The first topic discussed when 
coach Roland Thornqvist met with the media on Monday was junior Belinda Woolcock and her doubles match at the Australian open. 
But before Thornqvist could 
even usher in a sentence of praise 
for the Melbourne, Austrailia, na-
tive, a lightbulb above him shat-tered, momentarily startling the coach.
“I hope that’s not an omen,” 
Thornqvist joked before returning to the topic at hand.Thornqvist said that Woolcock 
is an impressive worker who is al-ways looking to get better. 
From the start of her freshman 
year to the beginning of the spring season in her junior year, a shift in mentality and confidence in Wool-cock has allowed her to reach her full potential.
“It’s the way she views the game 
and with confidence and maturity, she settled in,” Thornqvist said. 
“It’s more from, what I think, 
confidence and the mental game than anything else that’s allowed 
her to be three in the country in 
singles.”
Woolcock was not the only Gator 
to receive praise from Thornqvist. 
Sophomore Anna Danilina is the Women's tennis team expecting success in 2016MEN'S GOLF
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators men’s golf 
team has workouts at 5:55 a.m.
Head coach J.C. Deacon is usu-
ally the first person there.
Recently, however, he showed 
up at 5:40 a.m., and he was the last person to arrive.
“I think the attitude is hungry,” 
Deacon said on Monday. “I don’t 
think they were very pleased with 
how we played in the fall as a team 
at all.”
They’ve got something to prove.”
Hungry.That’s the best way to describe 
this golf team.
Not the way someone would 
hunger for a meal. 
No, it’s the insatiable desire for 
success that drives this team.
After a relatively slow start to 
the Fall season at the Carpet Capital Collegiate in early September, the Gators quickly picked up the pace 
with a win at the Dick’s Sporting 
Goods Collegiate Challenge Cup in late September.
UF would go on to finish in the 
top five in its last three events, in-cluding a victory at the Florida Gulf Coast University Classic — the final event of the Fall season.
Deacon attributed the hard work 
on and off the course as reasons for the team’s success. He said their attitude, dedication and positivity are what’s got him excited for the spring.
“I’ve never seen a golf team 
work like this,” Deacon said. “And 
it’s from top to bottom.”
All of them are flying, pushing 
each other, playing great, practic-
ing hard, talking right, showing up early.”
Deacon also pointed to some 
of the recent success of the team’s Gators
motivated 
entering 
spring
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15UF is 7-4 since the guard took over
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15“I think the attitude is hungry. 
I don’t think they were very 
pleased with how we played in 
the Fall as a team at all.”
J.C. Deacon
UF men's golf coach14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
The No. 4-ranked men’s and No. 
11-ranked women’s swimming and 
diving teams found success and fail-ure on Saturday against a tough con-ference opponent. 
Senior Arthur Frayler managed 
to qualify for the Olympic Trials in the 1500-meter freestyle. His perfor-mance, however, was not enough to 
catapult the men’s team to its fourth-
straight victory, as they fell to the 
No. 7-ranked Auburn Tigers 154.5-
145.5.
“I think the big learning experi-
ence for the men is you’ve got to bring it all the time in this confer-ence,” UF coach Gregg Troy said. “You can’t be a little bit off because if you are a little bit off, you lose two races and it’s a whole different deal.”
Two major struggles for the men’s 
team this past weekend were on the diving boards and in the breaststroke races. On the diving boards, redshirt senior Zach Hernandez was the lone UF diver to finish in the top three in the 3-meter diving competition, and no UF diver finished in the top-three spots in the 1-meter competition. 
Florida accumulated only nine out of 
a potential 32 points. 
On both the men’s and women’s 
swimming teams, the Gators were 0-4 in all breaststroke races on Sat-urday.
While their performance in the 
breaststroke did not hamper the 
women’s team in their 192-108 vic-
tory, Troy said they would be work-ing on their breaststroke and medley lineups as they prepare to take on the Tennessee Volunteers this week-end in their final regular season meet of the season. 
The Volunteers’ men’s and wom-
en’s swimming and diving teams, ranked No. 18 and No. 9, respec-tively, will be fully motivated to face the Gators in Knoxville this Saturday for their Senior Day meet. The Vols 
fell short on both the men’s and 
women’s side this past weekend to conference-rival Georgia, a team that defeated the Gators in Gainesville on Oct. 30.
While the Gators would certainly 
like to win the meet on both sides this weekend, Troy said his team is more focused on improving this 
week as they prepare for the South-eastern Conference Championships 
in February.
Since the Gators lost to the 
Bulldogs on both the men’s and women’s sides, they have used the conference loss as motivation. The women’s team has won their past 
four meets since then, including vic-
tories against conference foe South Carolina and in-state rival Florida State. 
Senior Natalie Hinds has been 
the main force behind the women’s team, accumulating 37 total victo-ries since the start of the season, the most by any individual Gator swim-mer. 
While the men’s team saw their 
three-meet winning streak snapped at the hands of the Tigers this past Saturday, Troy believes this loss may be just the motivation the men’s team needs to launch them into full form for the remainder of the season.
“On the men’s side, you can look 
at it as a wake up call,” Troy said. “The men haven’t really been chal-
lenged since before Thanksgiving. 
FSU didn’t challenge the men very much.
“I think Auburn was a little bit 
more intense.”
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel has 
been one of the most important swimmers on the men’s team this season. 
Including his three victories last 
Saturday, Dressel has 30 total wins this season, the most of any UF men’s swimmer. 
His performance, along with se-
nior Corey Main and sophomore Jan Switkowski, will be vital as Florida swims closer to the end of the season with both SEC and NCAA champion-
ship hopes on the line. 
“As long as we learn from mis-
takes that we’ve made, we’re in a 
real good spot,” Troy said.
 “So we’re pretty comfortable that 
we’re highly competitive and that we’re getting for the end of the sea-son to see what happens.”
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org
LEFT:
Florida coach Gregg Troy encourages his swimmers during UF’s 
meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center.
BELOW:
Natalie Hinds races in the 100-meter butterfly during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center.
Photos by Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Rankings are calculated by a computer 
before any competition for a season be-
gins. 
 However, the reality is that preseason 
rankings mean nothing if a team can’t 
back them up. 
The Gators enter as the No. 1 men’s 
team and the No. 6 women’s team, but 
coach Mike Holloway said those rankings are little more than flattering.
“There better not be,” Holloway said of 
his team letting the rankings get to their heads.
“We have to deal with reality, and the 
reality is we have a lot of work to do.” 
So, instead of focusing on rankings, the 
Gators will have to focus on improving in practice if they want a chance to prove those computers right. 
At the Rod McCravy Invitational this 
past weekend, some athletes shined, whereas some athletes’ nerves may have gotten in the way of their success. 
“It is always good to get the first one 
out of the way,” Holloway said.
 “It gives me and my staff a chance to 
see what the athletes look like when the lights come on. We have kind of a baseline now of what we need to do and what we need to improve on.”
Now the teams will turn their focus and 
preparation to the Razorback Invitational in Fayetteville, Arkansas, this weekend. There, the team will face 14 other teams, eight of which are ranked in the top 25. 
The men’s team will be facing four 
Southeastern Conference teams in No. 3 Texas A&M, No. 6 LSU, No. 7 Georgia and 
No. 11 Arkansas. 
They will also face two other top-five 
opponents in No. 2 Texas and No. 5 Or-
egon. 
When the Ducks and the Gators last 
met, Oregon defeated UF in the 2015 NCAA Outdoor Championships. 
But that high level of competition 
doesn’t scare either of UF’s teams or 
coaches. 
“We pride ourselves in being at our 
absolute best in the big meets where it 
counts,” Holloway said. 
 “Anyone that puts a Gator uniform on 
is expected to compete at a high level.”
@Lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida not paying attention to rankings as season begins
Men ranked No. 1, Women No. 6Gators swimming and diving team looking for improvement 
“It is always good to get the first one 
out of the way. It gives me and my staff 
a chance to see what the athletes look 
like when the lights come on. W e have 
kind of a baseline now of what we need 
to do and what we need to improve on.”
Mike Holloway
UF track & field coach“I like playing with Kasey,” Chi-
ozza said after Saturday’s game. “It 
just gives another level of speed out there with both of us out there and two guards that can handle the ball. 
Either one of us can initiate the of-
fense.”
White said certain situations call 
for the point-guard duo to play to-gether. If freshman guard KeVaughn Allen is shooting well, it’s difficult to take him out, but if Florida is playing with a lead and wants an additional ball-handler or if the Gators need to 
press defensively, then the Chiozza-
Hill combination makes more sense.
“Regardless of who gets the ball, 
they act as the point…playing with two point guards gives us added speed and quickness,” White said. “It allows us to push the basketball a little bit more. You have added decision-making abilities. Being an 
inexperienced team, you have a ju-
nior and sophomore out there that also played together last year, so it’s added experience…it’s definitely a luxury to have two point guards who are playing pretty well.”
Chiozza’s next challenge will 
come tonight in Nashville against Vanderbilt (11-8, 3-4 Southeastern Conference) in his home state of Tennessee. The Gators (13-6, 5-2 SEC) and Commodores face off at 9 p.m.
The challenge will be slowing 
down guard Wade Baldwin IV, who leads Vanderbilt with 14.5 points per game and is shooting 45.5 percent from three-point range. As a team, the Commodores average 8.5 made three-pointers per game, second in the SEC only to Auburn’s 9.6. Flor-ida held the Tigers to 6-of-24 from 
beyond the arc on Saturday.
“You’re already down 10 points 
on the road,” said Chiozza, whose 
team will try to extend their three-game winning streak tonight in Nashville. “We got to come out with a lot of energy and just worry about that game and focus on Vanderbilt and not worry about the last one.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
younger players for why he has such a posi-tive outlook coming into spring play.
Freshman Jorge Garcia, a native of Anaco, 
Venezuela, and sophomore Alejandro Tosti, from Rosario, Argentina, played exceptionally well in various tournaments over the winter break.
Garcia fired a final-round of 5-under-par 
66 to capture the South Beach International 
Amateur title on Dec. 23.Garcia and Tosti also competed in the Lat-
in America Amateur Championship in the Do-minican Republic. Tosti finished tied for third 
in the event. After a final-round 74, Garcia would finish second — only one shot back of winner Paul Chaplet of Costa Rica.
The winner, however, earned the right to 
tee it up at the Augusta National Golf Club in April with an exemption into the 2016 Mas-ters Tournament.
Deacon said he was most impressed with 
Garcia’s positivity following the heartbreak of missing the Masters by a single stroke.After struggling at the beginning of the fall 
season, Garcia has transformed into one of 
UF’s most reliable players.
“(He’s) sacrificed so much of his life to get 
better at the little things and was diligent and 
has done a great job,” Deacon said. “And now he’s starting to kinda reap the rewards from it.”
According to Deacon, everyone on this 
team is working hard to achieve success. The key is to keep at it.
“If we keep working like this and dedicat-
ing ourselves and sacrificing the little things in life that they are right now, it’s gonna come,” Deacon said.
“I’ve seen it before with teams like this. 
It’s gonna come. It’s just a matter of being pa-tient enough to let it happen.”
@rboone1994 
GOLF,  from pg13Freshman Garcia missed qualifying for Masters by one strokeAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF's Kasey Hill attempts a layup during Florida's 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center.
BASKETBALL,  from pg13Vandy makes 8.5 threes per game
Alligator File Photo
Roland Thornqvist, head coach of the Florida women's tennis team, watches his players compete dur-
ing UF's 4-0 win over Maryland on Jan. 25, 2015.
only newcomer to the team and has 
already made a huge impact. In UF’s last tournament alongside senior Brianna Morgan, Danilina won the doubles title at the Dick Vitale Clay 
Court Classic. 
At the Freeman Memorial Ten-
nis Championship, Danilina was the 
only Gator to reach the semifinals. 
Thornqvist said that she was the 
best player for the Gators at the tour-nament.
In his 15th year at Florida, Thorn-
qvist has seen plenty of great indi-
vidual athletes come through his 
program. 
He said that the real challenge 
is helping them make the transition from individual to team play. 
Only time will tell for Danilina, 
who will need to adjust from indi-vidual play to playing for a team for the first time.
But Thornqvist knows that Flor-
idab is anxious to get back out on the court for team play and to get an-other shot at Vanderbilt, the reigning NCAA and Southeastern Conference champions.The Gators faced Vanderbilt three 
times last season, with the Commo-dores coming out on top each time. 
Vanderbilt was responsible for 
three of four losses the Gators had last season. 
But in Florida's second and third 
matchups against Vanderbilt, Thorn-qvist believed the Gators were the better team, but the Commodores did just enough to come out with a victory.
The coach also said each player 
has improved in both singles and doubles, and that those improve-ments could be the deciding factor         in most of the games the Gators play this year.
“If we can win the doubles point, 
with this singles lineup, it’ll be aw-fully difficult for another team, in 
my opinion, to beat us,” Thornqvist 
said.
“To have to come back and beat 
us four spots in singles, where not only are we going to be very good at the top and we’re going to have some of the best players in the country at the top, we are going to be perhaps relatively stronger at the bottom.”
@DreilingerJakeVanderbilt handed Florida three of UF's four losses last season
TENNIS,  from pg 13“I’ve seen it before with teams like this. 
It’s gonna come. It’s just a matter of 
being patient enough to let it happen.”
J.C. Deacon
UF men's golf coach16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
For Florida gymnastics coach Jenny 
Rowland, last weekend presented a 
slew of ﬁ  rsts.
It was UF’s ﬁ  rst regular-season 
Southeastern Conference meet and ﬁ  rst SEC contest in an opposing squad’s arena.
And, for the ﬁ  rst-year head coach, 
Friday was her ﬁ  rst time stepping foot in the Auburn Arena as a member of a conference rival.
As a member of the Auburn Tigers, 
Rowland aided AU head coach Jeff Gra-ba for ﬁ  ve years, providing input ﬁ  rst as an assistant before earning a promotion to associate head coach in 2013.
On the heels of a season that saw 
Auburn return to the Super Six for the ﬁ  rst time in 22 years, she was named 2015’s co-National Assistant Coach of the Year, solidifying her position as a hot commodity on the coaching market.
Scooped up following the departure 
of Florida’s long-time coach Rhonda Faehn, Rowland was brought in to over-
see the continued success of one of the 
nation’s premier collegiate gymnastics programs.
It was her ﬁ  rst challenge of such a 
magnitude. For all of her experience as 
a competitor, judge and instructor, she 
had never helmed a team on her own.
And yet, mere months and a jersey-
swap later, Jenny Rowland stood at 
the UF Women’s Club lectern, deliver-
ing a press conference in the wake of a 197.075-195.90 triumph over Auburn.
“It was very nice to be back,” Row-
land said of her homecoming. “A lot of 
emotions stirring through my head the whole competition.”
Rowland wasn’t detached from the 
weight of the moment. In front of an 
announced sellout crowd of 7,424, she received a hospitable welcome home.“Once I got there, it was actually a 
very warm welcome,” she said. “It was 
very nice to see a lot of familiar faces, 
and they were actually very welcoming and very open-armed.”
But the warm welcome ended soon 
after the beginning of the meet.
“Once competition started, it was 
game-on. It was all about my athletes and the Gators,” Rowland said.
With their coach all-in, Florida’s 
gymnasts have taken notice. And with a home meet against No. 5 Alabama coming up this Friday in the O’Connell Center, they’ll be looking to feed off of Rowland’s mentality.
“Sure it was a little hard for Jenny 
as she recently came to Florida from Auburn, but she did a great job,” se-nior Bridget Sloan said following Friday 
night’s victory.
“She is truly a Gator now. We trust 
her, and we want to go out there and 
make her look good.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgUF beat Auburn on FridayRowland escapes alma mater with win
Florida coach Jenny Rowland claps during 
UF’s win over UCLA on Jan. 15.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff