We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 73 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
Best sports photos of the semester
T ake a look at the editors’ choices for our 
favorite photos of Fall, pg. 23
Foster grandparents to celebrate touching lives
They will be recognized at a luncheon, pg. 10
Checkers near campus to get LED lights, new roof
It will be the ﬁ  rst of nearly 840 restaurants in the country to get the renovations, pg. 5Happy Winter Break from the Alligator
Print publication will resume Jan. 4. See continued coverage online, alligator.org
OWNER SATCHEL RAYE 
HOPES FOR A FRIDAY 
OPENING.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
The smell of smoke still lin-
gered Tuesday afternoon as 
Satchel Raye, 48, and some of his 
employees, family members and 
friends helped clean up after a ﬁ  re gutted Lightnin’ Salvage Enterpris-es, an outdoor bar and gift shop at 
Satchel’s Pizza.
Raye’s message was clear as he 
spoke about the loss of the struc-
ture that represented 25 percent of his business: It is going to come 
back bigger and better.
“Our kitchen’s not gone,” he 
said. “We can take care of these 
employees, and we can make a 
plan.”
Gainesville Fire Rescue re-sponded to multiple calls Monday 
night, the ﬁ  rst coming in at 9:22 p.m., from passersby who saw huge ﬂ  ames shooting out of the 
restaurant. After about 30 minutes 
on the scene, the ﬁ  re was con-tained, but the damage was done. 
No one was injured, and the 
cause is under investigation, GFR Deputy Fire Chief JoAnne Rice said Tuesday during a press con-ference.
Video footage was being re-
viewed by an investigator, she said. No cause is known.
“It’s a severe loss,” she said. 
“This is an icon in the community. 
This speaks Gainesville.”
•   •   •
When Satchel Raye got a call 
Monday night, he ran out of his 
house, hopped in his car and drove 
over to his restaurant. He left his 
wife, Caroline, staring after him in  After ﬁ  re, Satchel’s Pizza 
makes plan for rebuilding
Grace King / Alligator Staff
The remains of Lightnin’ Salvage Enterprises, the area known for its gift shop and neatly decorated walls, lies behind ﬁ  re tape. The area burned down late Monday evening.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Arianna Hufﬁ  ngton’s 
Tuesday-night appear-ance at UF was canceled following an online com-ment referencing a politi-cal assassin.
University Police 
spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said the comment, 
left on the Accent Speakers Bureau Face-book page, referenced Otoya Yamaguchi, a Japanese ultranationalist who assassinated a socialist politician in 1960.
Hufﬁ  ngton, the co-founder of The Huff-
ington Post, was scheduled to speak at 8 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Per-forming Arts after being invited by Accent Speakers Bureau in partnership with Stu-dent Government’s women’s affairs and career development cabinets.
Barber said he did not know exactly what the comment said, but that UPD tres-
passed the Facebook user from the event, 
although no criminal charges were ﬁ  led.
The commenter, whose name was not 
released, told UPD and Gainesville Police 
ofﬁ  cers he did not plan to hurt Hufﬁ  ngton.
“He said he didn’t want to harm Ari-
anna Hufﬁ  ngton in any way,” Barber said.
UPD did not make the decision to cancel 
Hufﬁ  ngton’s appearance, he said.
Mike Greenberg, the Accent chairman, 
said in his two years working with Accent, there had never been a cancellation.
Accent had planned to pay Hufﬁ  ngton 
$80,000 for the event, but a check was nev-er cut. If the event is not rescheduled, the money will roll over to fund events next semester, Greenberg said.
“Given the circumstances that were laid 
out, all parties involved thought it would be the best decision to cancel the event,” Greenberg said.
Tuesday’s event would have been Ac- Accent event canceled after threatening Facebook comment
WITH HIGHER HEALTH 
CARE COSTS, STAFF IS 
STRETCHED THIN.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
After suffering from throbbing earaches, 
Alyssa Eatherly turned to UF’s Student 
Health Care Center in March in hopes of 
getting help. 
Instead, she was sent home and told 
the throbbing pain, fever and hearing loss — symptoms of an oncoming ear infection she’s known since she was young — were 
nothing. She ended up in the emergency 
room the next day.  
“They misdiagnosed me,” Eatherly, 19, 
said. “And the worst part is, they wouldn’t listen to me.”
Eatherly was one of 300 students the cen-
ter may see in a single day, said Guy Nico-lette, the director of the center. Health care costs have increased over the years while 
the number of available doctors remains the 
same, forcing them to stretch their staff thin. 
The center, which costs about $19 mil-lion to operate each year, is funded mostly 
by a fee included in UF tuition. The rest 
comes from insurance and patient bills, he said.
The center’s administration handles stu-
dent complaints to the best of its ability, he said. 
“I think we state our mission and vision 
pretty clearly,” he said. “To become the pre-ferred provider for every student.”
But for Eatherly, the center failed her. “The medicine at UF has this amazing 
reputation that they deﬁ  nitely didn’t live up 
to,” she said.
•   •   •
Eatherly, a UF English and Spanish se-
nior, has fought ear infections since she was 1 year old.
When she visited the health care center, 
she knew the throbbing pain was a sign it was coming back. 
Eatherly said Dr. Cynthia Eddleton spent 
fewer than ﬁ  ve minutes examining her after she waited for more than two hours. The 
doctor told her to take DayQuil and insisted she would feel better soon, despite Eather- Student Health Care Center 
struggling with increased costs
Hufﬁ  ngton
SEE SATCHEL’S,  PAGE 4
SEE INFIRMARY,  PAGE 4 SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4CAMPUSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  76° LOW  47°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Collection Day is today
Collection Day is your one-stop 
drop off for unwanted items. Join Sustainable UF today from 7:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center Parking Lot for Fall Collection Day. This event makes it quick and convenient to drop off un-
wanted household items, cloth-
ing, hazardous waste, old or broken electronics, furniture, appliances, school supplies and non-perishable food items. Usable items will be donated to the community, and damaged goods, hazardous waste and electronic equipment will be re-cycled or disposed of safely and responsibly by partnering orga-nizations. Food donations will be donated to the campus Field and Fork Pantry, and clothing, furniture and household items will benefit Haven Hospice. Collection Day is open to all students, faculty and staff. Visit Facebook.com/sustainableuf or sustainable.ufl.edu/collection-day for more information.
‘A Christmas Carol’
The Hippodrome State 
Theatre presents its most re-
cent rendition of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featur-ing Scrooge, Marley and, of 
course, Tiny Tim. The show 
will run today through Friday at 10 a.m., Saturday at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Dec. 16 at 10 a.m. and Dec. 
17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will 
also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 at 7 p.m. and Dec. 21 and Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of re-demption, charity and good-
will with your children for the 
first time — or the 39th. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for advance res-
ervations.
The Reitz Union Arts and 
Crafts Center will close for 
renovations today
After 5 p.m. today, the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center will temporarily close to be-
gin crafting a better space 
for your art. The ACC will be working with current users to finalize existing projects and retrieve art pieces. Please visit 
union.ufl.edu for updates on the renovation and a reopen-
ing announcement during 
Spring.
Holiday hip-hop: fitness edition 
with RUB Entertainment
Join Reitz Union Board Entertainment for a fes-tive take on hip-hop fitness. 
Today, take a break from 
studying and come out to the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on the third level of the Reitz 
Union for a special holiday-
themed hip-hop fitness class, which will feature some of your favorite holiday songs to get you excited for the sea-
son. Relieve some exam stress 
and have some fun before the semester comes to an end. Please arrive by 6:15 p.m.
Caroling the Ravines, pre-
sented by Friends of Ravine 
Gardens Inc.
The Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s Ravine Gardens State Park 
and the Friends of Ravine 
Gardens Inc. are hosting their ninth annual Christmas event — Caroling the Ravines 
— Saturday from 6 p.m. to 9 
p.m. Take a musical wagon ride around the lit-up park as you enjoy featured perfor-mances from talented singers 
and get your Christmas shop-
ping done early by visiting lo-cal vendors. Come visit Santa Claus or have your photo 
taken with him. A variety of 
delicious foods, sweets and drinks will also be available for purchase from local food vendors. Admission to the event is $2 per person or $5 
per vehicle (up to eight peo-
ple), including park entry. The event will take place at the Ravine Gardens State Park in Palatka, Florida. Proceeds 
from the event will benefit 
the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. Decorated luminary bags with custom names on them 
will be on sale for $5 each. 
Proceeds from the luminaries will benefit local projects by the Pilot Club of Palatka.
Toastmasters Potluck
Talking Gators Toastmasters will host its annual holiday potluck and gift exchange 
Tuesday. The meeting starts at 
5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology-Nematology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive. Bring food for the potluck. 
Also, bring a wrapped new or 
gently used gift valued at $5 to $10. There will be no meet-ing Dec. 27. Meetings will resume Jan. 3. For details, 
go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. The mission of Talking Gators 
is “to provide a supportive 
and positive learning experi-ence in which members are empowered to develop com-munication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal growth.”
Apply now for 2017-2018 fi-
nancial aidTo apply for financial aid, complete the Free Application 
for Federal Student Aid at 
fafsa.ed.gov. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results 
of your 2017-2018 FAFSA from 
the federal processor is Dec. 15. Apply before Dec. 15 to ensure the federal processor 
has time to analyze and send 
the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served ba-
sis, so apply as early as pos-
sible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit 
fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser through sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly format-
ted “What’s Happening” sub-missions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will 
not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 73
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
By Mary-Lou Watkinson 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF piano professor has been 
named director of UF’s School of Music.
Kevin Orr, who has been with UF 
for the past 17 years, accepted the job 
Monday and will start July 1, said Lu-cinda Lavelli, the dean of the College of the Arts. He has served as interim director of the school since July 2015.She said Orr was chosen by the 
search committee because of his knowledge of the school and the field of music. As a pianist who has performed internationally, Orr understands the 
training students need to get jobs.
“He’ll be keeping an eye on the cur-
riculum to make sure it’s current — of-fering our students the best learning 
experience they can get,” she said.
Lavelli said Orr will work to get the resources the school needs such as 
a new building and a marching band 
field.
“He will continue to look for oppor-
tunities to bring training and education 
to students, so that when they gradu-
ate, they’ll be very competitive in se-curing positions,” Lavelli said.
Scott Wilson, a UF associate profes-
sor of jazz, said Orr is qualified because 
he understands how the college oper-ates.
He said Orr will transform the 
School of Music, as shown by how he has worked to bring necessary reno-vations to the building, which suffers 
from a poor heating, venting and cool-
ing system and has a leaky roof.
“He has a world-class demeanor and 
work ethic,” he said.  “In my entire ca-
reer, I have never met someone more qualified to take the job.”UF School of Music announces new director to start July 1
Orr
confusion.
He left without a word, she 
said. A few minutes later, her phone rang. 
Part of their restaurant had 
caught fire, he told her. She rushed after him.
“I kept trying to tell myself, 
‘Stay calm, stay calm,’” Satchel 
Raye said, recalling the previous 
night. 
He was shaking as he drove 
over, unsure of what he would 
find. He had been through this be-
fore, he told himself. He could get 
through it again.
Rice said about 30 personnel 
from the fire department were on 
the scene four minutes after the first phone call. 
In 2012, Rice said she had been 
training at a warehouse down the road from Satchel’s when they re-ported a fire, forcing 25 people to evacuate.
She said it was rare for a fire 
to strike twice in the same area, 
almost like lightning. Despite the 
loss, Rice said it could be an oppor-tunity to grow and rebuild.
“I can only envision this being 
bigger and better,” she said.
By the time Satchel Raye got 
home at about 4 a.m. Tuesday, he still thought of his restaurant. Lying in bed, his heart raced as adrena-line kept him awake for hours.  At about 6 a.m., he got out of bed. 
He wanted to start rebuilding 
as soon as he could so they could open up the restaurant as soon as possible. By Tuesday night, an in-surance adjuster had already cut them a check. 
“We are really planning and 
hoping for a Friday opening,” he said. “It’s looking good.” 
•   •   •
With one hand on her hip, Judy 
Keathley shielded her eyes with the other as she peeked into the burned remnants of Lightnin’ Salvage.
As she stared, she traced the 
layout of the structure in her mind, imagining the rows of gifts, now 
charred.
“You kind of can’t believe it,” 
she said.  
Keathley, who was in charge 
of buying items for the gift shop, rushed over as soon as she heard 
what happened. 
She was still in shock, but al-
ready, Satchel Raye is planning the comeback, she said. Raye said he 
will give donations directly to Ke-
athley and two other employees. All other expenses will be covered 
through savings and insurance.
“I really admire that,” she said 
with tears in her eyes. “It’s gonna 
be better than ever. I’m confident about that.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org SATCHEL’S,  from pg. 1Any donations will go to gift shop employees
Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Jordan Borstelmann, Judy Keathley and Danny Lore stand outside the remains of Lightnin’ Salvage at Satchel’s Pizza. Borstelmann, Keathley and Lore were the three employees of the area that burned down.
cent’s final speaking engagement of the calendar year. So far this year, the group has hosted Brit-ish anthropologist Jane Goodall, retired American astronaut Scott Kelly and retired MLB baseball player Alex Rodriguez.
Greenberg said he was disap-
pointed Huffington’s appearance was canceled but stressed that Accent will continue to host its speaking engagements.
“Sometimes circumstances are 
simply out of our control,” he said.Celine Besman said she found 
out Tuesday morning from Ac-
cent’s Facebook post that Huffing-
ton’s event was canceled due to a threat.
The UF public relations senior 
said she had picked up two tickets Monday for herself and a friend to see a woman she’s admired for 
two years.
Huffington has been an influ-
ential member of the media, the 
21-year-old said. Besman said she wanted to hear her story of run-ning The Huffington Post and her thoughts on recent trends in the media. 
Even though she was looking 
forward to the event, she said, she’s happy the threat was taken seriously.
“It was unfortunate, but it had 
to be done,” she said. “I’d rather be safe than sorry.”
ACCENT,  from pg.1The commenter told police he had no intention of harming Huffington
ly’s protests, she recalled.
After the pain became unbear-
able, she ended up at an emergen-
cy room, where a doctor confirmed she had an ear infection.  
When the mistake in Eatherly’s 
case was realized, Nicolette said the doctor who treated her was ap-
proached. All interview requests 
to Eddleton were directed toward Nicolette.
Medical care is challenging, es-
pecially when answers are hard to find, he said. 
“It can be frustrating for people, 
including the doctor, when you’re not cured the first time,” he said. 
•   •   •After Eatherly wrote an article 
about her experience, others began 
reaching out to her with similar ex-
periences.
Anna Morgan, 22, said she vis-
ited the center when she felt sick. The doctor told her to drink fluids and get rest, she recalled. 
After leaving with no treatment 
plan, an infection spread from her 
throat to her eyes. Because of the 
misdiagnosis, she fell behind in classes. 
“I know they’re the doctor, but 
I know my body,” she said. “This is something that could have been 
prevented.”
Morgan, now a UF English grad-
uate student, said she still goes to the center because of her insurance 
plan. Nicolette said he hopes students 
receive the care they need but be-
lieves the doctor has the ultimate 
say.
“(Eddleton’s) notes reflect what 
she examined,” he said. “Neither you or I can second guess what she saw.” 
After Eatherly’s article, she was 
offered the opportunity to speak 
with the Student Health Advisory 
Board, she said. 
She said she hopes students 
learn from her story.
“Don’t let them mistreat you,” 
she said. “You know your body. 
Don’t let them make you feel insig-
nificant.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgINFIRMARY,  from pg. 1The center sees roughly 300 students daily
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Alyssa Eatherly stands in front of the UF Student Health Care 
Center, where she was treated for an ear infection. After a long wait, she was seen and sent away with no plan for treatment.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Amanda Nardi
Alligator Contributing Writer 
As they clean before Winter Break, people 
can donate gently used clothes and items to-
day.
The UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability will hold 
its Collection Day today from 7:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m. in the northwest corner of the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center parking lot. 
Items collected will be donated to orga-
nizations such as Haven Hospice, UF’s Field and Fork Pantry, Alachua County Tools For Schools and the Alachua County Hazardous Waste Collection Center.
Clothing and household items such as non-
perishable foods, school supplies and toys will 
be donated, said Allison Vitt, the outreach and 
communications coordinator for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability. Hazardous and electronic waste will also 
be collected and safely disposed of.
This event is an opportunity for students, 
faculty and staff to get rid of unwanted items in an environmentally sound way, she said.
“A lot of people throw these into landﬁ  ll, 
and it’s hazardous because the items have heavy metals that could leak into the water system,” Vitt said.
Haven Hospice and the Alachua County 
Hazardous Waste Collection Center will be on-site to collect items and answer questions, she 
said. 
Sharon C. Blansett, the assistant to the as-
sociate vice president for Student Affairs at UF 
Housing and Residence Education, wrote in an email that she is planning on donating paint.
“I already sent my husband the notice 
about this event,” she said. “It’s one of the many ways I prod him to clean the garage!”  Sustainable UF collecting items 
for donation, safe disposal
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Checkers near UF’s campus will be ren-
ovated for the ﬁ  rst time in more than two de-
cades before the start of the Spring semester. 
The chain’s location at the intersection of 
West University Avenue and Southwest 34th 
Street will be the ﬁ  rst of nearly 840 in the 
country to get environmentally friendly LED lighting, a new roof and a repainted parking lot. The restaurants will also go from a dou-ble drive-thru to a single. 
“What we are trying to do is make the 
building more contemporary,” said Jennifer Durham, the Checkers chief development ofﬁ  cer and senior vice president. The com-
pany’s retro design will remain.
The restaurant’s renovation will cost 
about $150,000, she said. The full remodel-ing is expected to be done by Dec. 23, but 
the restaurant will remain open throughout renovations. 
Durham, a UF alumna, said she decided 
to remodel the Gainesville Checkers location near campus ﬁ  rst because of how well it’s been doing. 
The 47-year-old said she remembers rid-
ing her bike there for fries as a UF student after it opened in January 1994. She said the restaurant has looked the same ever since. 
“That particular corner is one that has not 
had a lot of attention in quite some time,” Durham said. 
Maxwell Carter, a 19-year-old UF industri-
al and systems engineering freshman, said he might visit the Checkers after it’s renovated for some fries. 
“I think it’d be cool if I was the ﬁ  rst one to 
go there and tell people about it,” Carter said.   Checkers near campus to 
get LED lights, new roofThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Cherish the importance of journalism and its people
Journalism is dead. 
It was a common diagnosis when 
I first confessed my major freshman 
year, fumbling through introductions 
in a sea of future doctors and engi-
neers. It’s a diagnosis that still lingers as fake news outwits filters and politicians 
openly lash out at the oldest media institu-
tions. And when I first began studying at UF, having never written for an independent news publication, I wasn’t too confident myself in the fate of news.
But then I stumbled into a dilapidated fraternity 
house on West University Avenue and found The Inde-pendent Florida Alligator. It was here I fell in love with my craft, my college and my colleagues, and it was 
here I realized journalism is far from over. 
The paper’s medium may not outlive us, the sleek 
sophistication of online wiping away the inky finger-
prints of paper. The industry itself may never flex with stability and security the way it used to. But the Al-
ligator has taught me that journalism will never be 
chained to buildings, stereotypes or past practices. It’s still thriving, fueled by the passion of people willing to defy the death sentence and tell the stories that need 
to be told. 
I saw it in the final hours of shaky Wi-Fi and tacky 
bamboo wallpaper, watching the thousands of words that poured into remembering Tiffany Sessions, the ag-
onizing coverage of the Pedro Bravo trial and dynamic athletics features. 
I see it in the first steps on Southwest 
13th Street, watching over the scramblings 
of Election Day coverage, the flashy sports 
layouts and the continuing push to do more, to do better.
Most importantly, I now see it in me, 
having found my place after ricocheting across the various sections of the news-room: sports, cops, photo, online, editor.
Four years and five semesters later, it’s 
time for me to say goodbye to the paper that started 
it all. I’m taking a step back from the late nights, the 
frenzy of breaking news and the nagging moments of insecurity and indecision. 
But in taking a step back from this paper, I take 
a step forward in journalism. Thanks to this paper’s people — from the sisters I found through late-night talks and debate transcriptions to the sports boys who belt “Hamilton” with me on eight-hour road trips to the staff members who accepted my editing and my 
sass — I am more confident than ever before not just 
in the future of this industry, but of my place in it. 
The Alligator, its staff and its readers are more im-
portant than ever before. As long as there are people 
passionate enough to tell the stories of our city and 
there are people hungry for the truth to read those sto-ries, journalism here will continue to flourish. To be a part of this growth and this change has been gratify-ing, humbling and exciting. 
Even when my byline is finally gone from these 
pages, let’s continue to support journalism here, and beyond the boundaries of Gainesville.
Let’s continue to make a paper. 
Emily Cochrane is a UF journalism senior. She is 
the current editor-in-chief of the Alligator.Be proud of 
your paper
Hi, everyone, it’s Zach Lee here, taking off the editorial 
mask to speak to you all directly one last time here in The Independent Florida Alligator. That being said, the following views are my own, not those of the Al-ligator. 
In the almost four months I’ve been serving as your opin-
ions editor, I’ve had the privilege and burden of trying to bring you a fair and balanced opinions section during perhaps the most controversial election season in the history of our nation. No matter what side of the debate you’re on, this election brought out the worst in us. Here in Gainesville, I watched this election motivate people to vandalize a series of buildings, including my old fraternity house, which had a brick thrown through a win-dow and “We Love (Swastika)” spray-painted on the exterior. While my brothers and I have had our differences politically, it disappointed me beyond belief that this is somehow a new and acceptable way we express our discontent. More recently, Arian-na Hufﬁ  ngton’s speaking engagement was canceled because of threats. Unsurprisingly, these threats were politically charged. It seems the institution of journalism is becoming more and more hated by the very people it so desperately tries to serve. 
In two weeks, I will be closing this chapter of my life and 
graduating, temporarily moving to Atlanta to intern at a comedy network, because that’s what philosophy graduates do, appar-ently. As I prepare to move on, I look back at how I got here. Unlike most editors here, I’ve only been with the paper since Summer 2016. For three years before that, I would occasionally submit guest columns, which the former opinions editors would more than occasionally reject. 
It’s fair to say, for the most part, I am an Alligator outsider. 
While everybody at the Alligator has been incredibly welcoming in my time here, the majority of my time as a UF student has not been spent with the paper. I’m a philosophy major, not a journalism student. For three of my three-and-a-half years here, I submitted nothing more than guest columns. Let the record reﬂ  ect I do not consider myself a journalist.
So as the unofﬁ  cial quasi-investigative journalist secretly in-
ﬁ  ltrating the mysterious Alligator, let me tell you my ﬁ  rst and ﬁ  -nal report: These students lose sleep and skip meals to bring you the truth. Those accusations of the paper being anti-Greek and hyper-left get laughed at by our many Greek employees (hi!), conservative editorial board members and columnists (surprise, there are many of them). This paper is one of the things that makes being a Gator so great, and it sets a sterling example for how college newspapers ought to be.
I’m compelled to share with you all at UF that you are so 
unbelievably lucky to have this paper. I know full well there’s a newfound distrust of journalism, and as a philosophy student who values transparency and honesty, I’m right there with you. But I can assure you that an overwhelming majority of news-papers are sincerely dedicated to bringing you the information you really ought to know. Sometimes it is hard to understand, given the pay is next to nothing. They must be doing it because they’re dedicated to informing you Gators, hoping to create a better campus and a better community. 
With that off my chest, I thank you, fellow Gators, for join-
ing me in this personal writing experiment. It’s been an honor having you all as my readership. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did. Stay critical, stay vigilant, stay brilliant and stay proud of your paper.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
opinions@alligator.org
“It was here I realized 
journalism is far from over.”Two years ago, I walked into the of-
fice of the Alligator on West Uni-versity Avenue to take the copy-
editing test. The copy desk chief at 
the time sat me in a small wood-
paneled office that held rows of shelves lined with tall black books: about half of 
the archives of a student paper that’s been 
around for 110 years. Thankfully, I passed that test.
Thinking about how many people have 
given their sleep and sanity to this paper 
— more than a century’s worth of stu-
dents just like me who have gone on to make waves in the ever-changing world of news — is both empowering and in-
timidating. 
But above all, it reminds me that being 
part of the Alligator is the best decision I 
have made at UF.
From Homecoming parades and News-
paper Fridays to Leo’s runs and seemingly never-ending potlucks, the Alligator has provided the setting and the characters for some of my favor-ite memories of college.
Don’t get me wrong — it’s 
not all been rainbows and sun-shine. There was election night, of course, and readjusting from 
the move to Southwest 13th 
Street from University Avenue. And on top of the daily stresses of the paper, I have also had personal challenges to face.
This summer, my mother died sudden-
ly. As you can imagine, it’s not been easy 
to keep on keepin’ on. I can never express how much the Alligator — not 
so much the paper itself as the people who surround me with 
love and positivity every night 
— helped me get through this first semester without my mom. It might never get easier for me, 
but I know even after this se-
mester and still after graduation I will have my Alligator family to lean on.
To my staff, I love you all dearly, and 
you don’t know how much each of you has impacted my life. 
And to you, “dear readers,” as you 
are so aptly referred to as, thank you. 
(A special shout-out to you for reading 
this column in print! Print’s not dead! Yet!) 
I know it may seem like all that’s out 
there is bias and click-bait, but I promise 
you, good journalism still exists. It’s up 
to you to seek it out, and it’s up to all of us to fight for its continuance. Being a journalist is not only more difficult than ever, but it is also more important than 
ever. We so appreciate each one of you for 
believing in what we do and for actively wanting to be informed about your com-munity and your world.
Nobody can predict the changes that 
will come for the next 110 years of news. But come what may, I guarantee you will be able to find a dedicated group of student journalists in Gainesville, Florida, 
living on coffee and chocolate, hounding 
sources, covering breaking news at all hours and upholding the reputation of our newspaper to bring you truth.
We are all part of something bigger 
than ourselves. And I’m so grateful my something bigger has been the Alligator.
Melissa Smith is a UF journalism 
senior. She is the current print managing 
editor of the Alligator.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
I’m going to go ahead and get the sappy 
cliches out of the way: All good things 
must come to an end. The end is just 
the start of another beginning. Don’t cry 
because it’s over; smile because it hap-
pened.
There — now we’re ready to begin.
Although not uncommon, it will always 
fascinate me how for so many students, the 
“academic experience” is usually deﬁ  ned by one speciﬁ  c moment or thing. There’s the mo-ment a student ﬁ  nally realizes his or her call-
ing in life, discovers a new, lifelong passion 
or simply gets a brief glimpse of adulthood before actually entering adulthood. Whether through a club, class, professor or group of 
friends, so often we can look back and point 
to something that explains how we arrived where we currently are. And this phenom-enon isn’t limited to college.
Experiences and people can shape your 
character — for better or worse. Choose your friends wisely.I didn’t get to come to UF with 
any friends. I was alone from day one. I was commuting a two-hour 
round trip from home and never felt 
like I was truly a student or belonged anywhere on campus. But by the grace of God, I was given a moment I can now look back on that I consider 
one of the most deﬁ  ning moments of 
my time at UF.
While it may seem odd (it totally is) to at-
tribute so much to one person, for me, any less would be an injustice.
I would not have made it to where I am at the Alligator — or worked here at all — without Emily Cochrane, this Fall’s editor-in-chief.
I never could have guessed the 
place I chose to sit in Introduc-tion to Journalism the ﬁ  rst day of freshman year (center aisle, sixth row back, third chair from the 
left) would impact me for the next 
four years. But it did. And it has.
That introverted, awkward guy who 
doesn’t talk to anyone? She introduced her-
self to me that ﬁ  rst day of freshman year and 
never let me slink away ever since.
When thinking about what I was going to 
write in this goodbye column, I knew there was no reason to write about anything else. 
It’s because of Emily I’m writing one at all.
Emily Cochrane is the reason I started at 
the Alligator. In the midst of my kicking and 
screaming, she spurred me to do more and 
aim higher at this publication.
Semester after semester, working along-side her at the Alligator or on class projects, 
I was continuously inspired and frustrated by Emily’s sheer will and fervor for her craft. Her drive is contagious, and I’m blessed to have been around it for so long. I would be much 
worse off without it.
When I grow up, I want to be a journalist 
like Emily Cochrane. 
My time at the Alligator and UF is cap-
stoned by Emily’s incredible friendship and 
inﬂ  uence on me. It has been an honor to work under and alongside her. It’s impossible to say enough good things about Emily, but luckily there are many people who can. And I 
am just one of them.
So the next time you ﬁ  nd yourself in class, 
sitting next to a stranger, don’t be like me. 
Introduce yourself. Make a new friend.
They might change your life.
Aaron Albright is a UF journalism senior. 
He is the current online managing editor of the Alligator. Make sure you appreciate the experiences that will later change your lifeColumn
Aaron Albright
opinions@alligator.org
Melissa Smith
opinions@alligator.orgWorking at this newspaper has been more than just a college experienceColumn
“W e are all part of 
something bigger 
than ourselves.”
“Experiences and 
people can shape your 
character — for better 
or for worse.”8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
SOUNDS OF 
THE SEASON
Photos by Alan Alvarez , Alligator Staff
UF’s a cappella community is known for hosting an annual Falala Capella 
concert, and this year’s concert was held by T one Def on Tuesday night inside the Reitz Union Auditorium. The opening group, The Staff, UF’s all male a cappella group, started with the parody song “Enormous Penis (Sleigh Bells). ” Other performances included coed a cappella groups Standing Room Only, No Southern Accent, Gestalt and all-female group The Sedoctaves. The show closed with T one Def performing “We Wish You A Merry Christmas” to get into the holiday spirit. 
Members of the audience clap for UF’s all-male a cappella group 
The Staff after they performed for the Falala Cappella concert inside the Reitz Auditorium on Tuesday night.
From left: Miles Mulet, a member of UF’s all-male a cappella group The Staff, and Phi Mu Alpha fraternity members Kenrick Watkins, David Barrow and Kyle T apley perform the song “Believe” from the movie “The Polar Express” in a quartet at Falala Cappella on Tuesday night.
David McKibbin, a 21-year-old UF theater senior and member of Standing Room Only, a UF a cappella group, sings the tenor part of Disclosure’s song “Latch” at the Falala Cappella event hosted by T one Def.
No Southern Accent, University of Florida’s coed a cappella group, opens its performance with the song “O Come, O Come, Emmanuel” on Tuesday night.
FORD DWYER HAS 
BEEN IN STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 
SINCE 2011.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
While in his third term serving 
in Student Government’s Student 
Senate, Access Party Minority Leader Ford Dwyer resigned from his seat Tuesday night. 
Dwyer, who served as a Law 
senator, said he didn’t have any 
regrets.
“I did a lot of things while I 
was senator, and some of them 
were controversial,” he told sena-
tors. “I don’t really regret any of 
it.” 
Dwyer said he had to resign 
because of academic scheduling 
conﬂ  icts. In 2009, he ﬁ  rst tried 
to interview as a candidate for a 
party, but he was unsuccessful. 
After losing in three SG elections, 
he won the next three he ran in. 
He will graduate in Spring. 
“I’m really sad that I have to 
resign, actually,” Dwyer said. 
“I’ve really enjoyed a lot about 
being in Student Government for 
all these years, but I have to put 
my career over Student Govern-
ment at this point.” 
As an undergraduate student, 
Dwyer represented Murphree 
Area and District D. While in 
Senate, he said he was proud of 
his attempts to rename the Reitz 
Union and how he helped form 
Access Party. 
“That was my happiest mo-
ment in Student Government, was seeing Joselin (Padron-Ra-
sines) win the Student Body pres-
idency,” he said. “The students 
needed a change.”
After he announced his res-
ignation, senators stood and ap-plauded. 
Impact Party Majority Leader 
Wayne Selogy told senators he 
ﬁ  rst met Dwyer in high school. 
He thanked Dwyer for working 
with him. 
“I can’t wait to have a beer 
with you when you’re a lawyer,” 
Selogy said.  
During Senate, senators unan-
imously approved $1,0015.13 for the First Generation Organiza-
tion, which supports ﬁ  rst-genera-
tion UF students, and $868.90 for the Japanese Student Association. 
They also approved an annual 
resolution honoring UF students 
who recently died.
“It’s just always been one of 
the things Student Government 
wants to sponsor in the sense 
that every Gator is important to 
the university,” said Judiciary 
Chairman Trevor Schaettle, who authored the bill.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When political protests broke out 
on Turlington Plaza after the U.S. presidential election, Nick Runde said he wanted to unite students. 
“I had the idea of just going in 
the middle of the group and doing a bottle ﬂ  ip, because that would be the only thing that would unite the groups,” the 19-year-old UF civil engineering freshman said. 
Runde said he had never 
interrupted a protest, but when he got a text during class Monday that a large group was forming on Turlington around people arguing about religion, he knew it was time. His friend brought a speaker and ﬁ  lmed Runde walking into the 
middle of the group as he promised 
to “break the tension” and ﬂ  ipped 
a quarter-full gallon of water. It 
landed. 
As of press 
time, the video has been viewed 
more than 
43,000 times on 
Facebook, and 
more than 300 
people have 
shared it. In it, 
cheers erupt as Runde walks away 
with his hands in the air, music 
playing in the background. 
“I didn’t know it was going to land,” he said. “I practiced like twice 
before I actually went out and did 
it.” 
People have been coming up 
and asking him if he’s the guy in 
the video, he said. Even his mom 
watched it. 
When UF applied kinesiology and 
physiology junior Rubi Peña saw the 
video, she said it brightened her day. 
“It was a funny way of getting 
everyone to remember, ‘Hey, we’re still young, we’re still happy, so 
focus on the good things,’” the 
20-year-old said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
 Student goes viral after ﬂ  ipping a 
gallon of water on Turlington Plaza
Runde
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Minority Leader Ford Dwyer 
delivers a ﬁ  nal speech to Student Senate in the Reitz Union on Tuesday evening. Dwyer is resigning his seat as senator to focus on his law-school studies next semester.By Morgan Rynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
Five Gainesville Police 
officers and eight Hispanic-
Latino residents turned their 
chairs to face each other as they 
discussed relations between the two communities Tuesday night.
GPD organized the town hall 
meeting to discuss individual experiences of both Hispanic-Latino residents and officers when interacting with each other and how to make the relationship 
between the two stronger in the 
future, said GPD Capt. Jorge Campos.
He said GPD has wanted to 
hold the meeting for a while and wants Hispanic-Latino residents to feel comfortable coming to officers for help.“One community we haven’t 
reached out to a lot are the 
Hispanics,” he said. “A lot of 
crime is committed against Hispanics.”
Campos said he wants 
members of the community to 
know they can approach officers, 
though he understands some may not come from countries where they would feel comfortable 
contacting authorities.
“We’re all human beings, 
and we look through a lens of 
what we know,” he said. “We fill what we don’t know with 
experiences.” 
Moisés Moreno-Rivera, a UF 
graduate student studying police 
brutality, said he understands 
concerns from both sides. 
He said he has seen brutality 
from officers in Mexico when he was there one summer, and he 
has a brother who works as a 
police officer in California.
To help build trust with 
residents, GPD has started using 
the Chicago Police Department’s procedural justice training 
program, said Officer Lynn 
Valdes. 
In this program, officers are 
taught to explain everything they 
do — from moving their hands to 
their belt to shifting their posture — after stopping a person.
Going forward, GPD plans to 
hold meetings with the Hispanic-
Latino community every three to 
four months. Campos said GPD wants to start meeting with other communities as well.
“We’ll start out slow and then 
build from there,” Campos said.  GPD hears concerns, hopes from 
Hispanic-Latino community in meeting Access minority leader 
resigns from Senate
10   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
TAKING CARE OF GAINESVILLE’S TECH NEEDS 
For Over 30 Years · 1102 NW 23rd Avenue ·  352-373-9697
Security Installations, Direct TV Services and More 
Computer 
Network 
Experts 
TAKING CARE OF GAINESVILLE’S TECH NEEDS 
For Over 30 Years · 
Security Installations, Direct TV Services and More 
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Catherine Robinson is a grand-
mother to more children than she can 
count.
At 74 years old, the former UF 
Health Shands Hospital employee 
has spent the past six years volun-
teering as a foster grandparent for elementary-school students through the Alachua County Foster Grandpar-ent Program.
On Friday, foster grandparents 
like Robinson will be honored for the hours of service they have dedicated through the 43-year-old program dur-
ing a luncheon at the Best Western 
Gateway Grand, said Samantha Flem-ing, the program coordinator. 
“We have some that just joined 
last month, and we have our longest-standing volunteer who has been in the program for 26 years,” Fleming said. “It’s just kind of a fun day.”
As part of the program, low-
income seniors ages 55 and older are paired with children from local schools to provide help with school-work and teach good classroom be-havior.
Robinson started in third-grade 
classes but now works mostly with the kindergartners. She said the chil-
dren, even as they grow older, con-
tinue to remind her of her own grand-children.
“I did the best I could to try to help 
them learn to read and write, and now some are grown,” she said. “And even though I never know how good of a job I did, they always see me and say, ‘Thank you, Grandma; thank you 
for teaching me how to read.’”Fleming said the beneﬁ  ts of the 
program are immeasurable.
“It gets the seniors out and active, 
supplements their income a little bit 
and then helps the children at the same time,” she said. “We had a vol-unteer who had lost her mother, so she joined our program, and it really helped her to kind of process that grief and to be able to continue going on.”
She said the children beneﬁ  t, too.“Then there are those children 
who have been told that there’s something they can never get, or that they’ll never amount to anything, and then the grandparents come and just kind of build them up and build up that conﬁ  dence,” Fleming said.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org  Foster grandparents to celebrate 
another year of touching livesIsabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
HOMELESS FOR THE HOLIDAYS
Michael, a Gainesville resident who declined to give his last name, has been living around the city’s 
streets for more than 40 years. “You get old, and then you get blind, ” he said. Homeless, Michael slept in a car wash on Northeast 23rd Avenue on Tuesday night.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After police pulled him over 
Monday, a Gainesville man was found with a loaded handgun and a potpourri of drugs in a “Dora the Explorer” lunch bag, Gainesville Police said.
At about 2:22 p.m., police pulled 
over Johnny Lavail Lee Jr., 33, in the 2200 block of SW Archer Road under the suspicion that his win-dows were illegally tinted, accord-ing to a police report.
While approaching Lee’s car, 
police smelled marijuana coming from inside, which warranted fur-ther searching, according to the re-
port.
During the search, police found 
5.7 grams of weed in Lee’s center 
console. In the back seat, a load-ed .40 caliber handgun was hid-den inside the “Dora” lunchbox. Elsewhere in the lunchbox, police found crack cocaine, four MDMA pills and two oxycodone pills, ac-cording to the report.
There was also a bag with an un-
known gray powder that the Flori-da Department of Law Enforcement will test, according to the report.
In Lee’s front pockets, police found $1,144 in cash, ranging from $1 bills to $100 bills, according to 
the report.
Police arrested Lee on charges of 
possessing a ﬁ  rearm as a convicted 
felon, two counts of possession of a controlled substance with intent to sell, two counts of possession of a controlled substance and driving with a suspended license.
Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where he re-
mains, as of press time, in lieu of 
an $80,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org  Police: man pulled over with gun, 
crack in ‘Dora the Explorer’ lunchboxWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016  ALLIGATOR   13 12   ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
Local 
Living 
Guide
1. A Nu Twist, Pg. 5
2. Aikido of Gainesville, Pg. 9
3. Best Jewelry and Loan, Pg. 9
4. Beyouteeful Obsession, Pg. 9
5. Biotest Plasma Center, Pg. 5
6. Computer Network Experts, Pg. 10
7. Copper Monkey, Pg. 248. Daily Green, Pg. 7
9. Flashbacks Recycled Fashions, Pg. 5
10. GNC Archer, Pg. 7
11. Govindas Bakery and Cafe, Pg. 9
12. Grog House Bar and Grill, Pg. 24
13. GT Motorcars, Pg. 9
14. Hippodrome, Pg. 515. Hurricane Alternator & Starter, Pg. 9
16. Indigo Homemade Ice Cream, Pg. 7 , 9
17. Liquid Ginger, Pg. 10
18. Lollicup, Pg. 7
19. McKnight and Co., Pg. 9
20. Royal Village Apartments, Pg. 3
21. The Social, Pg. 2422. UF Gatorwell, Pg. 5
23. Harn Museum, Pg. 22 
24. UF Mail and Document Center, Pg. 10
25. UF Student Health Care Center, Pg. 17
26. Urban Thread, Pg. 5
Businesses advertising in The Independent 
Florida Alligator’s Local Living Guide1
23456
7
89
1011
12
1314
1516
17
1819
2021
22
2324252614   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
By Brianna Ellis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Inside the Holy Trinity Episco-
pal Church, religious leaders from 
across Gainesville spoke the prayers 
of their respective faiths.
Muslim, Jewish, Christian and 
Unitarian, they came together to laud the city’s inclusivity in the face of the divisiveness, showing Gaines-
ville’s embracing of all cultures and creeds.
Hosted by Welcoming 
Gainesville, the “Light in Darkness” interfaith service began at the church but soon moved across the street to Gainesville’s City Hall, where a crowd of about 100 people gathered 
around the building’s steps.
“It’s important to come together, 
and I think Gainesville is bringing 
people together in different ways, 
through faith and political beliefs,” 
said Cindy Nelly, a 46-year-old Gainesville resident who attended the service.Richard MacMaster, the chair 
of Welcoming Gainesville, said he was excited with the turnout of the event.
“This was a way for the commu-
nity to come together,” he said.
UF assistant professor of reli-
gion Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons said she was proud of Gainesville’s welcoming atmosphere, especially 
through its designation as a welcom-
ing city, which means it prides itself on inviting immigrants, refugees and international students.
“There are lots of people in 
Gainesville and Alachua County that celebrate the idea of having new res-idents,” Simmons said.
Welcoming Gainesville’s interfaith service celebrates diversityBy Alexandra Northcott
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ten tiny shoes sat in a pile out-
side the room, and the laughter of 
children burst through the door as Brianna Schiavoni and her class of children struck a dead bug pose on 
a Sunday afternoon last month.
Some had spent their young 
lives battling depression, dyslexia and bipolar disorder. But as they 
contorted their bodies and quieted their minds, their symptoms sub-sided.
In Schiavoni’s eyes, yoga has 
the power to heal.
Through her business, Yoga 4 
Youth, the 34-year-old renaissance woman — she’s a mental health counselor, clinical social worker 
and yoga instructor — has chan-
nelled all of her passions to help children in the community achieve mental-health equilibrium.
Schiavoni said she wants her 
classes to be a place parents and caregivers can turn to, as they are 
often too spread-out to have the re-
sources they need for children with conditions.
“I hope to continue to build a 
community that is interested,” she said. “I feel very strongly that it 
takes a village to raise a child.”
Schiavoni’s classes, which cost 
$30 per 90-minute session or $200 
for 10 sessions, focus on the prac-
tice of mindfulness, a form of med-
itation that teaches her students 
from kindergarten to 10th grade to 
focus on the present. 
Through yoga poses, games and 
discussion, Schiavoni helps stu-
dents identify what makes them feel happy and how to create “ups” when life has them feeling “down.”
She said she has seen her stu-
dents improve their social, motor and communication skills, along with their self-esteem.
Parents, too, have noticed the 
impact the class has had on their 
children.
Christine Miller, whose 7-year-
old son Hayden Fletcher shows symptoms of attention deficit hy-
peractive disorder, said Schiavoni’s yoga therapy has helped him stay focused in school and contain his emotions.
Miller said she has worked 
with her son’s school and tried other methods to help him, but 
yoga therapy has proved to be the 
most successful, because Hayden can use what he learns in class at home.
Surrounded by other children 
struggling in their own ways, Mill-er said, Hayden feels welcome.
“Instead of being the odd one, 
it’s nice for him to feel normal for a while,” she said.
Jessica Krauth, a UF second-
year master’s student in mental health counseling, has volunteered 
with the program for the last year.
The 24-year-old said the pro-
gram gave her experience work-
ing with children she never would have gotten during the first year of her program without Yoga 4 Youth. 
She said she believes in the goals 
of Schiavoni’s program and the creative methods she uses to reach 
them.
“You can’t get a child to medi-
tate, but you can play yoga games 
with them,” Krauth said.Local children benefit from yoga-
infused mental-health counseling
Courtesy to the Alligator
Through her program, Yoga 4 Youth, 34-year-old Brianna Schiavoni 
has channelled her passions for mental-health counseling and yoga to help children in the community achieve mental-health equilibrium.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    1-5-16-11-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
WHAT A FIND FOR SPRING SEMESTER! 2/2, 3rd floor condo in Campus Edge. Vaulted ceilings, pool view, on campus. Amazing lo-cation. $1000/mo. Spring semester only. Call Aimee 352-514-0482    1-4-16-5-2
HOUSES available soon for August 2017. Walk or bike to campus. Visit www.gaines -
villequalityrentalhouses.com. Text or call 352-339-2342 if you have any questions.    1-6-16-5-2
Pink House on University availablefor Rent
Prime Location - walk or bike to class!4 bedroom / 2 Full Bath Home - completely 
renovatedNew AC system,Washer & Dryer, Sun Room,Parking, & more!AVAILABLE NOW! $1995 security depositrequired. Text (352) 317-6353for more info.$1995security deposit required         12-7-16-1-2
2BR/1BA APTS ON UNIVERSITY AVEAcross from O'Connell Center. Modern, clean. Available January or earlier. $600/mo. K&M Properities 352-372-1509    1-9-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE JAN 1ST - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122     1-13-16-15-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-16-10-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647        12-7-1-12
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Kind of basin
6 State secrets?
9 Intense dislike
14 Act poorly?
15 Run a tab, say
16 Words between
two “thanks”
17 Chef protector
18 See 8-Down19 Floorboard
support
20 Many a
Sundance film
22 Rent payer23 Registered
names: Abbr.
25 Action at the
front
28 H.S. hurdle29 Adorn32 Comical
punctuationmarks from thedrummer
34 Marshy 
lowland
35 Chihuahua, por
ejemplo
36 “__ Eyes”:
Eagles hit
37 ’60s campus gp.
38 Hieroglyphics
reptiles
41 “Do __, not ... ”
43 Work on, as a
stubborn squeak
45 Tablets’ kin48 Swingline insert49 2,170-mi. trail
terminus
50 Walk with style52 Luau music
provider
53 Wanting too
much
55 Pry58 Cookie named
for its flavor
59 Aromatic
necklace
61 Stage
performances
64 Words after miss
or skip
65 Resting place
66 Down source
67 Singer Bruni
married toNicolas Sarkozy
68 Morning cuppa
69 Amounts toDOWN
1 Leaves in a bag
2 Prankster3 “Pillow Talk”
actress
4 Lots5 Provide with for a
time
6 Montague lad7 Blow away8 With 18-Across,
Southwesterncuisine
9 Museum pieces
10 Lucy and Ethel
and Thelma andLouise
11 “Indeed!”12 Oust, in a way13 Church choral
works
21 “Eww!”22 Tibetan title23 “Angie Tribeca”
channel
24 Weak cry
26 Brand of blended
seasonings
27 Itsy-__
30 Inventor Howe31 Population
information
33 Book after Daniel35 Ulysses
threesome?39 Web irritants ...
and what appears
in each set ofpuzzle circles?
40 __-screen printing42 Faulkner’s “As __
Dying”
44 Actor Marvin of
“Cat Ballou”
45 Courvoisier, e.g.46 Speedy
Gonzales cry
47 Kitchen gadget48 OED entry51 Words for the
audience
54 Hebrew for
“skyward”
56 Oil bloc57 Hodgepodge59 Pres. sworn in on
Air Force One
60 Job listing ltrs.62 “Is it soup __?”63 Fourth-yr.
students
By Matt Skoczen©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/07/1612/07/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, December 7, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. MOVIES: What was Grace Kel-
ly’s character’s name in the movie 
“High Noon”?
2. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is 
represented in the phobia called “cryo-phobia”?
3. LITERATURE: What was the 
name of the island inhabited by tiny 
people in “Gulliver’s Travels”?
4. U.S. CITIES: What city bills itself 
as “The Sweetest Place on Earth”?
5. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Gulf 
of Riga located?
6. HISTORY: How many human 
beings have walked on the moon?
7. ART: Which post-impressionist 
painter created the series titled “Sun-
flowers”?
8. LANGUAGE: What product was 
slangily known as a “Tin Lizzie” in the 
early 20th century?
9. ASTRONOMY: What is the larg-
est planet in our solar system?
10. MUSIC: Which 1960s rock 
group recorded the hit song “A Whiter 
Shade of Pale”?
Answers
1. Amy Fowler Kane2. Fear of extreme cold, ice or frost3. Lilliput (the Lilliputians)4. Hershey, Pennsylvania, home of 
the Hershey chocolate company
5. Northern Europe6. 127. Vincent van Gogh8. Model T Ford9. Jupiter10. Procol Harum
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
December 5, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted18   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-6-16-13-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach Gardens
Palm Beach County, FL
Responsible Lawyer
Douglas A. Willis
Reasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-
21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305       12-7-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDPart-time, hourly - Garden upgrade & maintenance. Will train. Near UF.
Call 352-505-5254      12-7-5-14
Want to make a positive impact in the lives of girls in this community? Visit GirlsPlace.net/employment to apply. Hiring for multiple positions.      12-7-16-5-14
We are seeking for graphic designers that want to do something different from the or-dinary. What we want is talent, passion, mo-tivation and a solution-oriented approach. Students or fresh graduated. Our studio: www.dibari-id.com If you are interested please contact us at: carnovali@dibari-id.com     12-7-16-3-14
We are seeking for creative copywriters who are looking for a chance to set their creativ-ity free. We want passion, motivation and a extraordinary talent in creative writing. Students or fresh graduated. Our design stu-dio: www.dibari-id.com Contact: carnovali@dibari-id.com    12-7-16-3-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '17
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-13-16-11-14
LIFEGUARDS- THE 300 CLUBPart-time opportunities for lifeguards at pri-vate pool centrally located in Gville. Flexible hours available. Lifeguard responsibilities including pool maintenance. 352-262-4329   1-5-16-3-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497       12-7-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Jalen T abor's pick-6 against 
Missouri was one of the most memorable moments of fall, but there were many others. For our most iconic photos of the Fall semester, see pg. 23 Six UF football players named to All-SEC T eams
The list was headlined by cornerback Jalen T abor, who made the Coaches' 
All-SEC First T eam. Martez Ivey, Caleb Brantley, Quincy Wilson., Jarrad Davis and Johnny T ownsend were all second-team selections. By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Florida coach Mike White watched 
No. 5 Duke seize the lead with a 15-3 
run going into halftime.
After a sequence of sloppy fouls and 
questionable passes, the flustered coach succinctly addressed why Florida was struggling to defend the Blue Devils.
“They’re really good. We’re not as 
good," White said. "Hopefully we’ll be 
as good in the second half.” 
But White and the Gators never quite 
narrowed their deficit at the Jimmy V 
Classic on Tuesday night, as No. 21 
Florida lost to Duke, 84-74, at Madison 
Square Garden.
Sophomore Luke Kennard might as 
well have been in his high school gym. The Duke sophomore scored 29 points on the Gators, making 5-of-7 from three-
point range. 
“Once you see a couple go in, I mean 
you feel a little confident,” Kennard said 
after the game. 
“It felt good tonight, I’ll admit that.”
Sophomore guard KeVaughn Allen 
led Florida on offense with 21 points on 
8-of-12 shooting. 
The Gators found themselves in an 
unexpected position early: in the lead. Florida outshot and outrebounded Duke, and hadn’t committed a foul through most of the first half.
But as Florida (7-2) began to rest its 
starters, the Blue Devils (9-1) began to capitalize on UF’s mistakes. Duke scored on turnovers from second-unit players 
Chris Chiozza and Keith Stone. Canyon 
Barry — whose dad scored 57 points in the Garden against the Knicks during his NBA playing career — couldn’t buy a three. 
By halftime, Florida had nine turn-
overs. 
“Turnovers are just killing us offen-
sively,” White said at the half. “Playing 
with jitters, playing a little bit too fast. 
We’re killing our defense.”
The second half wasn’t any easier on 
the Gators. Duke went from shooting 48 percent in the first period to 61 percent 
in the second.
Florida’s big men couldn’t slow down 
forwards Amile Jefferson or Jayson Ta-
tum, who scored 24 and 22 points, re-
spectively. 
In addition, Duke had three players 
score 20 points. 
Each time the Gators tried to climb 
back into the game, Duke went on a scoring run. Florida cut the lead to Florida can’t stop 
Kennard as No. 21 Gators 
lose to No. 5 Duke
The Associated Press
Luke Kennard (5) attempts a layup during Duke's win over the Gators on Tuesday. Kennard 
led the Blue Devils with 29 points. 
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE22
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Back in October, Florida golfer 
Gordon Neale received a text.
It contained an old picture 
from his dad of 10-year-old Neale 
at a tournament.
Alongside Neale were two oth-
er people, a golfer and his dad.
That golfer?His future roommate and UF 
teammate Sam Horsfield.
“It’s crazy to look back, you 
know?” Horsfield said. “We’re both not even five-feet tall and we’re whacking it around.“I’ve known Gordon for a long 
time.”
They have, but for most of 
the time, it was on a competitive level.
Horsfield lived in Florida, 
while Neale was across the coun-
try in California.
The three time zones sepa-
rating the two meant they only 
competed together in a handful of tournaments every year.
When they crossed paths, 
Horsfield and Neale would greet each other on the greens, but that was where the formalities ended.
Each would try to prove he was better than the other.
They didn’t know each other 
as well then, and at the time, it 
seemed as if their relationship 
would remain on the greens.
But once both players came to 
Florida, their friendship quick-
ly became what it is now: one 
formed by their love of golf.
“When we got to school, we 
kinda found out we were similar,” Neale said. “We like the same mu-
sic, we like to do the same things 
and we kinda ended up going to dinner together and playing to-gether. We became best friends.”•   •   • 
It was the first long weekend 
of the semester, which meant the men’s golf team’s first break from practice. 
Horsfield was planning on go-
ing back to his home in Davenport for a few days when he noticed Neale was going to be staying in Gainesville.
Horsfield asked Neale to join 
him, and their friendship began.
“I don’t really know how to 
describe it,” Horsfield said. “My parents, they didn’t care about 
him coming and staying at my 
house.”For Neale, the Horsfield house-
hold became like a second home, and their relationship began to flourish. It extended beyond just 
living together and grabbing an 
occasional meal.
Rather, it turned into the two 
becoming best friends, spending time playing rounds on the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville 
and hanging out with their room-mates in the common area of their dorm.
“It just kinda grew. It wasn’t 
one specific thing that we became 
Horsfield, Neale form bond, push each other to improveMEN’S GOLF
SEE GOLF,  PAGE20DUKE 84, FLORIDA 7420   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gordon Neale chips the ball during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course. Neale came to UF from California.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsﬁ  eld prepares to putt during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. Horsﬁ  eld won three tournaments in his ﬁ  rst year at Florida.
boys,” Horsﬁ  eld said. “It was just 
kinda a lot of little things.”
Little things like eating at the 
dining halls nearly every night, spending time listening to their music while studying, and putting in countless hours on the greens 
together made them closer.
And from bonding over their 
shared interests, they learned 
how much their personalities mesh and how much they feed off 
each other on the golf course.
“Sometimes it’s a little frustrat-
ing because (Horsﬁ  eld’s) so lazy 
and never practices,” Neale said. 
“But he never needs to because 
he rolls out of bed and shoots 65.”
For Horsﬁ  eld, that natural tal-
ent on the greens showed early. In his ﬁ  rst year at Florida, he won 
three tournaments and earned 
ﬁ  ve other top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes.
This fall, Horsﬁ  eld grabbed 
two top-10 ﬁ  nishes in four tour-
naments, something he said he 
wants to improve upon come spring.
Meanwhile, Neale emerged as 
a late leader of the golf team at 
the end of his freshman year.
During his time at Florida, he 
nabbed three top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes, 
including a fourth-place ﬁ  nish 
at the Southeastern Conference 
Championship in the Spring.
In his ﬁ  rst tournament, the 
Mason Rudolph Championship, 
he ﬁ  nished second behind Hors-ﬁ  eld, a ﬁ  tting testament to just 
how much time they practiced to-
gether and how much better they 
make each other.
“Playing with him a lot re-
ally helped my golf game,” Neale 
said. “Personally, I think he’s one 
of the top-50 golfers in the world 
right now, professionals includ-ed.”
•   •   •Neale and Horsﬁ  eld were com-
peting at the 2014 Junior Players 
Championship in Ponte Vedra 
Beach in their last year on the amateur circuit before leaving for college.
At the time, Horsﬁ  eld was 
committed to Florida. Neale was still looking around.
But between rounds at the Ju-
nior Players, the two golfers be-
gan talking, reigniting a moment 
from nearly seven years prior that started Neale on the path to en-rolling at Florida.
“(Horsﬁ  eld) and his dad and 
my dad and me were all talking, and they apparently said some really nice things to the coaches about me,” Neale said.
Horsﬁ  eld generated some in-
terest for Neale at Florida, and soon UF offered Neale a scholar-ship.
And just like their relationship 
outside of golf, the duo was near-ly inseparable on the greens.
“He’s playing unbelievable,” 
Neale said. 
“Having a guy like that to 
play with every day and compare yourself to and see what he’s do-ing with his game that you could 
be doing to yours, it helps a lot.”
They practice together nearly 
every day and help improve each 
other’s play.
And it shows, as both have 
emerged as team leaders, consis-tently ﬁ  nishing the best among Florida’s ﬁ  ve golfers. The im-proved results are a testament to 
their chemistry. 
“For him to come here and 
push me … it has really helped 
my game out and (helped me) see where I need to improve,” Hors-
ﬁ  eld said.
“I keep him in check and he 
keeps me in check.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org GOLF,  from pg.19The two are roomatesWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   21
INJURED CREW BOY
I still remember that ﬁ  rst phone 
call. It’d be hard not to, consider-ing how much I didn’t want to ﬁ  eld it.
It was an autumn Saturday. 
The weather that morning was nice — well, rowable at the very least.
I was exhausted. Famished. 
Drenched in an unholy combination of sweat and lake water.
Dragging my feet, I climbed the 
ﬂ  ight of stairs to my second-story apartment, solely concerned with eating my weight in breakfast, taking a warm shower and 
crushing a nap.
I didn’t want to answer that call. It isn’t 
entirely my fault — steady state rowing drains 
the soul out of men. And if I could barely hold a coherent conversation with my roommate, how the hell was I supposed to carry one with an unknown number?
Yet, my phone rang. Somehow, I picked it 
up. And here I am, three semesters later.
It’s hard to quantify just how gratifying my 
experience at the Alligator was. In between 
late-night copy-editing shifts and impromptu 
Nerf wars was a journalistic crash course that no formal education could ever replicate. I was gifted the chance to cultivate my own, unique 
voice at the largest student-run newspaper in 
the nation.
But beyond that, writing for this paper 
helped me realize just what it was that I want-ed to do with my life. And, at the risk of sound-ing cheesier than a three-course meal at The Melting Pot, there are a slew of individuals re-sponsible for that epiphany.
Thank you, Emily Cochrane, for instilling 
the fear of God in me each time we sat down to 
review my feature on gymnastics coach Adrian Burde.
Thank you, Jordan McPherson, 
for pushing me to my wits’ end 
whenever I had to fact check one of your stat-laden masterpieces. Thank 
you, Ian Cohen, for patiently dealing 
with both my incessant breaches of AP Style and overblown vocabulary. And thank you, Graham Hall, for taking that initial shot by hiring a business administration major.
To the countless others that I’m 
undoubtedly forgetting — thanks for some of the greatest memories I’ll ever make.
For hiding my ﬂ  ip ﬂ  ops in plain sight, 
prompting me to grab dinner at Bento bare-foot. For accepting the “crew boys,” a trio of rowers-turned-writers equally (in)famous for our mediocre social skills as we were for our blistered hands. For assuring me that the rat I saw scurrying through the sports bullpen on my ﬁ  rst day of work was far from the worst thing our old, dilapidated home had seen.
In his book “The Boys in the Boat”, author 
Daniel James Brown recounts a conversation 
that the famed boat builder George Pocock had 
with Joe Rantz, a rower at the University of Washington.
Pocock compared the construction of a rac-
ing shell to religion — to build a quality boat, you must completely surrender yourself to it, leaving a piece of yourself behind with it for-ever.  
“Rowing,” he said, “is like that. And a lot of 
life is like that too, the parts that really matter anyway.”
Who would’ve thought that writing for the 
Alligator could have the same effect?
C’mon, Emily — it might have been a cli-
ché, but at least it made for a decent kicker.
  On things, both sporting and sillyFEARSOME MCPHERSON
I still have the emails from my freshman year — three of them from former alligatorS-ports editor Phillip Heilman.
The ﬁ  rst, in summary: Con-
gratulations. We want you to be a copy editor for the sports section.
The second, sent a half hour 
later: Sorry, we don’t have a job to offer you.
The third, about two hours af-
ter that: Did you get two emails? Weird. We want you to work for us. Show up Monday.
Almost three-and-a-half years later, it’s 
hard to believe this is the last article I will write for The Independent Florida Alligator.
Since my freshman year, the Alligator has 
been my second home. It’s where I learned how to be a journalist. It’s where I’ve made some of my closest friends, a family bonded over quality reporting, fried-chicken potlucks, Election Night pizza and late-night jam ses-
sions. It’s where I spent sleepless nights — a 
lot of sleepless nights — making memories that will last a lifetime.
There was my freshman year when a 
group of 10 of us sat in the Avenue room and watched a bootlegged version of “Frozen” on an editor’s laptop.
There were the three years of football road 
trips, with stops in New Orleans (really Baton 
Rouge, but who honestly says that when they 
can say New Orleans?), Nashville and Lexing-ton among others along the way and a new set of incredible reporters and photographers each year.
There was the time a JJ Schwarz foul ball 
ﬂ  ew into the McKethan Stadium press box and nearly killed me and the 98 mph fastball from A.J. Puk that struck me in the back after it ricocheted into the ﬁ  rst-base photo well. 
There was the time I almost 
wrote that a UF athlete, who shall 
remain nameless, was a “bad ass 
bitch” on the sports front (for the record, the statement was and still is true to this day in the most positive way possible). Good times.
And there were the stories 
I had the opportunity to tell. About the vol-leyball player who gave up the sport for her 
health. About the softball team paving its 
way to its ﬁ  rst national title. About the foot-ball coach who brought the Gators back to the Southeastern Conference Championship Game in his ﬁ  rst season (and again one year later).
But beyond the day-to-day grind and 50-
plus hour work weeks, the breaking news and the features and the overly stat-heavy stories (sorry again, copy editors), there were the 
friendships forged that will last long after we 
all walk out of the building one last time.
Those will be cherished more than any by-
line.
To anyone and everyone else who I’ve had 
the pleasure to work with over these last three-and-a-half years — and there’s a lot of you — thank you for the support, encouragement and memories. 
Through the good times and the bad, we’ve 
all pushed each other to get better every day. And through the good times and the bad, we put out a paper every day — and a damn good one at that.
I’m grateful for the opportunity, even if it 
took three emails to know whether or not I actually had it.  Writer, editor leaves after  three years
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
Alejandro 
López
twitter: ajlb9522   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
INTERN
OF THE SEMESTER
FALL 2016
ZOI MILONOPULOS
food resource economics
CONGRA TULATIONS!seven points halfway through the second, only to have Kennard hit 
a three followed by an open layup for Tatum on the next possession. “I thought we shared the ball,” 
Kennard said. 
“Defense leads to great offense for us and overall it was a really big win.”
A television broadcast contrib-uted to this report.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg.19Duke's Luke Kennard: 'Overall its was a really big win'
The Associated Press
Duke's Grayson Allen (middle) attempts a layup during his team's win over Florida 
on Tuesday in Madison Square Garden. 
The Associated Press
Florida's Justin Leon attemps a layup during UF's loss to Duke. He ﬁ  nished with seven points. 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   23 
With most of Florida’s fall 
sports having concluded, take a 
look back at some of our most 
iconic photos from the past 
semester. BEST SPORTS PHOTOS OF THE FALL SEMESTER
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor returns an interception for a touchdown during Florida’s win over Missouri on Oct. 15. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan shoots the ball during Florida’s 5-2 win over Iowa 
State on Aug. 19 at James G. Pressley Stadium.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (1) attempts a kill during Florida’s 3-0 win over Ole Miss on Oct. 28 in the Lemerand Athletic Center. 
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Senior Spencer Liang returns a ball during the 2016 ITA Regionals in October at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kicker Eddy Pineiro (top) hugs defensive lineman Jordan Sherit during Florida’s win over Kentucky on Sept. 10 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
24   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2016
