By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
For the first time, two UF stu-
dents were crowned at the an-
nual Miss UF pageant.
Miss Florida Gator and Miss 
University of Florida received their crowns on stage before a crowd of more than 200 people 
Monday night as the pageant cel-
ebrated its 60th anniversary. 
More sponsors than past years 
allowed the pageant to have money for two winners, said Ju-
lia Branton, an assistant director of the pageant.
Savannah Judkins (Miss Uni-
versity of Florida), a UF adver-
tising junior, and Rachel Smith (Miss Florida Gator), a UF tele-communication senior, stood on-stage with 15 other contestants 
at the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts after winning their titles.
Judkins, 21, sponsored by 
Kappa Delta Sorority, won a $1,250 scholarship, a crown and gift cards from businesses across Gainesville. 
Smith, sponsored by Delta Delta Delta Sorority, won a $500 scholarship.
Judkins represented “From 
Houses to Homes,” a foster care advocacy organization she hopes to start, as her platform. 
She said as someone who was 
adopted and avoided the foster 
care system, she wants to do ev-
erything she can for children who aren’t as lucky as she was.
“Kids aren’t given what they 
need to succeed, and we need to take our civic responsibility to make sure they get the necessary tools they need,” she said.
She said she wants to go to 
law school to practice real estate  By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
Craft spirits such as blueber-
ry-infused vodka are coming to downtown Gainesville in late 
May.
Fish Hawk Spirits will open a 
tasting room in what used to be 
the 2nd Street Speakeasy, situ-
ated at 21 SW Second St.
Dave Molyneaux, the compa-
ny’s CEO, said First Hawk Spir-
its has a distillery in Ocala, Flor-ida, but the Gainesville business 
will be its ﬁ  rst tasting room.
Along with tours and mer-
chandise, he said the location 
will offer spirits made with wa-
ter from Rainbow Springs, in-
cluding a bottle of brandy made with 60 tangerines.
“Everything is done by 
hand,” Molyneaux said. “We crack the almonds. We press the tangerines. We distill our spir-its.”
The tasting room will feature 
ﬂ  avors not available to distribu-tors, such as whiskey made with a hybrid called silver queen corn, along with six new vodka ﬂ  avors.
Molyneaux said Fish Hawk 
Spirits is not legally allowed to 
function as a bar, so the com-
pany will sell bottles among its free samples.  
Not long after opening, he 
said the business will become a 
stop on local bike tours, which 
will take riders to bars and res-taurants that serve its distilled beverages.
The spirits range from $20 to 
$200, he said.  
Matthew Bagdanovich, the 
chief master distiller, said the tasting room will bring more 
than just alcohol to the city.
“Florida is opening its eyes to 
a whole new craft spirits move-
ment, and Gainesville is going to 
be the center of that,” he said. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 113 TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
Florida track and ﬁ  eld will 
compete in the NCAA Indoors on 
Friday
It’s UF’s last meet of the indoor season, pg.13
Research Roundup
Chameleons, termites and alligators, oh my! pg. 3
UF Health Shands expansion to house two 
hospitals
The hospitals will be completed in 2018, pg. 5‘Our Three Brothers’: Students hold vigil for Indiana victims  
Check out the story and photos from the 
vigil,  pg. 8
Miss UF hosts 60th pageantAlcohol tasting room 
to open downtown
SEE PAGEANT,  PAGE 4Alligator Staff 
Fish Hawk Spirits, a tasting room, will open in downtown 
Gainesville and be located at 21 SW Second St.Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Savannah Judkins, a UF advertising junior, is crowned Miss University of Florida by previous Miss Uni-versity of Florida T aylor Pohl on Monday night at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts. Judkins, whose talent was singing, wishes to promote programs beneﬁ  ting children in the foster care system.BUSINESS
About 200 people attended
“Everything is done by hand. 
W e crack the almonds. W e 
press the tangerines. W e 
distill our spirits.”
Dave Molyneaux
Fish Hawk Spirits CEO
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology 
Building, situated at 970 Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum 
of Art. Everyone is welcome 
to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org or the Talking 
Gators Facebook group page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience 
in which members are em-powered to develop commu-nication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confi-
dence and personal growth.”
National Women’s Liberation 
meetingNational Women’s Liberation 
will hold a campus meeting this Wednesday in Little Hall, Room 119 from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. This month, the group will 
finalize plans for an upcom-
ing Women’s History Month event to be held at the Wooly in downtown Gainesville on 
March 15. Help to build a 
grassroots feminist movement in Gainesville! More informa-tion on NWL can be found at www.womensliberation.org.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Renaissance Festival themed 
event Friday from 8 p.m. un-
til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a rock climbing wall, crafts and face painting. The event will also 
feature two showings of the 
movie “Creed” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and 
pool tables will also be a part 
of the GatorNights event. The night will end with free pizza during Midnight Munchies. This event is free 
for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to partici-pate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
Florida Museum of Natural 
History hosts “Can You Dig It?” on March 12Discover the earth at your feet during this free, fun-for-all-ages geology event. Enjoy 
hands-on activities from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. and watch dem-onstrations of volcanic erup-tions. Presented in part by the 
UF Department of Geological 
Sciences. For more informa-tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/cany-oudigit or call 352-273-2064.
Pride Awareness Month
The Pride Awareness Month’s opening ceremonies will take place Monday, March 14, 
at 6 p.m. in the University 
Auditorium. This year’s key-note speaker will be Alicia Garza. An established social activist, Alicia Garza prompted 
activism nationwide when she 
— together with Opal Tometi and Patrisse Cullors — intro-duced the world to the Twitter 
hashtag, #BlackLivesMatter. 
The hashtag has evolved into the banner under which this generation’s civil rights move-ment marches. 
Committed to challenging 
society to recognize and cel-ebrate the contributions of all individuals, specifically black 
people and queer communi-
ties, Garza’s activism is rooted in organizational strategies and visions to connect indi-viduals and emerging social 
movements. Her work has 
earned her various honors, including two Harvey Milk Democratic Club Community 
Activist Awards, for her work 
fighting gentrification and en-vironmental racism in San Francisco’s largest remaining black community.
Apply Now for 2016-17 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to 
receive the results of your 
FAFSA from the federal pro-cessor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to 
ensure that the federal proces-
sor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to the UF Office of Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid 
is awarded on a first-come, 
first-served basis so apply as early as possible to be con-sidered for the most and best aid. In order for UF Student Financial Affairs to consider 
you for a financial aid pack-
age, you must be an admit-ted student and have met the “On-Time” deadline. For more 
information or assistance with 
completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
‘She’s Beautiful When She’s 
Angry’National Women’s Liberation 
presents a screening of “She’s 
Beautiful When She’s Angry” on Tuesday, March 15, at the Wooly, situated at 20 N. Main Street in downtown 
Gainesville. Doors open at 
6:30 p.m. The film begins at 7 p.m., and a panel discus-sion will immediately follow. 
Tickets are $5 to $10 on a slid-
ing scale. This documentary resurrects the buried history of the women who founded the modern women’s movement 
from 1966 to 1971. 
“She’s Beautiful” takes us from the founding of the National Organization for 
Women (NOW) to the emer-
gence of more radical factions of women’s liberation. It does not shy away from controver-sies over race, sexual prefer-
ence and leadership that arose 
in the women’s movement. This event is co-sponsored by Gainesville Area NOW.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.
org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event be-
fore 5 p.m. Please model your 
submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 113
HIGH  81° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Researcher finds possible ancestor 
of modern chameleon
A Florida Museum of Natural History researcher has 
helped discover the fossilized remains of a dozen lizards 
encased in amber from 99 million years ago.
The ﬁ  ndings were published Friday in the journal Sci-
ence Advances. The fossils were sent to the American Museum of Natural History, said Edward Stanley, a post-doctoral researcher at the Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory. He and other researchers used a micro-CT scanner 
to ﬁ  nd the small fossils.
A 3-D printer at UF’s Nanoscale Research Facility was 
used to enlarge the images from the scanner, he said. This helped researchers better understand their anatomy.
“We could dissect them without harming the original 
specimens,” he said.
The amber, which acted as a protective bubble around 
the fossilized specimens, preserved the lizards, he said. 
Researchers could see more detail than in previous fos-
sils.
“This helps us date the age of various different events 
in the lizard tree of life,” Stanley said.
He said he believes they found the ancestor of the 
modern chameleon.
“This chameleon is interesting because it isn’t actually 
a chameleon,” Stanley said. “It is an animal on its way to 
becoming a chameleon.”
Stanley said he expects these new fossils will help 
with research.
“This discovery does a lot for us,” he said. “It’s a miss-
ing link.”
- Meryl KornfieldResearch shows South Florida 
buildings at risk of termites
Two UF researchers found half of South Florida 
buildings could be at risk of infestation from below-
ground termites by 2040.
Two invasive termite species, the Asian and For-
mosan subterranean termites, pose the largest threat, said Nan-Yao Su, a UF professor of entomology. The research team determined the growth of the subter-
ranean termite population by comparing the current 
population size to the past, using studies conducted in the 1980s, Su said.
The colonies can be up to 300 feet long and contain 
millions of termites, Su said. The termites live in the 
ground and eat the wood in buildings.
Su said South Florida is more at risk than other areas 
of the country because of its high temperatures, which 
leads to a longer and more active period for termites.
Su said he has seen roofs collapse because of ter-
mites.
He said climate change, not rising sea levels, is one 
reason more South Florida structures will be at risk. Rising temperatures also allow termites to move north.
Subterranean termite populations can be controlled 
using bait, he said. A slow-acting pesticide is spread throughout the colony, killing the termites.
Pesticides can also be injected into the soil. This is 
not as effective, however, and they usually move to the next available structure close by, such as a neighbor’s house, Su said.
“Anything that is wood is at risk,” he said.
- John Avery GuytonStudy finds positive relationship 
between alligators and birds
A study has found there is a positive relationship be-
tween alligators and wading birds.
UF researchers knew alligators protected wading 
birds’ nests from predators, but they were curious to 
know if alligators beneﬁ  tted, said Peter Frederick, a re-searcher and professor in the UF wildlife ecology and conservation department. They found female breeding 
alligators near nesting sites to be healthier.
To conduct their study, UF researchers caught 39 fe-
male breeding alligators in the Everglades, he said. Dur-
ing the two breeding seasons the research was conduct-ed, researchers discovered alligators under a bird colony 
weighed signiﬁ  cantly more.
This was because wading birds produce more chicks 
than are able to survive, Frederick said. The alligators 
use chicks who don’t survive as food. This allows the 
alligators to be healthier for their breeding season.
“I was not surprised by the fact that there are positive 
interactions,” Frederick said. “But I was very surprised by the strength of the interactions.”
It is estimated that the food produced from the chicks 
could support the entire female alligator breeding popu-
lation in the Everglades, said Lucas Nell, a former UF wildlife ecology graduate student who headed the re-
search.
Frederick said the research will help scientists better 
understand the alligators’ and wading birds’ relationship.
“I think this contributes to our general knowledge 
about the way ecosystems work,” he said.
- Monica Humphries4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
law in the future, but in her 
free time she wants to do pro bono work for foster cares and 
group homes.
Platforms are the most im-
portant part of the pageant, 
said Branton. 
The platforms can be based 
on whatever the girls choose, she said.
“I know one girl this year 
had anorexia in the past, and 
she chose to make that known 
and inform the public about that. It’s usually something that’s very close to home for them,” she said.
The 17 contestants com-
peted in four categories: ques-tions, swimwear, talent and evening wear.
Talents ranged from sing-
ing and playing piano to sand animation, and each contes-tant represented a platform she is passionate about. Judkins said she got in-
volved in the pageant because of her love of singing.“I love singing, and I 
missed singing on stage and really wanted an outlet to do that,” she said.
Judkins said she didn’t ex-
pect to win.
“I’m at a loss for words if 
I’m being totally honest,” she said.
She said she will spend the 
coming months preparing for the Miss Florida competition in June.
“I’ll just be preparing for 
that up until the competition,” she said. 
“The former Miss UF and 
Miss Florida is in my sorority, 
and it’s been so cool watching 
her success, and now I get to try to do the same,” she said.
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.orgPAGEANT,  from pg 1Contestents competed in four different categoriesIT TOOK A MONTH TO 
REDO THE WEBSITE.
By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Staff and students from UF’s Col-
lege of Education have revamped its 
website. 
Tom Dana, the associate dean for 
academic affairs, and Jason Arnold, 
the associate director of e-Learning, 
technology and creative services for the college, spearheaded the recent relaunch. Two students also worked on it.
The new website took a month 
to complete and a year to plan, Dana said. The college wanted to make the website student-friendly.
“The website needed to be more 
student-focused and needed to be focused on recruiting students to the University of Florida and retaining them once they get here,” he said. Data he collected showed the 
website’s visitors were primarily looking for student services, includ-ing programs offered at the college, Dana said. 
The first thing students see on 
the new website is a link to all pro-grams offered, which is the main item students search for, Arnold said.   
Kendall Messersmith, a UF ele-
mentary education junior, said she’s glad the college redid its website. 
“By taking pride in the new web-
site, the College of Education is tak-
ing pride in itself and the work be-
ing done,” the 21-year-old said. 
When students first enter the 
website, they see a slideshow of the college’s honors, monetary awards and student profiles. 
“We want to give all students ac-
cess to what it’s like to be a part of the community that we have on-site 
here at Norman Hall and around the 
university,” Arnold said.UF College of Education launches website redesign
Courtesy to the Alligator 
This is a screenshot of the new webiste for the UF College of Education. It took a year to plan the 
design of the website and a month to redesign it.
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
After graduating from UF and returning 
home, Joseph Grutta found his friends had 
moved away.
Inspired by his situation, Grutta developed 
Far or Near, a social net-
work to help students con-
nect with people who share similar interests.
The free website can 
be used to create organiza-tions, coordinate events and subscribe to hobbies. The 
website is not available as a mobile app. 
Grutta said users can search within their 
geographic area for people who share interests such as dance, photography and rock climbing.
“I went around finding different popular in-
terests, making sure there was something for everyone,” he said.
Grutta does not currently profit from the 
website, but said he plans to incorporate ads catered to the user’s experience or take a 
portion of the admission fee from users who 
charge for an event.
The website will remain free to use in both 
cases, Grutta said.
“The big thing is that it’s so hard to find peo-
ple that share your hobbies,” he said. “There are sites where you can create or find groups in your area, but they charge you to do that.”
Looking forward, Grutta said he wants the 
website to help users find and manage organi-zations. Many UF groups, including all fraterni-ties and sororities, have been added, he said.
The software, he said, allows students to 
upload their class schedules — only available to group officers and administrators — and co-ordinate meeting times.
Luke Bickell, an 18-year-old UF computer 
science freshman, said the website was a cool 
concept.
“It can be tough for larger groups to find 
a time that works for everyone,” said Bickell, 
a member of the Treble Makers and Theatre Strike Force.UF alumnus 
creates social network site By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police charged a man — whom 
they believe is responsible for a string of inde-
cent exposures — with one of the incidents.
Police are unsure if one man is responsible 
for the exposures that happened both on and off UF campus.
On Jan. 14, Gainesville resident Willie 
Strawder, 29, entered Three Rivers Legal Ser-vices and exposed himself to a receptionist, GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
Strawder stared at her from outside the 
glass window while holding his crotch, ac-cording to the email. He then walked into the waiting room and sat down.When asked if he was waiting to see some-
one, Strawder said no, according to the email.
The receptionist allowed him to stay and 
continued to work at her desk, according to 
the email. After looking up, she saw Strawder standing in the corner of the lobby, 
exposing his penis and 
masturbating.
Strawder was gone after 
the woman returned from 
getting help, according to the email. 
About a month later, after multiple expo-
sures by unknown suspects, Strawder was ar-rested for trespassing at Fat Daddy’s Bar in 
Midtown, Tobias wrote.
After conducting a photo lineup, the re-ceptionist identified Strawder, Tobias wrote. 
He matched witness descriptions from other 
exposures, but no other women could identify 
his photo, Tobias said.
Due to the fact that indecent exposure is 
a misdemeanor, police cannot hold Strawder accountable for the other exposures without 
witnessing the crime, Tobias wrote.
In response, GPD has issued a sworn 
complaint to the State Attorney’s Office, GPD 
spokesman officer Ben Tobias wrote in a sep-
arate email.
Authorities took Strawder to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, he re-
mains in lieu of a $2,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice charge man after indecent exposure
Grutta
CRIME
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Newly crowned Miss University of Florida Savannah Judkins 
smiles to the audience alongside the new Miss Florida Gator, Rachel Smith, a UF telecommunication senior. 
Strawder
TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Two new UF Health Shands 
Hospital buildings will be com-
pleted in 2018.
The buildings will house the 
Heart and Vascular Hospital and Neuromedicine Hospital, said Brad Pollitt, the UF Health Shands 
vice president of facilities. 
The departments are currently 
in the main hospital. The build-
ings are expected to open by Feb-ruary or March 2018.
The cost of this project is $415 million, wrote Rossana Passaniti, UF Health’s media relation man-ager, in an email.
The vertical construction in 
which the structure of the build-ing is built is complete. 
Construction workers are now 
building the interior walls. 
Pollitt said about 30 percent of 
the hospitals are complete.
“We are hoping to beat that 
opening date, and we are on 
track to do so,” he said.
The two buildings together 
will be about 530,000 square feet, 
and a 600-spot parking garage will be built, Pollitt said. 
The buildings will include out-
patient clinics, ICU beds and 20 
operating rooms.
“We now have two places for 
patients to go that is designed 
just for their needs,” Pollitt said. 
“It will be a lot more streamlined 
and efficient.”
Rahul Benda, a UF chemical 
engineering sophomore on the pre-medicine track, said he ex-
pects it will be easier having the 
new buildings.
“The current structure is very 
built upon and maze-like,” the 19-year-old said.
He said it will be simpler for 
the patients to get the care they need with buildings for a specific purpose.
The new buildings will still 
be connected to the main Shands Hospital by a tunnel and bridge, Pollitt said.
“We have world-class physi-
cians here, and it gives us an op-portunity to have a world-class facility to support them,” he said.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgUF Health Shands expansion to house two hospitals
Expansion Features
• 216 rooms total
• 20 operating rooms
• Five cath labs (which 
will have heart imaging technology, including X-rays and electrocardiograms)
• Five general operating rooms
• 10 hybrid operating rooms (for less invasive surgeries)
• Two rooms with MRI machinesINTERNATIONAL
By Cecilia Lemus
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will help veterinary students in 
Ecuador start a program to help animals this 
summer.
Students in the College of Veterinary Medi-
cine started volunteering in Ecuador in the 
1990s through the veterinary division of UF’s 
Project HEAL (Health, Education, and Learn-ing), which provides free animal care to resi-dents of impoverished areas. 
This June, UF students will help veterinary 
students at Universidad Central in Quito, Ec-uador, set up their own HEAL program to help members of local communities.
The annual trip to Ecuador costs more than 
$1,000, not including lodging and bus. This year, 17 students will spay and neuter animals for 10 days.
In past years, UF veterinary students have 
partnered with the Universidad Central to pro-vide services for animals in Quito, said Owen Rae, Project HEAL’s advisor. 
He said students on the trip work with lim-
ited resources, sometimes performing opera-
tions without electricity.
“A school room without windows or elec-
tricity can become an exam room, a surgical 
preparation room,” he said.Daniela Isaza, treasurer of Project HEAL, 
said students rely on surgical supplies donated by companies.
“We don’t have access to the same things 
we have access to over here,” the 25-year-old said.
Jennifer Katona, president of Project HEAL, 
said she went on the trip last year and has been planning this year’s trip since July 2015.
“We go every year to do three days of 
spay-and-neuter and two days of large animal health,” the 24-year-old UF veterinary gradu-
ate student said. “We see all types of animals, 
all the way from guinea pigs to pigs, sheep, horses, cows, dogs and cats, the occasional al-paca or llama.”
While the trip focuses on performing spay-
and-neuter operations, Katona said students also perform wellness checks on animals. 
Last summer, Project HEAL provided care 
to more than 160 small animals and 300 large 
animals.
She said she is looking forward to helping 
more animals this summer as UF students help 
the students of Universidad Central start their own HEAL program.
“The people of Ecuador are lovely and they 
have a lot of animals,” Katona said. “But we can definitely help, and it is definitely a re-warding experience.”Students to help launch Ecuador spay-and-neuter program
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF students in the veterinary division of UF’s Project HEAL (Health, Education and 
Learning) pose for a photo with Ecuadorian farmers. UF students are helping Ecua-dorian veterinary students set up their own HEAL program to provide free animal health care to residents of impoverished areas.
They will be completed in 2018The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Our brothers’ 
keepers: terrorism in 
Iraq and the media
From Feb. 28 to Feb. 29, during UF’s ﬁ  rst weekend of 
Spring Break, the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the massacre of 118 Iraqis through targeted suicide 
bombings in Baghdad. In fact, this past February alone, 
the Islamic State left 410 Iraqi civilians dead and 1,050 in-
jured. While the attacks in Baghdad should remind us all of the tragedy in Paris last November, they are receiving substantially 
less attention.
We at the Alligator do not wish to lambast the media on 
an inquisition of political correctness or in any way diminish 
the unspeakable trauma of Nov. 13, nor are we suggesting that the world stop every time tragedy befalls it. But the fact of the 
matter is our disparity of attention toward terror attacks by the 
Islamic State not only affects the way Americans perceive the conﬂ  ict, but also how we together inﬂ  uence the Muslim Ameri-can experience.
All too often, the ﬁ  ght against the Islamic State is framed in 
terms of the West vs. Islam. Meanwhile, we forget that it’s Iraqi and Syrian civilians who face the overwhelming brunt of terror-ism by the Islamic State. As Massoud Shadjareh of the Islamic Human Rights Commission articulates: “ISIS thrives on creating 
disorder, chaos and fear – that is their (tactic) when they attack 
in Iraq or when they do it in Syria, or indeed when they do it in France and Beirut… Their policies are backed on creating fear.”
Unfortunately, much of this fear has manifested itself as is-
lamophobia in the U.S. The New York Times reported in De-cember that, since Paris and San Bernardino, the rate of sus-pected hate crimes against Muslims has tripled, with 38 violent attacks regarded as anti-Islamic. This begs the question: How successfully are we achieving our goals of national security in 
this ﬁ  ght against the Islamic State when Muslim Americans face 
such discrimination as a result of biased attention and coverage?
Admittedly, it’s easier for a majority of Americans to focus 
on domestic threats and disregard terrorism in Iraqi and Syrian 
war zones as unfortunate, collateral damage. It’s difﬁ  cult for 
many to empathize with a culture they don’t entirely under-stand. The easiest life is lived in ignorance. 
But rather than defaulting to such prejudice, we can choose 
to live by arguments like that of Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who 
told CNN, “The truth is, at some level, when you hurt, when 
your children hurt, I hurt.”
We at the Alligator feel bringing the plight of Iraqi and Syrian 
civilians into our mainstream national discussion will improve 
the overall accuracy of the American perspective toward the 
conﬂ  ict. It’s not the West against Muslims and refugees: It’s all of us, together, against the Islamic State.
In future decades, we’re going to have to explain the 2000s 
and 2010s to our curious children and grandchildren, as they 
ask us what life was like during the Syrian Civil War, the rise of 
Western Islamophobia and the conﬂ  ict against the Islamic State. They’ll ask us how involved we were in mitigating — or at least following — the shockingly frequent tragedies experienced by 
innocents in the Middle East. With the future at stake, we must 
ask ourselves now: What legacy do we want to leave behind?Column
Spring Break trips can offer so much more
When I ﬁ  rst mentioned my trip to El 
Salvador to friends, family and ac-quaintances, the overwhelming ma-jority of responses followed a cer-tain pattern. First came the raised 
eyebrows, then the inevitable question: “Is it a mission trip?” After my subsequent re-sponse that, no, I wasn’t about to build a church or spread the “good word,” came the warnings. I’ll catch the Zika virus. I’ll be kidnapped and held for ransom. I’ll get food poisoning. They ranged in degree of severity and types of consequences, but they all stemmed from a pervasive fear of “less-developed” countries despite 
supposed good intentions.
Let me start off by claiming I am not an exception-
ally adventurous person. I don’t actively seek out op-
portunities to push myself out of my comfort zone, yet when I’m presented with one, it’s unlikely I’ll turn it down. So when my best friend offered her family’s home country as a potential Spring Break destination, and I successfully placated my mother’s fear, the ﬂ  ights were booked.
El Salvador is a country plagued with violence and 
poverty: I knew that. A cursory Google search for El Salvador reveals a variety of anxiety-inducing head-lines, most citing rising murder rates, gang violence and travel warnings for U.S. citizens. Editorials like The Guardians’ “One murder every hour: How El Salvador became the homicide capital of the world” detail the effects criminal gangs have had on a country already haunted by a recent civil war and widespread poverty. 
So, I prepared myself for a slightly different trip than 
the Royal Caribbean cruise on which so many of my peers would be guzzling overpriced drink packages.
It was undeniably dissimilar. Driving out of the air-
port, we were surrounded by makeshift homes of dis-carded sheet metal, truck beds packed to the brim with passengers and unsmiling guards clutching AK-47s. The line to apply for an American visa stretched for blocks past the U.S. Embassy. Barbed wire and 20-foot walls surrounded every home and school. We had to strip ourselves of any and all jewelry before stepping outside the front door. Salvadoran friends discussed armed 
robberies in unaffected voices, characterizing 
them as inevitable realities.
Despite all this, I never felt unsafe.This could stem from a couple of different 
sources. For one, I may just be oblivious. Ad-ditionally, I was constantly surrounded not only by friends, but also by El Salvadorans 
who were so overwhelmingly caring and generous that homicide rates and barbed wire were the last things on 
our minds. But more than anything else, it was the sheer 
beauty of the land, customs and people that erased — if only for a moment — the lurking presence of danger beyond the walls.
Coming face-to-face with a country that has so much 
to offer yet cannot seem to escape a cycle of violence and oppression is a jarring experience. Above all, it forces you to re-evaluate your privilege, perspective and sheer luck. In the words of my best friend’s father, “I’m 
lucky because I get to visit and enjoy all El Salvador has 
to offer, and then I get to leave.”
Trips to underprivileged areas so often toe the line 
of voyeurism, an ethical dilemma I was constantly re-ﬂ  ecting on in the last week. Yet, only by accepting the good with the bad, the beautiful with the ugly and the picturesque scenery with the barbed wire can you truly maintain a realistic impression of the world. I could re-ally take this to the next step and philosophize the hell 
out of that realization, but I’ll spare you.
I can’t even begin to convey how grateful I am to my 
friend and her family for taking me in and pushing me 
outside my U.S.-shaped comfort zone. I never would have thought a Spring Break trip would come to mean so much.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Sometime in elemen-
tary school or one summer day while vis-
iting a zoo and being 
shown a cute and cud-
dly endangered animal, chil-dren have been taught how 
they can do their part to save 
the environment for the past two decades. All they have to do is throw trash in the correct containers. Unfortunately, it seems many 
forget this important lesson somewhere 
down the road.
Conventional wisdom supports the 
idea that bottles must be uncapped and 
rinsed to be recycled. While the former 
holds, the latter does not. Rinsing recy-clables is justiﬁ  ed for plastic contain-ers that once held food, but most plastic bottles are used for low-viscosity liquids. 
Plastic bottles are rinsed during the recy-
cling process once they reach a material recovery facility, so chugging down that last bit of soda or dumping those last few 
swigs — aside from being no good for hu-
man health those unlucky bushes — is un-necessary.
On the other hand, there is actual sci-
ence behind removing caps from plastic 
bottles. As Sierra Magazine’s lifestyle edi-
tor Josie Garthwaite explained in a spe-cial edition of NPR, caps need to be taken off plastic bottles because they’re made 
of polypropylene, while the bottles them-
selves are usually made of polyethylene terephthalate. The two cannot be recycled together due to chemical differences in the plastics, including their melting points. 
Yes, those small caps create large prob-
lems when recycling plastic bottles.
However, many students don’t take 
time out of their days to ponder the ins 
and outs of recycling, simply throwing 
their empty and uncapped bottles into the recycling bin without wondering what happens. Come to think of it, a consider-able number of students don’t even recy-
cle plastic bottles, let alone take the time 
to uncap them. 
This is because many of us like to 
think recycling fairies take care of our 
garbage for the sake of humanity. But, in real life, the government 
takes the place of such fairies. Because governments choose to 
balance budgets rather than take 
care of the environment, moni-toring and expanding recycling takes a backseat to costs. How 
proﬁ  table recyclable goods are 
depends on their demand in pri-vate markets to use as building materials. The problem is: Pollu-
tion will take hold regardless of how we 
bicker about ﬁ  nances. Consequently, I be-
lieve state and municipal governments — as well as individuals — need to step up their recycling game.
Improving recycling processes could 
spark a paradigm shift in the way we imag-ine recycling. Gross, rancid trash could soon build and fuel American homes. For example, Terreform ONE (Open Network 
Ecology), a New York-based architecture 
ﬁ  rm, is looking to erect skyscrapers out of blocks of recycled trash. As the world also looks to solve an energy crisis, engineers 
are developing uses for garbage as energy 
sources through anaerobic digestion and modern incineration.
According to an article in Nature Maga-
zine, global solid-waste generation will tri-
ple to 11 million tons per day by 2100. The 
U.S. produces a disproportionate share of the world’s garbage, even though, accord-ing to The Atlantic, around three-quarters 
of the material thrown in U.S. landﬁ  lls 
could have been diverted. 
If the future does not include a revamp 
of current recycling policies, it will likely include a world of barren wastelands in-
stead. Sometime in the near future, the 
world will have accumulated so much trash we will be forced to worry about re-cycling beyond plastic bottles. 
Although we cannot control the actions 
of others, we should all heed the lessons we learned in second grade: “We can all do our part by recycling.” The very least Americans can do is throw recyclables 
in recycle bins, especially when they are 
right next to regular trash bins.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical 
engineering freshman. His column usually 
appears on Wednesdays.How hard is it to recycle a bottle?Column
Our beliefs and values 
shape the way we look at the world and the way 
we treat it. Unfortunately, 
our paradigm of normal 
has exempted accountability for those who hold positions of power. 
When we give a person a badge 
and gun, we allow ourselves to be subjugated under the guise that we are offered safety and protection in return for our subordination. But this ex-
change has yielded up power that is not ap-
propriately checked, and it left 17-year-old Abdi Mohamed critically injured after he was shot multiple times by police ofﬁ  cers in Salt 
Lake City on Feb. 27.
We are getting too used to this narrative: 
Another unarmed, black teen was shot by 
police ofﬁ  cers. Racism these days is tricky to pinpoint because it’s no longer an individual 
act of cruelty and prejudice. It exists within 
our institutions, and white privilege is too often unacknowledged. Protests after ofﬁ  cer-involved shootings and the Black Lives Matter 
movement are aimed at exposing this insti-
tutional racism, which only becomes visible in this extreme form of public upheaval. The protests go beyond incidents of black teens getting killed by police ofﬁ  cers.
Cognitive dissonance allows our psyche to 
justify the shootings and maintain the status quo. We often victim-blame and justify the acts rather than looking at the situation as a 
whole. In this event, we rationalize the shoot-
ing of a child because “Abdi did not put down the broomstick/pipe when ofﬁ  cers instruct-ed.” But ofﬁ  cers are trained to de-escalate situations. The deeper we delve into the so-
cial and economic disadvantages Abdi faced, 
coupled with the sad but illuminating fact that black males are 21 times more likely to be shot by police than their white counterparts, 
we must face the situation for what it is. We 
must recognize and condemn this injustice before we can rectify it.
Part of what makes race so hard to talk 
about is that it poses serious challenges to the 
status quo. Changes to racist structures in our 
urban environments as well as our natural environments would threaten the existence of its proﬁ  teers. Good choices generally lead to good 
things, and bad choices will get 
you shot by police ofﬁ  cers — or so the popular narrative goes. This ﬂ  awed perspective leads people to 
assume their life achievements are 
wholly a consequence of the choic-es they made. We should recognize there are systems in place that are 
tipping the balance against the poor and mi-
norities.
A black male needs the equivalent of 10 
years of experience to be considered as a can-
didate for the same job as a white person. 
A person with a “black”-sounding name re-
ceives 50  percent fewer callbacks than an equally qualiﬁ  ed applicant with a “white”-sounding name when sending out job applica-tions. A black male is three times more likely 
to be searched at a trafﬁ  c stop. Blacks aren’t 
pulled over (and subsequently jailed) more frequently because they’re more prone to criminal behavior — they’re pulled over more 
frequently because there is an “implicit racial 
association of black Americans with danger-ous or aggressive behavior,” according to the U.S. Innocence Project.
While this article is not aimed to vilify po-
lice or target police supporters, it is meant to awaken our collective mind to the institution-al racism that exists and to rectify this need for domination. It is also a warning to all of 
us who are, by virtue of our citizenship and 
membership in this society, subjected to the authority of people with effectively unfettered power.
Power can corrupt, and the followers will-
ing to collude and make such exceptions for poor behavior should also re-evaluate their position. Our history of dominance over other people should have been stopped when we 
learned this lesson from our history books the 
ﬁ  rst time. The perpetuating cycle of domina-tion should not continue to be a part of our cultural story.
A version of this column by Andrea Kay 
Palmer originally ran in The Daily Utah Chronicle.Institutional racism fuels continued 
shootings of unarmed black peopleUWire
Andrea Kay 
Palmer
UWire
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students fought the wind to 
light candles Monday night to show 
that black Muslim lives matter.
About 20 students gathered 
on Turlington Plaza to honor 
three young men — Mohamed-
taha Omar, 23, Adam Mekki, 20, and Muhannad Tairab, 17 — who were killed execution-style in Fort Wayne, Indiana, on Feb. 24. The vigil was to honor the young men and draw attention to their deaths, said Yasmin Ali, who organized the event.
Students said a traditional Mus-
lim funeral prayer and held signs reading “#BlackMuslimLivesMat-ter” and “Our Three Brothers.”
Ali, the vice president of inter-
nal affairs for Islam on Campus, said she didn’t know about the murders until days later. She said the Fort Wayne shootings didn’t 
receive extensive coverage because 
the victims were black.
“We’re here today to honor their lives and amplify their sto-ries,” said Ali, a UF biology junior. “They were not into drugs, gangs 
or any type of violence as kind of 
was insinuated by the media.”
Omar and Tairab were Muslim, 
while Mekki was Nubian Christian, the 20-year-old said. Police in Fort Wayne have said the murders were not a hate crime, according to CBS News.
After lighting candles, students 
donned hijabs and stood in two lines to recite a janaza prayer, a prayer for funerals that can be said when bodies aren’t present, Ali said.
“It really brings the community 
together to acknowledge and have a closure on their death,” she said.
She said the crime resembled 
the murders of three Muslim stu-dents in Chapel Hill, North Caro-lina, last year. Last year, about 100 
students attended a vigil for the 
Chapel Hill victims.
Ali said attendance might have 
been low because the murders hap-pened more than a week ago. She said there could also have been fewer people because the victims 
were black.
“It’s not one or the other; it’s 
more that this vigil should have 
more weight and impact in the community because it’s two very discriminated groups,” she said. “There was clearly a difference, and I think we need to acknowl-edge that.”
Hayat Kemal, a UF sociology ju-
nior, said she related to the victims because she is an African-Ameri-can Muslim. She said the shooting made her fear for her 15-year-old brother.
“It makes me scared for the 
world we may be living in later on,” the 20-year-old said. “You want to 
believe society is progressing, but 
we’re really taking ten steps back.”
She said the Muslim commu-
nity should support the Black Lives Matter movement.
“I personally feel that someone 
who’s Muslim is more hated than someone who’s black,” she said. “When those two things are com-
bined, it’s almost a death wish.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org‘Our Three Brothers’: Students hold vigil for Indiana victims
About 20 students attended
RIGHT:
Omar Khan stands alongside 
other members and supporters of Islam on Campus listening to the details of the late Febru-ary slaying of three men in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The 21-year-old mechanical engineering ju-nior said the fact that he didn’t know about the murders until now spoke volumes, and he hoped the vigil would bring a little light to the subject.
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Cupping a candle given to him at the vigil, Rashhan Siddique listens as Islam on Campus leaders speak about the injus-tice of recent crimes against black people. “It goes to show how the situation is for Muslims as well as blacks, ” he said.
Rashhan Siddique, a 21-year-old UF electrical engineering junior, leads a prayer on Monday night on Turlington Plaza for the people who were killed in the Fort 
Wayne, Indiana, murders last week. “When I first heard about it... what hurt me the most is that there wasn’t much media coverage of it, ” Siddique said.TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
News around the nation: Associated Press roundupAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
WHAT’S UP , DOC?
Melanie Brisendine, a 19-year-old UF zoology freshman and animal caregiver at 
Jungle Friends, plays with her 9-month-old English Lop rabbit, Copper, on Turling-ton Plaza on Monday. Brisendine was handing out fliers to passers-by and brought along the 8-pound rabbit to help attract interest.
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — A jury awarded 
Erin Andrews $55 million Monday in her 
lawsuit against a stalker who bought a ho-tel room next to her and secretly recorded a nude video, finding that the hotel com-
panies and the stalker shared in the blame.
After a full day of deliberations, the 
panel said the stalker was responsible for 
51 percent of the verdict and the two hotel companies should share the rest, which is nearly $27 million.
Andrews, a Fox Sports reporter and co-
host of the TV show “Dancing with the Stars,” wept as jurors announced the ver-
dict. She hugged her attorneys, family and 
several jurors after the verdict was read. She appeared to sign an autograph for at least one juror.
The jury heard directly from Andrews, 
who testified that she was humiliated, shamed and suffers from depression as a result of the video, which has been viewed by millions of people online. She had asked 
for $75 million.
Andrews’ parents described for jurors 
the terror they and their daughter felt after 
learning of the video but not knowing who took it, where it was shot and if someone was still watching their daughter.
The trial focused on the video shot in 2008 at the Nashville Marriott at Vanderbilt University.
On Friday, Davidson County Circuit 
Court Judge Hamilton Gayden found Barrett at fault and left it up to jurors to decide if the 
hotel owner, West End Hotel Partners, and 
former operator, Windsor Capital Group, should share any responsibility.  
Attorneys for the companies argued that 
while what happened to Andrews was ter-rible, the stalker should be solely to blame because he was a determined criminal.  
After the verdict, they said they were 
disappointed and not sure if they would ap-
peal.  
Andrews said her stalker’s arrest and im-
prisonment did not make the nightmare go 
away.
“This happens every day of my life,” An-
drews said tearfully. “Either I get a tweet or somebody makes a comment in the paper or somebody sends me a still video to my Twitter or someone screams it at me in the 
stands and I’m right back to this.”
Barrett pleaded guilty to stalking An-
drews, altering hotel room peepholes and 
taking nude videos of her. He was sentenced to two and a half years in prison.Jury awards Erin Andrews $55 million in lawsuit 
- Associated PressST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Former pro 
wrestler Hulk Hogan said Monday he was 
“completely humiliated” by the publication of a video showing him having sex with his 
then-best friend’s wife.
Testifying in his privacy lawsuit against 
the Gawker website, Hogan said he didn’t 
authorize the tape to be made or authorize 
Gawker to publish it. Hogan said when he 
realized that his best friend, radio person-ality Bubba the Love Sponge Clem, was in-volved in making the tape, he began shak-ing uncontrollably. He added that he had 
felt “badgered” by the Clems to have sex 
with Heather Clem.
Earlier, Hogan testified that he initially 
thought it was a joke when Bubba Clem 
said his wife wanted to have sex with Ho-
gan. He testified that the Clems had an open marriage.
Hogan is suing Gawker for publishing 
the sex video.
The trial finished for the day around 
4:30 p.m., when Gawker’s attorneys were cross-examining Hogan.
An attorney for Gawker questioned Ho-
gan about inconsistencies in his testimony and media interviews. Hogan testified that he didn’t watch the video when he discov-ered its existence; during a media interview he said he did. Hogan also said he didn’t 
know he was being recorded when he had 
sex with Heather Clem. In 2012 media interviews, however, Hogan said he had asked Bubba Clem if he was being filmed.
Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bol-
lea, chalked up the inconsistencies to be-ing shell-shocked by the tape and routinely putting himself in his wrestling character.
“I was probably in the Hulk Hogan 
mode,” Hogan said.
The civil trial, which started Monday in 
downtown St. Petersburg, Florida, pits the rowdy wrestling star against a maverick 
news-gossip website known for pulling no 
punches with celebrities and other famous figures.
Hogan is seeking $100 million in dam-
ages for emotional distress and invasion of 
privacy. Jurors may be asked to consider 
how celebrity affects privacy.
The trial is expected to last three weeks.
- Associated PressHulk Hogan ‘completely humiliated’ by sex videoCRIME
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man fired six shots down-
town early Monday morning, one of them hit-
ting a bystander’s hand.
The incident took place in front of Para-
mount Grill on Southwest First Avenue, ac-cording to a police report.
At about 2 a.m., the suspected shooter, 
31-year-old Derrick Keith Godbolt, argued with several people in front of the restaurant, 
according to the report. Police said he then 
pulled out a black semi-automatic handgun and fired down the street.
Some of the bullets struck Venerable Arm-
strong III in the hand, according to the report. 
He suffered severe but non-life threatening 
injuries.
The attack happened near a crowd of peo-ple near city lot 10, a parking lot just off West University Avenue, according to the report.
As Godbolt attempted to escape in a car, 
police stopped him near the 
intersection of Southwest First Street and Southwest First Avenue, according to the report.
A witness identified 
Godbolt as the shooter and police arrested him for ag-gravated assault with great 
bodily harm and resisting arrest without vio-
lence, according to the report.
Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where, as of press time, he remains in 
lieu of a $510,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice say man fired gun 
downtown, hit bystander 
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
CareerSource of North Central 
Florida held a workshop for the 
Gainesville City Commission on Monday evening to discuss its achievements and future projects.
Angela Pate, CareerSource’s 
chief information officer, said the company is a performance leader in economic development and job creation.
City commissioners snacked 
on cheese cubes and Starbucks coffee, occasionally interrupting the presentation with questions 
and suggestions, along with the 
occasional joke.
The organization commonly 
helps people shift from govern-ment assistance to jobs through 
its Welfare Transition Program, 
according to the CareerSource website.
District 4 Commissioner Randy 
Wells asked Pate if the organiza-tion pays attention to residents who work jobs below their skill 
levels to make ends meet, but 
who are not on welfare.
“How successful have you 
been at getting that vulnerable, unemployed person connected to 
CareerSource?” Wells said.
“It’s not going to be enough until we get them all,” Pate said.
She then highlighted projects 
such as Startup Quest, which 
pairs entrepreneurs with CEOs to help make inventions into prod-ucts, according to the website.
CareerSource is rarely men-
tioned, Pate said, urging commis-sioners to promote the organiza-tion more.
“The more momentum we 
get for what we do, the more 
businesses will come and be in-
volved,” she said.  
After the presentation, Pate 
and the commissioners discussed their ongoing relationship and 
planned a schedule for the future, 
according to the agenda. 
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgCareerSource and GNV City Commission discuss jobs, welfare
The workshop focused on job transitionGodbolt
“How successful have you been 
at getting that vulnerable, 
unemployed person connected 
to CareerSource?”
Randy Wells
District 4 commissionerTUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
2bd/2bth townhouse, SW Gainesville, Haile Plantation, cheerful and artistic, furnished, beds, sheets, TV, DVD, washer/dryer, fully equipped kitchen, small front garden, back porch, high ceiling, next to town center, na-ture trails, bike paths, quiet, utilities and in-ternet included, $400/wk + security deposit. No pets. Call 352-256-1211.    3-9-16-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
1/1 Apt. 669/mo. Walking distance to UF. 
Pets ok. Has pool and laundry room. Call 352-213-9780 or 352-575-4889    3-8-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Fuji Bike, Model Spotif, 54", Black, Gatorskin 700x28 tires, helmet- NEVER USED- $500-Call 352-332-5054    3-8-16-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 AutosTUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-11-16-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     3-11-16-5-14
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shifts available, 1-9 p.m., 
Mon - Fri, Weekend hours vary. 15-20 hrs per 
week. Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    
3-11-16-5-14
Mature responsible adult with education, mu-sic, or art orientation for day learning com-panion for teen. Own car and references. Email jdcschool@yahoo.com    3-11-16-5-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
M & C Army Surplus is hiring. 25 + hours per week. Firearm + Retail Exp. Required. Apply in Person to 626 NW 13th St    3-7-16-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's tennis 
team is preparing for a challenging SEC schedule.Read the story on pg. 15.THE GATORS HOPE TO 
USE MOMENTUM FROM 
THEIR LAST WIN TO 
CARRY THEM.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
 
Anything can happen.Florida head coach Mike White 
was sure to make that clear on Monday morning when discussing 
the upcoming Southeastern Confer-
ence Tournament.
The Gators secured the No. 8 
seed in the conference tournament with their victory over Missouri on Saturday night. Florida (18-13, 9-9 SEC) will face No. 9 seed Arkansas on Thursday at 1 p.m. in Nashville.
White has coaching experience 
in conference tournaments, includ-ing the SEC, through his career with Jacksonville State, Ole Miss and Louisiana Tech. He knows that around this time of the year — be-fore the Big Dance even starts — there can be madness.
“I’ve been a part of being a one 
seed that gets knocked out ... in 
the second round,” White said on 
Monday. 
“I remember Georgia making 
an unbelievable run a few years back in Atlanta ... The SEC Tour-nament, there’s a lot of history, a lot of memories for a lot of different people. Anything can happen.”
It’s no secret that the Gators 
need an impressive showing in Nashville to even be considered for an NCAA Tournament berth. 
Florida lost four of its final five 
regular-season games and quickly dropped out of the tournament pic-ture. 
White keeps up to date with 
where Florida stands in the national scope and knows the consequences of a poor showing in Nashville, but he is focused solely on the first hur-dle: Arkansas.
“I know if we don’t beat Arkan-
sas, our chances decrease for sure," White said.
Sophomore guard Chris Chi-ozza is excited to get a clean slate in Nashville and a chance to earn a spot in the NCAA tournament, but he also said the win-or-go-home concept is scary.
“Coach White said to us the 
other day in the locker room, ‘sometimes fear is a little bit bet-
ter motivator than anything else.’ 
So hopefully we come out a little scared to lose and play to win,” Chiozza said. “And hopefully we can win four in four days and get to the (NCAA) Tournament.”
Chiozza added, though, that the 
focus in Nashville won’t just be on how well the Gators have to play to make it to the NCAA Tourna-ment. Florida wants to win four games and take home the SEC title 
in Nashville. “It’s fruitless to waste  
time and energy on any of that,” White said, referring to NCAA 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's basketball stays put in AP Poll
Despite a 23-point loss to Kentucky in their first game of the SEC T ourna-
ment on Friday, the Gators held on to the 25th spot in The Associated Press T op 25 Poll released on Monday.  UF will carry its ranking into the unveiling of NCAA T ournament brackets, which will take place on March 14. Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza dribbles the ball during Florida's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell 
Center. 
Renewed confidence leading UF into SEC Tournament
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
After Dalton Guthrie recorded the final out 
for Florida in its sweep over Dartmouth, his 
teammates couldn’t help but praise how the 
Big Green played during the three-game series. 
For three straight games, Dartmouth gave 
Florida all it could handle. If it wasn’t for a Buddy Reed walk-off home run in extra in-
nings on Saturday, or Thomas Roulis’ error on Sunday, a winless Dartmouth team might’ve found itself beating the No. 1 team in the country.
But Florida overcame the adversity it faced 
this weekend and ended up sweeping Dart-mouth. 
“I think it was good honestly, for us,” UF 
catcher Mike Rivera said. “Especially these 
young guys, too. It gets us ready for SECs as 
well.”
The Gators have a huge target on their 
backs, one that comes with the territory of be-
ing the top-ranked team in the country. Dart-
mouth played Florida like it was competing in the College World Series, giving UF its best shot, and it almost succeeded in pulling off a couple of upsets. 
“It was a really good weekend for us. 
We had to battle from behind," coach Kevin O'Sullivan said. "It was a good challenge for us." Now, with Dartmouth in the rear-view mir-
ror, Florida (12-1) begins a midweek series 
against UNF tonight in Jacksonville at 6. The 
Gators will send Dane Dunning to the mound with the intention of having him pitch deep into the game.
Dunning pitched just 3.1 innings, throwing 
71 pitches in his last start on March 1 against UCF, an eventual 9-5 win for Florida. 
“I’m looking forward to him getting back 
out there and maybe extend him a little bit, 
get him in the second half of the ball game,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
Dunning and Florida will have to be ready 
for the Ospreys (6-6) — UNF doesn’t often play teams of Florida's caliber in the Atlantic 
Sun Conference. 
While the Ospreys have a .500 record, they Florida to face UNF in midweek series
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14TRACK & FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Florida coach Mike Holloway 
carried a baseball bat to practice 
on Monday. 
From the outside, the bat 
might not seem very important. 
But to the athletes on both of his 
teams, it means one thing: He is not playing around. 
“(It’s) a stress reliever,” Hol-
loway said on why he carries the bat. “When the guys and girls want to bring out the bat, it is a serious day.”
Competition begins on Friday 
for 18 Gators — eight from the No. 4 men’s team and 10 from the No. 2 women’s team. They will travel to Birmingham, Alabama, to compete in the final and most important meet of the indoor sea-
son: The NCAA Indoor Champi-
onships. 
UF’s 18 athletes are the third-
highest number of competitors at  the 2016 competition.
“We have faced most of these 
teams throughout the year,” Hol-loway said. “The biggest thing at this time of the year is just to go 
there and do what we have done 
all year and we will be fine.”
Although this is the last meet 
of the indoor season, Holloway and his team will be approaching this competition like they have every other meet this season.
“The biggest thing is we have 
to take the label, the moniker so 
to speak, off of the meet. It is a 
track meet,” Holloway said. “At the end of the of the day, it is a track meet.”
On the women’s team, senior 
Shayla Sanders, who will be com-peting in the 60-meter dash this weekend, enters the meet as the only Gator with a national lead-
ing time. 
“I am looking forward to claim-
ing a national title,” Sanders said. 
“It will be my first time being 
at the top of the ranking. I want 
to keep a positive mindset and go 
out and run like I have been do-Holloway 
motivating Gators ahead of  NCAA Indoors
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 14The Gators are coming off a sweeping.” 
Last one, best one. 
That theme is one that coach 
Holloway stresses to his team in practice to try and motivate his 
athletes to get better in every 
meet. With this being the last meet 
of the indoor season, he is hop-ing that his athletes go out and put up their best performances 
to date.
“It is just a matter of being 
focused right now. We don’t 
pinpoint or put pressure on one specific person,” Holloway said. 
“Anyone who puts on a Gator uniform this week is important.”
With the help of his baseball 
bat, Holloway hopes to ensure that both of his teams will be fo-
cused and prepared to face the 
top athletes in the country on Friday.
@lstafff27
lstaff@alligator.orgTournament hopes. “It takes away from your focus on the Hogs.”
Florida’s 82-72 road win on Saturday night 
over Missouri in its regular-season finale 
snapped a four-game losing streak. 
Although the Tigers ended the year at 10-21 
and 3-15 in the SEC — worst in the conference 
— the win was a necessary confidence boost for the Gators heading into the postseason.
“That was huge. We needed that,” Chiozza 
said. 
“After the game, we felt great, like we just 
beat a top team in the conference.”
The Gators hope to use that momentum 
to maneuver through the SEC Tournament. Looking at Florida’s resume as of late — an overtime loss to South Carolina and losses to Vanderbilt, LSU and Kentucky — it appears as if the Gators ended the season playing their worst basketball of the year.
 But White argued that Florida's final four 
losses came against four of the conference’s 
top five teams.
Now, in Nashville, Florida gets another 
chance to prove itself.
“We’re not apologizing for any of those 
games. We’re just not one of the best three 
or four teams in this league. We haven’t been that. We hope to be that moving forward,” White said. 
“The opportunities are right there in front 
of us. Again, if we can somehow play well enough to beat the Hogs, we’ll take that next step if it presents itself.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
Florida had lost four in a row before winning its season finale
have four hitters with a .300 bat-
ting average, with senior catcher Keith Skinner leading the team 
with a .439 hitting clip. 
UNF will be ready for Florida, 
with O’Sullivan expecting a capac-
ity crowd at Harmon Stadium.
But if there is one thing the 
Gators learned from their series against Dartmouth, it's that they have to be ready for everyone’s best shot. “I see this as something we can 
build off of,” Reed said. “Can’t take 
any team for granted. … We’re go-
ing to come back on Tuesday and for the rest of the year with a chip on our shoulder knowing that ev-
eryone is going to give us their best 
effort. 
“We’re the No. 1 team in the 
country right now. And we’re go-ing to have to reciprocate and do 
the same thing.” 
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Reed: "Can't take any 
team for granted." Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Dorian Finney-Smith drives into the paint during UF's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center. 
TRACK,  from pg 13The competition starts on Friday HOOPS,  from pg13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike Holloway smiles during the 2015 Florida Relays at James G. Pressly Stadium.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kevin O'Sullivan meets with the opposing team's manager before 
Florida's 8-4 win over FGCU on Feb. 20 at McKethan Stadium.TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Sports and re-
ligion rarely come into di-rect conﬂ  ict. 
Sure, there 
are instances when sports ﬁ  gures are in the news for their religious ideas or practices, such as New York Mets’ sec-ond baseman Daniel Murphy’s condemnation not of gay people, but of the gay “life-
style,” or Russell Wilson giving 
thanks to God for both wins and losses. 
But for Zach Gillion, a de-
vout Seventh Day Adventist and head coach of the girls’ bas-ketball team at Northeast High School in Oakland Park, Florida, faith itself rendered him unable 
to achieve the pinnacle of high 
school athletic success.
Seventh Day Adventists are 
fundamentalist Christians who believe in the imminent return of Jesus Christ, a literal inter-pretation of the Bible and, most relevant to Gillion’s situation, a strict observance of the Sabbath 
from sundown Friday night to 
sundown Saturday night. 
All that means is that time 
period every week is reserved for spiritual reﬂ  ection and God-related activities. The deﬁ  nition of “God-related” can vary de-pending on who you talk to, but the one thing that every Seventh 
Day Adventist will agree on is 
that they are not to do any work on the Sabbath. 
Which brings me back to Gil-
lion, who ran into trouble when his team was scheduled to play in the FHSAA 6A State Finals on a Saturday afternoon. 
He is, after all, working while 
coaching the team — it’s his job. So, being the devout observer of his faith that he is, Gillion knew that he wasn’t going to coach the game.
“When you grow up Adven-
tist, you don’t ﬂ  inch,” Gillion said. “Because you grow up missing out on stuff.”
He was, however, extremely 
disappointed that the FHSAA refused to switch his 6A game with the game scheduled to be played after sunset, especially after league ofﬁ  cials had been incredibly accommodating for other games during the team’s playoff run. 
Now, at this point in a col-
umn, it would generally be ex-pected of a columnist to take a side. Either the FHSAA is perse-cuting Gillion’s faith by not ac-commodating him, leading to a war on religious freedom, or Gil-lion is a slave to his religion and any omnipotent deity would as-
suredly understand if he chose 
to do his goddamn job and coach his team on a Saturday.But taking a 
deﬁ  nite side and spewing hot takes in much the same way that a volcano 
spews lava — loud-
ly, without any dis-cernible direction, and ready to mow down anything in its way — completely misses the point. 
Because when it comes to re-
ligion mixing with sports, any 
worthwhile discussion requires 
nuance.
So, on one hand, it isn’t hard 
to see why Gillion is upset. Ac-commodations had been made in the past, he believed he took the steps necessary for those accommodations to be in place again, and ultimately, his team 
folded in the fourth quarter and 
lost the championship game while he waited and wondered in a Lakeland hotel room. 
His proposed solution? Just 
make individual accommoda-tions when requested. Because what if, instead of him, it was a player who couldn’t compete?
“A young 17-year-old, 
16-year-old, shouldn’t be put in the position where they have to choose,” Gillion said.
On the other hand, it isn’t 
the FHSAA’s responsibility to accommodate Gillion or any-one else. As coach of the team, it’s his job to be at the games 
whenever and wherever they’re 
played. And if a school wants its coach to coach games, it should hire one who will be available every single day. 
I’m not in any way religious 
myself, so for me, it’s easy to look at this situation and agree with the latter sentiment, or to 
dish out the good ol’ “God would 
understand, because you’ve got a responsibility to your team” advice. That was deﬁ  nitely my ﬁ  rst reaction. 
But as someone who’s pater-
nal family members are all prac-ticing Seventh Day Adventists aside from my father, perhaps 
my situation enables me to be a 
little more sympathetic than my gut instinct wants me to be.
So while it’s easy to choose 
to unequivocally praise Gillion for his adherence to his faith or to unabashedly denounce him for the perceived abandonment of his team, try to change your 
frame of reference and at least 
consider that discussing issues like this one requires some de-gree of subtlety and compro-mise. 
Ethan Bauer is the assistant 
sports editor. You can contact him at ebauer@alligator.org 
and follow him on Twitter      
@ebaueri.Separation of Church and 
State Championships: When 
religion and sports collide
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
Coming back from a third-place 
start, the Gators claimed ﬁ  rst place at the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Sunday, adding to their previ-ous three victories and six top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nishes this season. The weekend’s tournament was UF’s only home 
tournament of the season.
Sunday was the ﬁ  rst time since 
2012 that UF won the tournament at 
the Mark Bostick Golf Course, and by 11 strokes no less. 
“We did a pretty good job of man-
aging the expectations being at home and coming out and playing solid in the third round,” coach Emily Glaser 
said. “We did a good job of hanging 
in there in a very tough golf course.”
This is just the latest in the Gators’ 
streak of success. After a less than ideal Fall season, Florida earned its ﬁ  rst win at the Alamo Invitational on Oct. 27, the last tournament of the fall. Using that momentum, UF went on to win all but one of its tourna-ments in the spring so far.Winning three of the four tour-
naments in the Spring semester, the Gators have momentum on their side. With two tournaments left be-fore the Southeastern Conference Championship, Florida needs to stay true to what it has been doing the 
last few months. 
For Glaser, this means keeping up 
the recent momentum and chemistry 
the team has.
“I think that we had some learn-
ing curve there in the fall but then to come out and end the fall with a vic-tory really sort of spurred our team on, and then we’ve been able to carry that momentum this spring.,” 
Glaser said. “They’ve been very 
good competitive even in the events that we haven’t won.”
Glaser also credited the team’s 
chemistry as a reason for the success in the home tournament this year, unlike in previous years.
“This is a pretty tight-knit group. 
They really are supportive of each other, they play hard for each other and that seems to be the difference maker this year,” Glaser said on Sun-day.
The chemistry the team has de-
veloped has been pivotal to Flori-da’s successful according to Glaser. However, she admitted she did not 
always fully appreciate that element 
of the sport.
“Even when I ﬁ  rst started at this 
job, I’m not sure that I felt the im-portance of that or understood the importance of that in a sport like golf which is technically, in a lot of ways, an individual sport, but since we’ve focused on that over the last 
couple of years I think that’s why 
we’re seeing some of this success,” Glaser said. 
“The team plays very hard, not 
only for themselves but for each oth-er, and I think that is really what we will focus on moving forward trying to keep that momentum and repre-sent the gator nation very well.”.
Florida’s will head to Johns Is-
land, South Carolina, for the Briar’s Creek Invitational on March 21. Af-ter that, the Gators will participate in the Clemson Invitational on April 2 before beginning play at the SEC Championship and NCAA Champi-onship.
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.org
Florida women’s golf building chemistrySEVEN OTHER CONFERENCE TEAMS 
RANK INSIDE THE TOP 25.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Heading into last weekend, Florida women’s tennis 
coach Roland Thornqvist knew he needed to get his team prepared.
The No. 15 Gators (7-2, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) 
were coming off two close 4-3 defeats at the hands of then-
No. 1 California and then-No. 16 Stanford. But what was 
ahead was something the team needed to be ready for.It was the start of SEC play — something Thornqvist 
described as a “gauntlet.” 
“This SEC schedule now, I think we have seven or 
eight, maybe even more top 30 teams, and you just have to be ready,” Thornqvist said. “In SEC play, even when the teams aren’t ranked high, they’re ready. They ﬁ  ght, they yell. That’s what makes the SEC.”
The SEC will be a challenge for the Gators, but his-
tory has shown that Florida can compete at the highest level. Since the 2011 Spring season, Florida has gone un-defeated twice, held a 12-1 record twice and held a 11-2 record once. 
This season, seven other teams rank in the top 25 in 
No. 7 Georgia, No. 8 Vanderbilt, No. 9 LSU, No. 12 South Carolina, No. 14 Texas A&M, No. 17 Kentucky and No. 25 Mississippi State.
In non-conference play, UF has already faced four top-
25 teams in then-No. 4 Southern California, then-No. 20 Clemson, then-No. 1 California and then-No. 16 Stanford. 
Florida swept USC and Clemson 7-0.The California and Stanford losses were the ﬁ  rst true 
tests for the Gators. And their next pair comes this week-end.
“The defending national champion,” Thornqvist said 
of UF’s March 12 matchup vs. Vanderbilt. “And ﬁ  rst, per-haps the most improved team in the league in Kentucky. 
We got to make sure we don’t overlook the Thursday 
match because we’re so preoccupied with the rematch with Vandy. We got to be on our p’s and q’s from the get-go this weekend.”
This test, though, will be at home, where the Gators 
have a 201-1 record against SEC opponents and are on a 153-home dual-match winning streak. 
The Gators will see four more ranked opponents at the 
Ring Tennis Complex when they face Kentucky, Vander-
bilt, LSU and Texas A&M this season.
Florida will also look to extend its doubles-point streak, 
where it has yet to drop the doubles point this season — an 
effort that could prove beneﬁ  cial this weekend.
Led by the No. 7 tandem of sophomore Brooke Austin 
and junior Kourtney Keegan and the No. 19 duo of sopho-more Josie Kuhlman and junior Belinda Woolcock, getting an early lead over SEC opponents could give UF the edge it needs to secure wins.
“In general, we hit the ball harder and in doubles that 
just allows us to play a little bit more aggressive,” Thorn-qvist said. “You need to be able to create, you can’t defend. If you defend, you can’t win.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgUF readying for challenging SEC slate
UF took irst at home tourneyJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Roland Thornqvist looks on during 
Florida’s 6-1 win against South Florida on Jan. 27.
SWEET AND BAUER
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 2016
SEVEN DIVERS WILL 
TRY TO QUALIFY.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
The road to the NCAA Championships 
will be paved this week for the Florida 
men’s and women’s swimming and div-
ing teams. 
With only one qualification event re-
maining — the NCAA diving zones — 
Florida’s swimming and diving lineups for 
the upcoming championship meet in At-
lanta will become official on Wednesday. 
Seven total divers from both Florida 
teams will be qualifying for spots in the meet. 
Senior diver Kahlia Warner, who cap-
tured two individual Southeastern Con-ference titles at the conference meet less than three weeks ago, is considered to be 
the favorite among all UF divers to qualify 
for the NCAAs. 
Last week, nine swimmers from the No. 
9-ranked women’s swimming and diving team were announced to be competing in 
the women’s NCAA Championship meet 
on March 16. 
Among the nine female swimmers, se-
niors Natalie Hinds and Jessica Thielman 
will each compete in three of the Gators’ 
14 individual events.
After finishing a disappointing sixth 
place in the SEC Championship meet, the Florida women’s team is preparing to fin-
ish the season on a high note. 
With only a handful of practices re-maining before the NCAA meet begins, UF swimming coach Gregg Troy noted the 
women’s team is preparing itself, both physically and mentally.
“We have a very focused group of 
women,” UF coach Gregg Troy said.
Despite fielding only nine total swim-
mers for the upcoming four-day champi-onship event, Troy is confident that the 
Gators have both the physical and mental 
tools necessary to have a strong outing in Atlanta. 
“We think we are a top-10 team,” Troy 
said. “How deep in the top 10 will depend on how well we compete.” 
As for the No. 4-ranked Florida men’s swimming team, the reigning four-time 
Southeastern Conference champions will 
have their swimming lineups for the NCAA meet determined on Wednesday. While the lineups will not be officially an-
nounced until then, Troy said that both 
he and his coaches expect about 13 swim-mers from the men’s team to qualify for the NCAA meet.
Regardless of how many swimmers 
they will have beginning March 23, the No. 4 Gators will be riding into Atlanta on a wave of momentum. 
Facing a stacked field that included 
three other top-10 nationally ranked teams in the SEC championship meet — No. 3 Georgia, No. 6 Auburn and No. 10 Tennessee — the Gators conquered their toughest competition of the season and 
captured the program’s fourth-consecu-
tive SEC crown. 
Even though there is not much that 
needs to be fixed for the reigning SEC 
champions, Troy knows that the smallest 
details could determine whether or not the Gators capture their first NCAA cham-pionship in more than 30 years. 
“We’re not looking for anything dra-
matically different as much as we want to be a little sharper, a little bit crisper,” Troy said. 
“We want to make sure that we pay 
a little more attention to detail, not that it wasn’t important before, but it’s even more important now.” 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.orgFlorida swimming and diving teams preparing for NCAAsBy Ray Boone
Sports Writer
For the second tournament in a 
row, a mental error cost the Florida men’s golf team.
At the SunTrust Gator Invitational 
on Feb. 21, sophomore Alejandro Tosti was disqualified for signing an incorrect scorecard, dropping the 
Gators from a share of second into 
third place alone. Now, with the No. 2 Gators’ reputation on the line at the Southern Highlands Collegiate in Las Vegas, an event hosting 15 teams, 
nine of which are in the top 20, Tosti 
was again disqualified for signing an incorrect scorecard. 
However, this time, the team 
dropped more than just a spot. UF originally held a 1-shot lead before Tosti’s blunder. Now, instead of lead-ing heading into Day 2 of the three-day competition, the Gators find 
themselves in seventh place at 7 over 
par, four shots back of No. 14 Arizona State, who finished the day at 3 over.
 “It was a really tough day, coach 
J.C. Deacon said in a release. “The course is just in absolute champion-ship condition. It tests all parts of your game and especially your pa-tience and mentality.”
Four of the five teams ahead of the Gators are ranked in the top 10, mak-ing UF’s task of crawling back up the 
leaderboard all the more difficult. 
Behind the Sun Devils is a three-
way tie for second at 4 over par be-
tween No. 1 Illinois, No. 8 Southern 
California and SMU. No. 10 Oklaho-
ma State is in fifth alone at 5 over, and Southeastern Conference rival, No. 4 Alabama rests in sixth place at 6 over.
It wasn’t all bad news for the 
Gators, however.
Freshman Sam Horsfield, who is 
coming off a runner-up finish at the 
Gators’ lone home tournament, found 
himself in a familiar spot after Mon-day’s opening round. Horsfield made five birdies on his way to a 3-under 69, giving himself a share of the lead 
with UNLV’s Taylor Montgomery and 
ASU’s Jon Rahm. However, Horsfield was the only Gator to shoot under par on the difficult course.
Freshman Jorge Garcia had a wild 
round on the 7,374-yard trek. Garcia recorded six bogeys, a double bogey, five birdies and an ace en route to a 1-over 73. After a rough start, Gar-
cia fought his way down to 3 under. 
However, four bogeys on the final six holes stalled out his round, giving him a share of 15th place. The other 
two golfers in the Gators’ would-be five-man lineup, freshman Kyler Tate 
and junior Ryan Orr, had a hard time 
navigating the course. Tate opened 
with a 3-over 75, placing him in a tie for 34th, and Orr, who opened the back nine with five-straight bogeys, 
limped into the club house with a 6-over 78, placing him well behind in a tie for 64th. 
The Gators, a man down and 
looking for their second victory of the 
Spring season, will start the second round of the tournament today.
“It really shows us where we stack up. I think we’re right there,” Deacon 
said. “We have some really special 
kids who, when the lights come on for the tournament, they show up.” 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgTosti disqualified, costs UF lead at end of Day 1 in Las Vegas
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kahlia Warner dives during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the 
O’Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield hits a shot during Round 2 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 21 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Florida is in seventh place