We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 150 THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
Woolcock advances at NCAAs
She plays in the second round today, pg. 20
Research Roundup
Wearable technology,  toxic zoos and seafood, pg. 5
High-speed storm disrupts campus tours
The storm damaged equipment on campus, pg. 9Florida men charged with fraud
Police said they had 19 fake credit cards, pg. 8
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
A record amount of people are estimated to travel on the 
days leading up to Monday, but gas prices will likely reach the 
lowest point since Memorial Day 2005. 
The American Automobile Association announced an esti-
mated 38 million people — more than two million in Florida 
— will travel between today and Monday, according to a press release.
Approximately 89 percent of travelers will drive, 7 percent 
will ﬂ  y and 4 percent will board cruises, buses and trains, ac-cording to the release. 
The lower gas prices will cause increased trafﬁ  c and conges-
tion, said Mark Jenkins, a spokesman for AAA. 
“Be patient when you’re traveling,” he said. “Get ahead of 
the crowds if you can or take alternative routes.”
Jenkins said the organization plans to help more than 350,000 cars during the holiday weekend, and even passengers with a membership can call to have their drivers’ cars ﬁ  xed. 
Mike Wacht, a spokesman for the state’s Department of 
Transportation, said travelers can use Florida 511 to stay up-dated on congestion, construction and road closures. 
The service is found by visiting ﬂ  511.com or calling 511, and 
there are also 13 Twitter feeds and an app, he said. 
Devin Gregory, a 22-year-old UF psychology and criminol-
ogy senior, said he plans to visit Jacksonville for a concert.
“I’m excited to just spend the day off work and out with my 
friends,” he said. 
cdickson@alligator.org Memorial Day travel expected to break records
WILCLEY LIMA WAS A 
CONTESTANT IN MARCH.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
When people think of “Jeopar-
dy,”  some think of encyclopedia-
like knowledge and books of trivia. 
For Wilcley Lima, he saw numbers 
and patterns.
In March, the IT director at UF’s 
Business Services Division played 
as a contestant on the show.  He’s 
been sworn to secrecy for two months, but the episode will air May 30.
He and his wife, Pamela Lima, 
a second-year UF dental student, said they enjoy watching “Jeop-ardy” together. She suggested he apply to get on the show, and al-
though he had tried before, he gave 
it one more shot and was asked to attend a live audition in Tampa. “What’s cool about ‘Jeopardy’ 
is there’s people from all sorts of backgrounds and ages and pro-fessions,” he said. “That’s what makes it appealing: Anybody can get on there.”
Once a year the show ﬁ  nds new 
contestants through an online quiz that anyone can take.
It’s not really about memoriz-
ing long lists or numerous facts, he said. It’s more about ﬁ  guring out the patterns in which they ask questions and what topics they like to focus on. 
“I binge-watched a lot of ‘Jeop-
ardy,’” he said.
At UF, part of Wilcley’s job is 
to look for patterns in software. 
Although his undergraduate and 
master’s degrees are in mechani-cal engineering, he started to teach himself coding in high school and continued to learn and work with  UF faculty member 
takes on ‘Jeopardy’
SEE JEOPARDY,  PAGE 4While listening to Christian music and recording herself with a video camera, Nadia Pouncey ﬂ  ag wor-
ships, or does a religious dance, in the Baughman Center on Wednesday. The 23-year-old UF sociology alumna said she tries to visit the Baughman Center two to three times a week to practice for her per-formances at Greenhouse Church.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
On June 7, UF’s Student Gov-
ernment will vote on changes to 
its constitution.
In February, the Student Body 
voted to amend the constitution to 
include online voting, according to 
Alligator archives. It passed with a 68 percent majority. 
Although online voting is in-
cluded in the constitution, the UF Online Implementation Ad Hoc committee must still revise word-
ing that makes it unconstitutional, 
said Wayne Selogy, the commit-tee’s chairman. 
“We’re going through the on-
line code to make sure there is nothing contradictory,” Selogy said. “In two weeks, we’re voting on those amended changes.” 
U.S. Marine Corps veteran Ran-
dall Martin, who is also a 31-year-
old UF soil and water science 
graduate student, asked the Stu-dent Senate to get involved with the community on Memorial Day. 
The Brass Tap will host military trivia at 8:30 p.m. tonight, and groups will take American ﬂ  ags to veterans’ graves at Gainesville cemeteries Saturday, he said. 
“Wherever you go, take time 
to remember why you have the day off, why we’re all here, why we live in freedom, why we have awesome things,” Martin said. 
Senate also approved the ser-vice fee budget for the 2016-17 ac-ademic year, said Charlie Brown, 
Jr., the chairman of the UF Budget 
and Appropriations committee. Service fees, which cover student amenities like Lake Wauburg, campus gyms and health services, will stay the same, and services will expand. 
 SG to vote on changes to the online voting amendmentLower gas prices and more travelers
Emma Green/Alligator Staff
WAVING THE FLAGSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.HIGH  89° LOW  60°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Blue Star Museums May 30 — 
Sept. 5 
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is offering free admis-
sion to all fee-based exhibits for 
active duty U.S. military person-
nel and their families, beginning 
Monday, Memorial Day, and run-
ning through Sept. 5, Labor Day, 
as part of the Blue Star Museums program. Free admission is avail-
able to any active duty Army, 
Navy, Air Force, Marines or 
Coast Guard personnel, as well as 
members of the National Guard 
and Reserve, U.S. Public Health 
Service and National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration 
Commissioned Corps, and up to five family members. For more 
information, including a list of 
participating museums and ac-
ceptable IDs, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/blue-star-muse-ums.
Observing Mars at the Campus 
Teaching Observatory on Friday
Monday, Mars will be at the 
closest distance from Earth for 
the next couple of years. The distance will be 0.5 astronomi-
cal units (about 75 million ki-
lometers). Its angular diameter 
will be 19 arc seconds, the larg-
est in the next two years. It will 
shine as a reddish, bright object 
in the constellation Scorpius. The 
UF Department of Astronomy 
will open the Campus Teaching Observatory on Friday from 9 
p.m. to 11 p.m. to show Mars, 
Jupiter, Saturn and other objects. 
Astronomers, volunteers and staff 
will be at the observatory to help 
with telescopes, provide informa-
tion and answer questions. This 
is a free and public event.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome, Kaelah Scheff  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Matthews Silva. Donovan Vazquez  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 150
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
RETREATGAINESVILLE.COM | 352-372-6535
1404 W UNIVERSITY AVE STE 10  LEASE FOR AS LOW 
AS $599/MO
®
come and see why life is better in a cottageWelcome  to 
    the University 
              of Florida
2-6 Bedroom Luxury Cottages
RESORT STYLE POOL | EXTENSIVE FITNESS FACILITY | PRIVATE SHUTTLE  
FREE PARKING  | INTERNET & CABLE | OUTDOOR GRILLING  
SELF-SERVE STARBUCKS COFFEE | TANNING  | HOT TUB & SAUNA  
COMPUTER LOUNGE | GROUP STUDY ROOMS   | CYBER CAFE  
 BEACH VOLLEYBALL | GAMING ROOMS
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Wilcley Lima, the IT director at UF’s Business Services Division, poses with “Jeopardy” host Alex Trebek in March. Lima said 
he binge-watched “Jeopardy” for about six months before going on the show.
software through college. By the time he gradu-
ated, Lima had his own software company and decided he wanted to work in IT professionally. 
“There’s a lot of different levels of smart,” he 
said. “I guess I’m enough to get on ‘Jeopardy.’”
For two years, Pamela and Wilcley would 
watch “Jeopardy,” never missing a night. Af-
ter a while, Pamela said she began to notice 
something: Wilcley usually did better than the contestants. 
“He always played really well,” she said. 
“He always beat me. ‘What are you doing? You 
need to be on this show!’”
Six months after the audition, Lima found 
out he would be a contestant on the show. He ﬂ  ew to Los Angeles with his family to cheer 
him on as they ﬁ  lmed the episode. For “Jeop-ardy” fans, he suggests traveling to be part of the show.
“Go make the trip to Los Angeles; go watch 
the show and be in the audience,” he said. “It’s a really fun experience.” 
josmond@alligator.orgJEOPARDY,  from pg. 1Lima will star in the ‘Jeopardy’ episode airing on May 30By Samantha Brittingham
Alligator Contributing Writer
With a new program, ordering from most 
Gator Dining locations can be done through 
an app before users reach their destinations.
Tapingo is a free app that can be down-
loaded on Apple or Android devices. The app ofﬁ  cially launched May 18, but Gator 
Dining has been internally testing the app 
since the end of the Spring semester, Jill Ro-
driguez, the marketing program manager for 
Gator Dining Services, wrote in an email.
Through the app, students can use their 
meal plans to pay for their food. But Tapin-
go is not exclusively for students — patrons can also load their credit card information 
into the app. 
Terri Dildine, a grants specialist in UF’s 
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, downloaded the app but said 
she hasn’t had the chance to use it yet.
“I heard about (the app) through an email 
from another faculty member,” Dildine said. “I would love to use it, but I’m just not sure where to get my food.”
While some UF students said they were 
excited to use the app, they weren’t sure how it worked.
The app directs users through an order-
ing process. Once their food is ready, they are to pick it up at the sign located at their designated food location.
“Gator Dining understands that students, 
faculty and staff need to get their food quickly and with this program, guests can 
order their food on the way to the location 
and have it ready when they arrive,” Rodri-
guez wrote.
With his busy student lifestyle, David 
Prida, a 20-year-old UF nuclear engineer-
ing junior, said he didn’t feel like he would 
make much use of the app.
“I am too noncommittal to use an app 
that has a required pickup time,” Prida said. “Chipotle has a similar system and my 
friend uses it all the time, so I wouldn’t be surprised if students took advantage of it.” Gator Dining launches mobile ordering appLocations available 
through Tapingo, 
starting Summer B:
Starbucks
Subway
Chick-Fil-A
Einstein Bros. Bagels
Rising Roll
Pollo Tropical
Freshens
Croutons
Chomp It
Jamba Juice
Moe’s Southwest Grill
Panda Express
Papa John’s
Wendy’s
Wing ZoneTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
 Research aims to improve 
tourism by studying when people are focused
UF researcher Jamie Kim is developing a wear-
able technology called iMotion, a combination of 
glasses and a wristband that aims to improve tour-
ism experiences, according to a press release.
A camera mounted on the frame is used to track 
eye motion, while the wristband measures electri-
cal activity on the skin’s surface.
As subjects interact with their environments, 
the glasses and the wristband determine how in-terested they are by looking at the peaks in the measurements of the eyes and the skin. 
A GPS unit is used in conjunction to track 
movement.
When an individual is focused on a particular 
object, the measurements taken from both eyes and the skin peak together. The three sets of data 
— from the glasses, wristband and GPS — are ana-
lyzed, and a heat map is produced.
Kim is able to decipher what people ﬁ  nd most 
interesting from the information on the map. Ad-ditional insight can be inferred from the data, such 
as when the subject is confused, and the heat 
map shows his or her eyes have been wandering around.
The research was inspired by a need to under-
stand the impact social media has on travel deci-sions, Kim said.
“The research we are doing provides a funda-
mental understanding of how the travel industry can design,” Kim said. 
- Andronik Mkrtychev Nutritional labels on seafood 
affect consumer purchases
A new UF study found parents of young chil-
dren are more likely to purchase raw ﬁ  sh for their 
families if nutritional labels are put on the packag-
ing, according to a press release.
The study was conducted primarily through 
online surveys. Some participants were placed in 
groups that received nutritional information and 
others joined groups that did not, said Xiang Bi, 
a UF assistant professor of food and resource eco-nomics.
Researchers wanted to know if providing nu-
tritional information on the health beneﬁ  ts of sea-
food helped consumers pick seafood more often. 
Poultry, beef and pork labels have been required to state nutritional value on packaging since 2012, but seafood does not, she said.
After seeing nutritional beneﬁ  ts and basic ways 
to prepare seafood, more families bought seafood than they would have otherwise.
Parents assume kids won’t like seafood, she 
said. Researchers found kids are open to trying it, 
but they usually don’t if they are not inﬂ  uenced to 
and thus never develop a taste for it.
“Kids develop their food preferences from their 
parents,” she said.
Consumers that come from uneducated or low-
er-income families were not widely targeted for the study, Bi said. 
She said many people just don’t know seafood 
is usually healthier.
“You’d think people know salmon has healthier 
fatty acids — but not really,” Bi said. “Once you tell them, they’re more likely to buy it.” 
-Jasmine OsmondZoo animals are in danger of 
wood toxins
Zoo animals may be at risk in their own homes.
According to a study by the UF’s Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences, arsenic might be 
endangering zoo animals’ health.
Led by Julia Gress, a former post-doctoral re-
searcher in the IFAS Soil and Water Sciences De-
partment, the study revealed wood enclosures 
treated with chromated copper arsenate can be 
toxic.
“The practice of using CCA-treated wood in ani-
mal enclosures is very common,” Gress wrote in an email. “There are numerous instances on the 
internet of animals being poisoned from chewing 
on CCA-wood and ash.”
The problem’s source, she wrote, lies in the 
wood treatment industry.
“Treated wood is marketed for use this way,” 
she wrote. “It’s widely used around farms and ag-ricultural operations — theme parks, ranches.”
Gress wrote that, although her study focused 
on only one zoo’s samples, it’s important to know 
how pervasive the matter is.
She could not reveal the zoo’s name due to a 
conﬁ  dentiality agreement, according to an email. 
“This is a widespread issue, not conﬁ  ned to one 
zoo,” Gress wrote. 
- Monica Andrade
“This is a widespread issue, not conﬁ  ned to one 
zoo,” Gress wrote. 
- Monica Andrade
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.
It’s that time of year, dear readers: The days are getting 
hotter, the sun’s growing brighter, the list of your friends on 
wild summer vacations is getting longer and longer. Don’t 
worry: You may be shaping up for exams now that Sum-
mer A is halfway over, but this Summer here in Gainesville is still ﬁ  re. Trafﬁ  c is super light, the lines to the clubs are nearly non-existent and there are fewer people around to 
clog up your Wi-Fi when you’re on an all-night gaming 
spree. Most of all, you’re in for a treat: our senseless ram-blings, our assessment of life’s deepest concerns, our latest segment of…
Darts & Laurels
We know religion and spirituality are touchy subjects for 
us young adults. Some feel very attached to their religious 
values, while others feel more comfortable abstaining from 
religious practice altogether. But for those of you interested 
in, perhaps, re-engaging the church or looking for interest-ing sermons, we’d like to recommend Kanye West’s recent appearance on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” on May 19.
It was a touchy interview for Ellen; West went off on a 
nearly six-and-a-half minute rant on his talent, career, up-bringing and vision for a better humanity. Some of it was incredibly sincere, and we want to give West a laurel for opening up so genuinely and injecting some introspec-
tion into daytime television (and to Ellen for her pa-
tience). But you have to admit: West’s rant was hilarious.  
He went to preach things like: “Everything that I soni-
cally make is a painting. I see it. I see the importance — I 
see the importance and the value of everyone being able to 
experience a more beautiful life.” It’s a beautiful point, but when you go and watch the interview, the awkward vibes in the room and Ellen’s face make the whole thing hilarious to watch. By the end of it, West said, “I’m sorry, daytime 
television. I’m sorry for the realness.” We forgive you for 
getting real, Kanye. Keep on keeping it real.
In political news, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kent., published 
on op-ed in Time magazine Monday. Paul called out the 
perpetual warfare in the Middle East that President Bush 
and President Obama have continued over the years, and he demanded a return to congressional authority on declaring war. Regardless of how you feel on Paul’s commitment to conservatism in the realm of foreign policy, it’s refreshing 
to see Paul return to the sort of discussion his father, Ron 
Paul, brought to the Republican Party.
Looking at how tame Paul got this past election season in 
order to gain political points with his Republican base, it’s 
nice to see him go back to his purism on reducing the mili-
tary industrial complex and re-engaging our foreign policy operatives. So welcome back to sanity, Mr. Paul. We give you a laurel for your coming out of the closet on your true beliefs regarding foreign policy.
We do remain quite concerned with how Paul got behind 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named for the sake of unity in the Republican Party. This is why voters feel disenfranchised with the current political establishment: It’s beholden to 
party lines instead of the people; meanwhile, it boasts of 
its commitment to principles while tossing them aside for the sake of “party unity.” So we give a dart to Paul for his impulsive political decisions regarding the party nomi-nee.  They say maturity comes with age and experience… 
unless you’re getting into politics, it seems.Memorial Day: actually remembering history
Thank you, Mr. Trump.
There is very, very little good that 
has come out of Donald Trump’s presi-
dential run. He’s given America’s radi-
cal minority a face, delegitimized what 
it means to run for the country’s highest of-ﬁ  ce and has brought the public’s perception 
of politics to a new low. However, if there is 
one beneﬁ  t Trump has given America, it is making the entire study of history a leading role in society once again. In a country that prioritizes technology development, history was taking a backseat 
to other disciplines that seemed to be more useful today, 
but history needs to be learned and remembered now more than ever.
Everyone remembers that kid in history class. Either 
when learning about the Shakers of the 19th century or the Carter administration, this fellow classmate would always ﬁ  nd it humorous to raise his hand and ask how learning about the past has any relevance to today and the future. Those teachers now have an answer.
The whole reason we learn history is to keep things 
like Mr. Trump from happening. An election like 2016 couldn’t have happened any other year. Before President Barack Obama, the U.S. still had troops in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan, and the 2008 ﬁ  nancial crisis brought Ameri-
ca’s economy to historic lows. Critics can say what they want, but Americans today have become complacent in a time where they don’t have to worry about troubles as serious as wars and economic crashes.
History classes teach wars so the lessons that can be 
learned from them are understood without having to be reminded by another war. The Great Depression and the ﬁ  nancial crisis in 2008 are supposed to raise aware-
ness of the fragility of economic systems. At the very 
least, people should realize the common denominator of almost all historic events are rooted at decisions made from leaders. When it comes to the U.S., those leaders have been presidents. George Wash-ington, Abraham Lincoln, Franklin D. Roos-
evelt and Donald Trump have led this country 
in its most delicate times. Well, one of those names doesn’t ﬁ  t.
Donald Trump is nothing new. He is a man 
who leads a campaign fueled by hatred and discrimination towards certain demograph-ics? That sounds familiar. There have been 
people like him before, and there will be more alike to come. Trumps are even present in countries with weaker 
political institutions than the U.S., except they’re called 
tyrants. Yes, Americans before us have spent more than 200 years to establish a democratic system that could stand the test of time. Wars have been fought, blood 
has been shed and sacriﬁ  ces have been made. Instead of 
contemporary Americans repaying the efforts of genera-tions that came before them, it seemed like a good idea to mock the system to see how close Americans can get to Trump becoming president of the U.S.
This weekend is about more than just barbecues and a 
day off from school. Memorial Day is a day to remember those who died when serving this country’s armed forc-es. Remember them by not forgetting the consequences 
of their sacriﬁ  ces, and what would have happened if 
some of the pivotal events in America’s history didn’t turn out the way they did. History is to be remembered, not thrown to the wind as time moves on. Sadly, 20 years from now, high school students will learn of the time 
when we were given a chance to play a role in the con-
tinuing history of this country, and we instead used the 2016 presidential election to give Donald Trump multiple pages in American history books.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering 
sophomore. His column appears on Thursdays.
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
“The ethic of conservation is the explicit 
abnegation of man’s dominion over the Earth. The lower species are here 
for our use. God said so: Go forth, be fruitful, multiply, and rape the planet — it’s yours.” -Ann Coulter
Last week, my friends and I had the plea-
sure of enjoying the newly offered Safari Weekend at Paynes Prairie. As venture capi-talists, we see this as a distinct economic op-portunity for the state to attract investment and put our natural resources to good, ad-equate use.
Upon arrival at the park gate, two interna-
tional students from Africa, dressed in African clothing, greet you at the entrance to the park. The safari starts with a welcome reception at the Governor’s Club, inaugurated last year by Gov. Rick Scott, the spearhead of this proj-ect. The Governor’s Club itself is phenomenal with its wood paneling, stone ﬁ  replace and most impressive collection of handguns and riﬂ  es, including the one Jeb Bush put on Twit-ter.Tim Tebow, the game coordina-
tor of the safari, begins the evening with a brief history of Paynes Prai-rie, which until last year remained a barren wilderness, its capital po-tential completely untapped.
The welcoming dinner was sim-
ply exquisite. The old invasive spe-cies on the prairie have since been corralled into a small reserve and are managed and slaughtered on site. The bison steak paired per-fectly with a glass of Golan Heights Syrah (Israel, 2014) and compared favorably to a steak I had once in the Trump Tower with some Goldman Sachs executives and then-Secretary Clinton.
The lodging is quite exceptional: African 
tapestries and zebra pelts complement the wood paneling and open ﬂ  oor plan.
The safari itself starts with a quick ride 
around the park, now much more attractive than before. The marshy areas have been replaced with African-style watering holes, the herds of bison, deer and wild horses replaced by the big ﬁ  ve: ele-phant, rhino, water buffalo, leopard and lion. There is a considerable amount of zebras and ostriches, some warthogs and my wife’s fa-vorite: giraffes. They also replaced the alligators with Nile crocodiles to make it more authentic.
The ﬁ  rst day we just drove 
around and took pictures, joking that it was like being in a combina-tion of "Lion King," "Avatar" and "Jurassic Park," without even go-
ing to Africa and getting malaria!
The real adventure starts the second day 
when you decide if you’ll use a crossbow or a sniper riﬂ  e. The lions are kept in an enclosed area in the middle of the park. The guide, who trained in Zimbabwe, lured one lion away from the pride toward the far end of the en-closure, at which point I shot it dead and left it to bleed.
The guides collected the lion with a giant claw, and the head was mounted on site.
The next day we traveled over to the el-
ephant enclosure, and my son shot a big bull on his third try! I’m going to make him a pipe and reﬁ  t the handle to his favorite pistol.
All in all, the adventure was one of a life-
time; I can’t believe I almost went to Africa when I could have the same experience here without the long ﬂ  ights and untrustworthy souvenir-hawking natives who don’t even speak English.
I highly encourage all fun-loving sports-
men to pursue a safari at Paynes Prairie. The experience is unparalleled, and investment opportunities are even available.
Kudos to the governor and private inves-
tors for not surrendering to inane conserva-tism and the tired policies that had kept all this revenue from the people of the great state of Florida. As the sign says when you leave, hakuna matata!
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF lin-
guistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
“College is going to be the best time of 
your life.”
We’ve all heard it before. Some 
middle-aged family friend has looked at us 
wistfully whilst repeating the maxim about 
making these four years something you will 
treasure until the day you die. Yeah, no pres-
sure there… Just make this new chapter the 
highlight of the entire anthology: Piece of cake, 
right?
Students feel the pressure to make good 
grades, but there’s also this looming pressure to make sure they’re simultaneously having the time of their lives. Ensuring your stint here will be something 
that you treasure for the rest of your 
life is no easy task to fulﬁ  ll.
There are so many different 
choices to make here. There are the 
obvious big ones, such as choos-
ing your major and what to do af-
ter graduation. And there are the 
more minor ones, such as choosing which class period will optimize the 
likelihood of you actually making it 
to class. All of these choices play some role in your college experience.
The best decision you can make 
is being yourself. The phrase, “you do you,” was one of the top-ﬁ  ve 
worst phrases to ever plague hu-
mankind. Who else would you be 
other than yourself? It’s not like 
you’re some amorphous organism 
that has the ability to change form 
or species.
We are who we are; we do what 
we do. But in college, this line 
changes to mean that you should do what you want, aside from the social pressures of your peers. If you want to wear a fuzzy bathrobe 
in the hallway of your residence hall and then 
randomly go to a frat party the next night, you 
should. It’s not like that will be the ﬁ  rst time 
you choose to do something strange in college.
The big secret of college is this: Everyone is 
so caught up in making sure they have the time 
of their life that they don’t care if you go to dis-
cussion in your pajamas three times a week. So just do you — whatever that means.
A version of this column by Amanda 
Chung originally ran in The Daily Californian.UWire
Amanda Chung
UWireMy weekend safari at Paynes Prairie: a look into venture capitalism
The best decisions in college: be yourself and do what you want to doBy RaSheba Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF and Elsevier, a journal publishing compa-
ny, are collaborating to allow more direct access 
to UF researchers’ final publications.  
The dean of university libraries, Judy Rus-
sell, conversed with different groups on campus about getting more content into UF’s institu-tional repository, or IR@UF, where researchers 
submit their articles.
The pilot program began May 19. Russell said 
UF is the only institution currently collaborating 
with Elsevier.
UF researchers, administrators and faculty felt 
it was redundant to put material in ScienceDirect and link published articles back to the same sys-tem, said Benjamin Walker, the assistant dean of digital services and shared collections.
“We have had ScienceDirect as our database 
for a long time here at UF,” Walker said. “The problem we were having with the IR is getting people to load the material into the IR.”
A large number of UF researchers use Scien-
ceDirect to publish their scientific content.
The copies at the IR@UF are pre-publication 
copies and often do not have final changes made.
The collaboration with Elsevier allows there 
to be “a way to populate research without the 
researchers to do more work,” Walker said. 
“We think it is a service to our faculty,” Rus-
sell said. “It is letting them showcase their re-
search and yet we are not having to get the infor-
mation from them.”8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day of the week. 
Come in and check out one of the best wine lists in town. Ask questions 
and learn while you wait for the chef to put out nothing but goodness 
from the kitchen using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or dinner. Open Tues-
Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St. (352) 375-7372Italian
Mildreds and New Deal Cafe
Mildreds: fresh, casual, quick lunch and dinner is great for date night! 
Check out our bar dinners at 7pm on Sat nights, Reserve at 352-371-1711 
or mildredsbigcity@aol.com  
New Deal: UF beef burgers and roman pizzas with happy hour from 
4-7pm dailyAmericanMaude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee since 1995. Tea, smoothies, sandwiches, 
desserts, beer, wine, spirits and much 
more. Great place to meet with 
friends or study groups. Check us out 
on Facebook–Maude’s Classic Cafe 
or Maude’s Side Car Bar–for more 
details and upcoming events.Coffee
THE GUIDE TO
Chicken Salad Chick
The best chicken salad in the south. Stop by weekdays from 5-7pm. 
Show a student ID and get a free large drink with any Chick Special. 
3045 SW 34th St. - University Towne Center
352-375-3418Southern StyleCRIME
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested two Florida 
men Wednesday morning after they said 
the men had 19 confirmed altered credit 
cards.
At about 1 a.m., Brandon resident 
Leonard Obi and Tampa resident Jay-
won Thompson, both 24, tried to use sev-
eral of the cards at the Butler Plaza Wal-Mart, 
according to a police report.
An employee be-
came suspicious and 
called police after the 
cards were declined, 
according to the report. The men were 
then found at a neighboring CVS, where 
they tried to buy $400 in gift cards. 
Thompson gave the officers several 
cards, many of which had stickers with fake security numbers and magnetic 
strips that did not match the cards’ num-bers, according to the report. Obi hid a wallet in a CVS aisle after 
he saw Thompson talking with police, according to the report. Authorities soon 
found the wallet, which held more al-
tered cards.
About two hours earlier, both men 
traveled in a car with two other people who were arrested for possession of  48 fraudulent credit cards, according to the 
report.  
Police arrested both 
men on charges for traf-
ficking in counterfeit 
credit cards and schem-
ing to defraud and ob-
tain property. Obi was 
also charged for tam-pering with evidence. 
Authorities took 
them to the Alachua County jail where, as of press time, Thompson remains in 
lieu of a $60,000 bond, and Obi remains 
in lieu of an $80,000 bond.
@saradmarino
smarion@alligator.orgMen charged with fraud 
Thompson
 Obi
CAMPUS
UF libraries start program 
with publisher Elsevier
HOW IT WORKS
• ScienceDirect links back to the 
full article within IR@UF
• Users find articles more easily
• ScienceDirect tracks article reach and usage
• Elsevier articles are found on one platform instead of multipleTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Ballyhoo Grille
Proudly serving Gainesville since 1998. We offer the most diverse options 
ranging from pasta, sandwiches, burgers, sushi, salads, ﬂ  atbreads, grill 
items, and fresh seafood. We also serve the best wine and beer in town. 
Happy Hour is from 2pm to 7pm daily, plus all night on Tuesdays and 
Wednesdays. If you are looking for a unique graduation meal, head 
over to Ballyhoo. We have great service and outdoor seating that can 
accommodate any graduation party for the student’s big day. 
Located at 3700 W University Ave. 
325-373-0059Bar & GrillFor information on advertising in the Guide to Dining Out contact
Alligator Advertising •  352-376-4482
Vegan2Go Restaurant
7625 West Newberry Rd, west of the Oaks mall. Thanks for many good feedbacks on yelp.com and happycow.net. We offer 100% dairy/egg-
free & meat free menu, Non-GMO tofu, no MSG, Gluten, soy & oil free 
options. Some of the popular items: spring & summer rolls, drumsticks, BBQ 
skewers, rice & noodle combo, superfood quinoa salad, curry rice, tempeh 
rice, veggie pizza, philly sub, raw mango salad & cheese cake, whole 
wheat carrot cake. 10% student discount. vegan meal plan: $95/week.
Open Mon, Wed, Thu 11am-8pm, Fri-Sat 11am-9PM.
http://www.vegan2go.us/
352-505-8894VeganLeonardo’s of Milhopper
Great Chicago Style pizza, Quick slices now 
available all day and night. On the way to and 
from Santa Fe College. On the corner of NW 
16th Blvd. and 43rd Street. 
Tear this out for 20% OFF meal. 
4131 NW 16th Blvd in Milhopper Square
352-376-2001Pizza
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, food! Soups, 
salads, sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, savory wafﬂ  e 
cones, homemade sweets, juices and 
smoothies. Vegan/gluten free options.
436 SE 2nd St. 
dailygreendowntown.org
Like us on Facebook 
w-sat 11-7, sun brunch 10-3Organic
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% organic ice cream 
in town! We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan ice cream, 
baked goods, sandwiches, fair trade 
coffee, tea, organic beer and free WI-FI.
Mon-Fri 8am-12am Sat&Sun 10am-12amFrozen TreatsUF’S WIND HAZARD 
DAMAGE ASSESSMENT 
TEAM SAID IT MIGHT 
HA VE BEEN A TORNADO.
By Marina Masterson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Flying lounge chairs and fall-
ing trees welcomed visiting fami-
lies to UF last Friday when tour 
groups experienced a damaging 
storm.
Three campus tour groups and 
the orientation session, Preview, 
were caught in a rainstorm with 
high-speed winds that ravished the Student Recreation & Fitness Center’s pool area just after 11 a.m.
Though the entire campus and 
surrounding areas experienced severe storms, UF’s Wind Hazard Damage Assessment Team re-
ported the pool area might have 
experienced a tornado with 65 to 85 mph winds.
TaylorJay Roberts, 18, is an 
incoming UF freshman who expe-rienced the storm while passing 
the pool area with her Preview 
group. Roberts said she wished the Preview staffers had been bet-ter trained for such situations.
“We were walking to the sta-
dium, and next thing we know the wind starts howling, water in the pool started splashing and a tree went down,” Roberts said. “The 
staffers were just yelling at us to 
get into the corner.”
The situation was chaotic and 
scary for some, she said, because 
it was clear the staffers were un-
sure how to get visitors to safety, she said.
“There was a lot of panic,” she 
said. “Even the staffers were won-
dering what they should do now.”
Roberts said she was hit by 
sand and leaves and got debris in 
her eyes. Branches hit a couple of 
the staffers, and a ﬂ  ying lounge chair hit a touring student, she 
said. 
Still, she said the experience 
did not affect her opinion of UF.
“It did affect my opinion of 
Preview, though,” Roberts said. “Yes, we are all adults, but I ex-pected (the staffers) to watch over 
us.”
Roberts said she felt the uni-
versity should keep a better eye 
on the weather when planning tours and have an emergency 
route planned for the rest of Sum-
mer.
“The wind was just insane,” 
said Alex Wagner, a 21 year-old 
UF general business senior and 
a  Preview tour guide, said, “I’ve been in an earthquake before of 8.15 magnitude and it was little like this storm, but not to the ex-
tent with the wind and rain.”
The tour groups were walking 
on the east side of the stadium 
across from the pool area when 
palm fronds began ﬂ  ying at the group, followed by lawn chairs 
that were lifted from the pool area and ﬂ  ung over the fence, Wagner said.
The damage in this area includ-
ed broken lounge chairs, a fallen tree, dented cars that got hit with ﬂ  ying objects and a metal awning 
that was ripped off the pool area.
“We’re not trained for ﬂ  ying 
chairs,” he said. “That was unex-
pected.” 
Sandy Hayden, the assistant di-
rector of admissions and the man-ager of the Welcome Center, does not think tours will change this Summer or that a rain plan will 
be created.
“When people register (for 
tours), they are told to bring sun-
screen, water bottles and umbrel-las,” Hayden said. “When we 
know it’s going to rain, we hand 
out ponchos.”
No visitors have called the 
Welcome Center to complain 
about the experience, she said.“They know we can’t control 
the weather,” Hayden said.
Because UF is a public institu-
tion, the state of Florida would pay for any other major damages,  
said Diane James, UF’s assistant director of risk management and aquatics for RecSports.
“It was scary,” Roberts said, 
“but it made Preview memora-ble.”
 UF campus tours disrupted by high-speed rainstorm
• Student Recreation Center pool
• Sisler Hall
• Old President’s House
• Fletcher Drive at Thomas Hall
• Buckman Hall
Source: UF Tornado and 
Severe Weather ReportAreas affected by 
the storm10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
3 bedroom FLOORPLANS
Arlingtonsquare.org |  352.338.0002 |  207 SE 2nd Place, Suite i-13
The Only
 Apartments!
oxfordmanor.org | 352.260.0487 | 2777 SW Archer Rd
 OxfordManor    @OxfordManorGNV
call today for current specials! ACTIVATE YOUR LIFESTYLE
call today for current specials!
OM-Alligator Ad_5.12.15-2015-R8933-v1r0-FINAL.indd   1 5/8/15   2:42 PM
waived
$200
LEASING FEES
$250 SAVINGS!
WITH SAME DAY
SHOW & SIGN 352.377.4070 | thegatewayatglades.com
200
200
GIFT CARD
SIGN A LEASE  
AND RECEIVE A  
Limited time offer
Receive a $200 Visa Gift Card when you move in by May 30th.
3205 NW 83rd Street, Gainesville, FL 32606  |   352.745.3442  |  thecrossingatsantafe.com□CLEAN  OUT THE  FRIDGE□
Invent New  
BREAKFAST  
foods
 FacebookTROLL 
YOUR 
FRIENDS 
ONWorkoutGET IN      A GOOD
W
ork
W
ork
W
Live at The Crossing at Santa Fe 
where you have time to do “whatever” 
and still get to class on time.
Text “SantaFe” to 47464 for more info.
3801 SW 13th St ]  352.336.3838     Upgraded 
3 & 4 BR units are availableDon’t Wait
2/2.5’s for $505
3/3’s for $495 
4/4’s for $425
Prices are based on availability.Enjoy an Upgraded Lifestyle
thelandingsgainesville.com
2 & 3 BR Apartments Starting at 
$
939
CURRENT SPECIALS! 
CALL OR VISIT TODAY
352.372.8100 
 •
 3515 SW 39
TH
 BLVD 
 •
GREENWICHGREEN.NET  
prices subject 
to changeCombine your independence 
with the convenience 
of living on campus— 
Across the street from UF!
collegeparkgainesville.com • 352.371.7777   College Park 
+ You 
Chocolate + 
Peanut ButterCake + 
Ice CreamBacon + 
Everything
PERFECT COMBINATIONS:
oxfordmanor.org   |  352.377.2777   |  2777 SW Archer Rd
Colliercompanies.comAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
RIGHT:
One of the renovations to Co-frin Nature Park, as part of its beautification efforts, is a bridge crossing Beville Creek.  Although the new bridge, left, was not in the plans for Cofrin Park’s beautification project due to prior budgetary re-strictions, it has now become a focal point of the park after the removal of the septic tank. 
Cofrin Nature 
Park renovated 
through local 
beautiﬁ  cation 
projectDave Kratzer,
Thank you.  
Your leadership taught us all how to elevate the student experience.
The Gator Nation is stronger, more dynamic and 
on the rise thanks in large part to your service to the University of Florida as Vice President for Student Affairs. 
Happy retirement!
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
ABOVE:
Don Musen, a 51-year-old habitat naturalist with the City of 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation & Cultural Affairs Department, leads people on a tour of Cofrin Nature Park’s beautification efforts, which include dynamic shoreline reinforcement, removal of the septic system and installment of a bridge. 
BELOW:
The director of the department, Steven Phillips, explains the beau-tification efforts made to the park and recognizes all contributors that made the project possible. “The way we treat our little bit of Beville Creek here at Cofrin Nature Park really has a big impact on Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Hanging out in Gainesville this weekend?
Here are some events to do while you’re here,  pg. 14By Kirsten Chuba 
Avenue Writer
Lovers of Gainesville’s music 
scene will have one last chance 
this weekend to enjoy a beloved lo-
cal venue before it closes its doors. 
The Jam, located at 817 W. Uni-
versity Ave., will host Spirit Fest, a three-day music festival with more 
than 30 bands performing, start-
ing Friday. Food, art and clothing 
vendors will also participate in the 
festival, with acroyoga performers 
and live painting demonstrations. 
Headliners include Morning Fatty, Flat Land and Locochino, with 
shows taking place in both The 
Jam’s indoor and outdoor stages. 
These performances will be the 
last ones at The Jam, as it will shut down at the end of May after al-
most four years. During that time, 
The Jam has hosted more than 1200 musical performances and 
more than 20 charity events, said 
owner and manager Blake Briand. 
The Jam began as a hobby for 
Briand and his co-founders, sib-
lings Veronica and Eduardo Are-
nas, but quickly became some-thing special in the Gainesville 
music scene. 
“I think we helped revitalize a 
somewhat stagnant music scene,” Briand said. “I’ve been told by a 
lot of people that The Jam kind of 
brought the music scene back a 
little bit… gave it a style or vibe that wasn’t there before.”
Briand found out in early April 
The Jam would close in the next few weeks, to be torn down and replaced by apartments and retail 
space, and he immediately began 
to plan how the venue would say goodbye to it’s loyal fans. 
“The very ﬁ  rst thought right off 
the bat was, ‘We have to go out big, we’ve got to do something that 
leaves a mark,’” he said.
Briand wrote an open letter to all of the bands he knew in Gainesville and a few outside of 
town, hoping to put together some kind of goodbye show. Within two days, he said, he had more than 30 
bands willing to come play the ﬁ  -
nal weekend at The Jam. 
The three-day music festival is 
something that “may be the larg-est event ever put on by a single 
music venue in the history of Gainesville,” Briand said. “To my knowledge, what we have planned 
has never been done before.” 
As for the name Spirit Fest, 
Briand took inspiration from the 
goodbye notes people had started 
to write on the wall of The Jam in 
the last few weeks. 
“One of them read something 
to the effect of ‘The world works in mysterious ways,’ and the last 
line was ‘prepare for spirit mode,’” he said. “That was like the spirit of 
The Jam will live on forever and 
maybe we’ll pop back up some-
where else. Spirit Fest felt right 
because that’s kind of what we’re 
doing, we’re transforming into 
something else.” 
To make the ﬁ  nal weekend a 
true tribute to The Jam, all 200 per-formers, artists and vendors have 
agreed to participate in Spirit Fest 
pro bono. 
John Pop, bass player for Morn-
ing Fatty, said the band has been playing The Jam since it opened its doors in 2012. “We used to play there every 
Tuesday back when it was a single room with a stage the size of my bathroom,” he said. “We’ve made plenty of money playing there over 
the years, it seemed right to help 
Blake out with some closing costs.”
Though Morning Fatty has 
played shows throughout Florida and the Southeast, Pop said the 
venue is unlike anywhere else the 
band has played. 
“The Jam has always felt like 
we were playing a big house party,” he said. “We built a large 
portion of our fan base by playing 
there. It will be missed.”
Locochino credits The Jam with 
much of the band’s growth in the 
Gainesville music scene and didn’t 
even hesitate when deciding to play Spirit Fest for free.
“The friendships and experi-
ences that we’ve made there have been a large part of sculpting Lo-
cochino into what we are today, if 
for no other reason than the solid foundation that comes with The Jam family’s genuine support for 
the arts,” said Dave Johnson, the 
manager for the band.
Locochino will be playing two 
shows at Spirit Fest, one Saturday 
night and one Sunday night, and 
Johnson wants the audience to be 
ready to “dance their asses off dur-
ing Saturday’s set and maybe cry a little at Sunday’s.” 
For Briand, the goal of Spirit Fest 
is to give back to the Gainesville music scene that has given him so 
much. 
“We want people to have a 
great experience, like a last hoo-
rah, we want everyone to have a 
great experience and enjoy that,” 
he said. “I don’t want to ﬁ  zzle 
out. I’m trying to burn bright for 
a shorter period of time, do some-thing big.”
Tickets can be bought online at 
squareup.com, where it is $20 for a three-day pass or $10 for a one day 
pass. Performances start at 5:30 
p.m. on Friday, and at 2 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.The Jam to close its doors after hosting Spirit Fest
MUSIC
Q&A with local band Former Planets: 
The Avenue sits down with Jason Small, pg. 13Courtesy to the Alligator
Blake Briand, center, with the band members of Locochino after one of their many shows at The Jam. The band credits the music 
venue with much of its growth and success on the Gainesville music scene. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Blake Briand, The Jam’s owner and manager, said the venue has hosted over 1,200 musical performances in the last four years. 
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Former Planets, a Gainesville-
based rock band made up of Jason 
Small (lead vocals), Evan Johnson (guitar and vocals), Korkut Genc (bass) and Brook Stermer (drums), 
have been making music around 
town for the last two years. I sat down with Small before the band’s Friday night show at the Hardback Cafe, located at 211 W. University Ave. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did Former 
Planets get started?
Jason Small: Former Planets 
started in July of 2014 when our gui-tarist, Evan, decided to step down from being the lead singer of “We the Invader” and focus on playing guitar. I was singing and playing guitar in “The Upside” at the time, but things were slowing down due to members moving away from Gainesville, so I joined up with Evan. The other 
three original members had grown 
up with Evan in Keystone Heights. We decided to start fresh with a new name and Former Planets was born.
KC: How would you describe 
your sound?
JS: When we started, we liked 
to joke that we sounded like a cross between Taking Back Sunday and 
the Gin Blossoms. That melding of 
the poppier side of ‘90s alternative rock and the energy and intense vo-cals of early 2000s “emo” formed the basis of our songwriting, at least at the beginning. Our bassist, Korkut, joined after most of the ﬁ  rst album was written, but before it was re-
corded. His inﬂ  uences were deﬁ  -
nitely outside the realm of punk and emo, and our writing has branched out signiﬁ  cantly in the last year and a half. We try not to dictate the style of our songs as long as they sound like “us.” We have metal-tinged rock songs, bouncy pop songs and tunes that wouldn’t sound out of 
place in the parking lot of a mid-
’80s Bon Jovi concert. Sometimes people at punk shows don’t get it, but at the end of the day we spend our time and energy on this to make ourselves happy, and that’s all that really matters. 
KC: Where has the band per-
formed?
JS: We’ve had the opportunity to 
play a lot of great shows in the last year and a half. Here in Gainesville, we’ve played with some great na-tional artists like Art Alexakis of “Everclear,” Brian Bell of “Weezer” and just last week with “Rehasher,” the side-project from “Less than Jake’s” bassist/singer Roger Lima. 
We’ve also been able to play in a 
bunch of cities around Florida. If the right opportunity arose we’d gladly take some longer trips, but nothing is in the works at the moment.
KC: What can people expect from your show at the Hardback?
JS: It’s going to be a very fun, 
“incestuous” show. The other local 
band, “Southpaw,” features our for-
mer bass player who grew up with Evan, and the touring band, “Hans Gruber and the Die Hards,” hails from Austin, Texas, where I am from.  A previous band of mine even played some shows with some of Hans’ members years ago in Austin. The Hardback is a very cool, laid-
back venue that books bands from 
out of town many nights of the week, so it’s always fun for us to get to help support DIY bands from around the country. The Die Hards are a very fast punk band, and Southpaw self-identiﬁ  es as “emo,” so there should be a good variety of music over the course of the evening.
KC: Can you talk about your al-
bum, which you released last sum-mer?
JS: We had originally planned to 
write, record and release an album before we ever announced that we existed, but after writing and re-hearsing for several months, we decided we couldn’t wait that long 
to start playing shows. Those early 
performances helped us reﬁ  ne our chops and allowed us to reproduce that live energy on our ﬁ  rst album. We recorded with Rob McGregor at Goldentone — a place that many now-famous Gainesville bands made albums in their early years, like “Hot Water Music” and “Against Me!” 
It was a bit of a piecemeal process, recorded over many evenings last 
spring, but it turned out great and re-ally captured the spirit of the band at 
the time.  We’ve since had a lineup 
shift, losing two members (amica-bly) to personal issues, but we’ve al-ready written more than an album’s worth of new material with our new drummer, Brook, and will be starting work on our second album later this summer.
KC: What do you guys think 
about the Gainesville music scene, particularly for local bands?
JS: There were a few lean years 
for local music, but it seems like the scene is slowly repairing itself. The biggest thing we notice is that many bands in town are making it a point to support each other and come out to shows. Part of it is networking, 
for sure, but it helps build a sense of 
camaraderie between the many mu-sicians all trying to get their songs heard in Gainesville. We’ve been able to make some good friends in bands from across the state as well who are always willing to help trade shows and build a statewide scene for “punk” music and its hundreds 
of offshoots and subsidiary genres.
Former Planets will be playing 
at the Hardback with “Hans Gruber 
and the Die Hards,” “Southpaw” and “Jason Guy Smiley.” Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 10 p.m. show, and tick-ets are $5 at the door. 
Know of any other local bands I 
should check out? Send Kirsten an 
email at kchuba@alligator.org.
Q&A: sitting down with Jason Small of Former Planets
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Former Planets will play at Hardback Cafe on Friday night.
By Kirsten Chuba 
Avenue Writer
An original play written by one 
of Gainesville’s own will debut at 
the Gainesville Community Play-house this weekend. 
Esteban Alvarez, a graduate of 
UF’s Levin College of Law, wrote and directed “Turning Tables,” a comedy that opens Friday and runs through June 12. 
Performances will be Thursdays 
and Fridays at 8 p.m., Saturdays at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. and Sundays at 2 p.m. Tonight, there will be a special preview performance of the show at 8 p.m., and tickets will be $5, ﬁ  rst come, ﬁ  rst-served.
“The play starts out with two 
blackmailers checking into a ho-tel,” Alvarez said. “They soon real-ize their victims are also staying in the same hotel. They get nervous and decide to try to poison their victims. However, things go wrong and hilarity ensues.” 
This run at the GCP, located at 
4039 NW 16th Blvd., will be the ﬁ  rst time “Turning Tables” will be performed with a full set, costumes and lights, he said. The show is also a milestone for GCP, as it is the ﬁ  rst original work the play-house has produced in more than 25 years. 
Alvarez said he came up with 
the idea for the play from seeing “shows where people are moving a body to keep it hidden. However, I had never seen a show where peo-ple are trying to hide multiple bod-ies, whether dead or unconscious. So, I decided to try to write one.”He promises laughs for the au-
dience, with classic farce elements of mistaken identity, quick banter and highly improbable scenarios. 
Tickets can be purchased in 
person at the GCP box ofﬁ  ce or by calling 352-376-4949. Tickets are $20 for regular admission, $16 for seniors and $12 for children and students with valid ID, according to the show’s Facebook page. 
Original show to debut at GNV Community Playhouse14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Looking for something fun to do 
this Memorial Day weekend? The 
Avenue has got you covered. Here are some of the Gainesville highlights for art, food and entertainment: 
Friday:
Artwalk will be taking over down-
town Gainesville this Friday, and First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., will be taking part with a photography ex-hibit and live music from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Eight local artists will also be showcasing their work, and interac-tive art is available with an exhibit by Painting with a Twist, according to 
the event Facebook page. 
Market Street Gainesville will host 
a night right out of the movies Friday 
when the men of the “Magic Mike Male Revue” come to town. Drink specials start at 8 p.m., and the show starts at 9 p.m., with tickets available for $20 on squadup.com. Channing Tatum may not make an appearance, but this is the next best thing, right?
Saturday:
To beneﬁ  t Micanopy Middle 
School, Historic Micanopy will hold a Memorial Day Art and Music Walk on Saturday from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. The event will feature art demonstra-
tions, food trucks, live music and a 
World War II guest speaker, accord-ing to the event Facebook page. 
The ‘70s will make a brief come-
back Saturday at The Midnight, lo-cated at 223 S. Main St., with a disco dance party. A DJ  will play classic disco music from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., and dressing up in ‘70s attire is en-couraged. 
Sunday:
Sunday is the last day of Gaines-
ville’s $5 taco week, so take advan-tage of the deals while they last. Par-ticipating businesses include Tijuana Flats, Moe’s, Burrito Brothers and Las Margaritas, and you must down-load the free Gift Certiﬁ  cates and More app to get the deal. 
“Born to be Blue,” a highly re-
viewed 2015 ﬁ  lm starring Ethan Hawke, is playing at the Hippodrome on Sunday at 2 p.m. The ﬁ  lm follows jazz legend Chet Baker in his famous career and his heroin addiction, ac-cording to the Hippodrome’s web-site. Here’s what to do if you’re in Gainesville this weekend 
LOCALBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   5-31-16-41-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE  5 bed/ 2 bath, great downtown location.   2 balconies, wood floors,  great character.   320 NW 1st Street.  Call 352-377-3110, or email simp-sonm@ufl.edu.    6-9-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
US NATIONAL FOREST FRONT LIQUIDATION5 Acres $9,900! Pristine Preserve Property Borders the Country's Best Trail System! Call Today for a Preview Showing 1-888-270-4695       5-26-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10Church FurnitureDoes your Church need PewsPulpit Set, Baptistery, Steeple, Windows?BIG SALE on new cushioned Pews & Pew Chairs 1-800-231-8360   www.pews1.com     5-26-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647    5-26-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
5-31-16-7-14Retired person needs student P/T a few hrs per week (8-12) for yard work, house -
keeping, etc. Home close to UF. $9. per hr. Short resume, reply with time/hrs available. ghpolkgator@gmail.com    6-2-7-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Experienced stunt base needed to 
work with 95lb high school cheer flyer.
Call 352-226-7040
5-26-16-5-14
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION DIRECTOR
Unitarian Universalist Fellowship
PT, Sundays reqd, $16K + benefits
Details at www.uufg.org
dresearch@uufg.org
6-2-16-5-14
English tutor needed ($15 to $20/hour). A local professional is looking for a tutor to help improve conversational English. If inter-ested, please contact bgaolist@gmail.com.    5-31-3-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
Career Opportunities at 
On Top of the World in Ocala, FL
 CADD Technician – seeking an experienced, 
detail oriented CADD Technician with a mini-mum of 5 years of experience and a solid background in producing complete construc-tion documents. Experience in AutoCAD a must, possess working knowledge of build -
ing systems and construction methods, task oriented, have the ability to coordinate with clients and consultants and be proficient at multi-tasking in order to handle several proj-ects at once.
Marketing Systems Coordinator-To pro-
vide support and back up to the Marketing Systems Coordinator with all marketing relat-ed materials online and internally. Reporting directly to the Marketing Manager while maintaining communication with all team members of the Marketing Department and related entities.
Contact On Top of the World Human 
Resource Department to apply or for more information Hiring@OTOWFL.com <mailto:Hiring@OTOWFL.com> or 352-387-7422  OnTopoftheWorld.com    5-31-16-5-14
FT Ophthalmic Tech (on-the-job training avail.) Exceptional social & verbal com-munication skills. Polite & professional. Dependable, good work ethic, reliable trans-portation. Work Monday thru Friday. Great benefits. melissastandridge@gmail.com6-2-16-4-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
6-7-16-5-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
MATH TUTOR. Live tutoring online
at calcprof.com.  Former UF professor.
Over 15 years teaching experience.
Eve. & weekend hours avail.
$20-$40/hr. (352) 354-3706
5-31-16-8-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion! 855-479-7963       5-26-1-15Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?
Settle for a fraction of what you owe!
Results may vary.
Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates  1-877-330-3429      5-26-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305      5-26-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855-389-3099      5-26-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855-995-3142      5-26-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18Now hiring PT Zip Line GuidesApply at The Canyons Zip Lines8045 NW Gainesville RdOcala, Fl 34475www.zipthecanyons.com     6-7-16-5-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers – Avg. $60k+/yr$2K Sign-On Bonus Voted Best Fleet 2016Love Your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req’d  (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    5-26-1-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate,  Lifetime Job Placement,VA BenefitsNational Average $18.00-$22.00    5-26-1-14
EXPERIENCED  OTR  FLATBED DRIVERS  (North) Earn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign On to qualified drivers. Good home time. Call 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghi -
way.com EOE      5-26-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Kyra Jefferson and the Florida track and ﬁ  eld teams compete in the NCAA Championships East Preliminary today.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.Florida baseball vs. LSU (late)
The Florida baseball team faced off against LSU on Day 2  of the Southeastern 
Conference T ournament on Wednesday night. For results and complete coverage from the game, visit alligator.org/sports.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
One series separates Florida 
from punching one of eight tickets 
to the Women’s College World Se-
ries in Oklahoma City. 
No. 16-seeded Georgia will 
try to knock off the No. 1-seeded 
Gators in a three-game series start-ing tonight at 7 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. Georgia is one 
of six Southeastern Conference 
teams that made it to college soft-ball’s Super Regionals. 
“We’ve watched them a 
bunch,” coach Tim Walton said. “We’ve scouted them. But (we) haven’t played them a whole lot in the last couple years, so it’ll be deﬁ  nitely different.”
The Bulldogs have proven 
themselves so far. Despite ﬁ  nish-ing eighth in the SEC, they’re still competing for a national title. 
But No. 1 seed Florida (56-5, 
20-4 SEC) is coming in conﬁ  dent in its ability to muzzle No. 16 seed Georgia (43-18/12-12 SEC). The 
Gators are 14-1 in Super Regional 
home games. 
But Florida isn’t as familiar 
with this Georgia team as it's been 
in years past. 
Georgia was one of four SEC 
schools UF didn’t play in the regu-
lar season. The last time the two met, Florida won both legs of an 
Athens doubleheader on April 18, 
2015. 
“I really like the fact that we 
haven’t played them yet,” senior 
Kirsti Merritt said. “It’s almost like 
we’re playing a whole new team, even though we’ve played them in the past.” 
The most important matchup 
in the series will be between Flor-ida’s pitching staff and Georgia’s 
hitters. 
The two pitchers with the na-
tion’s best ERAs, UF’s Aleshia 
Ocasio (0.65) and Delanie Gourley 
(0.70), have been practically un-
hittable this season, but the Bull-dogs’ offense may be UF's tough-est test. 
As a team, Georgia has a .352 
batting average — the fourth high-est in college softball and better than any opponent Florida has faced. 
For a personiﬁ  cation of the 
Bulldog bats, look no further than power-hitter Tina Iosefa. A senior, Iosefa leads the NCAA with 86 RBIs. No one else has 80. 
When it comes to the long ball, 
she’s tied for ﬁ  rst with 23 home runs.
Limiting Iosefa and the rest of 
the Georgia offense will be critical for the Gators, who have heavily UF softball set to open Super 
Regionals against Georgia  
Game time is 7 p.m.Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio (8) and the rest of the Gators walk toward the dugout before UF's 11-0 win over 
Alabama State on Friday. 
PEREZ, ORKIN AND 
WOOLCOCK ALL 
ADVANCED.
By Dylan Dixon and Jake 
Dreilinger
Sports Writers
After the Florida men’s tennis 
team’s season ofﬁ  cially ended last weekend in the quarterﬁ  nals of the NCAA Championship, several Gators received an opportunity on Wednesday to compete as indi-viduals.
The UF trio of senior Diego 
Hidalgo, junior Elliott Orkin and freshman Alfredo Perez participat-ed in the Round of 64 of the NCAA Men’s Singles Championship at the Michael D. Case Tennis Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Two advanced to the next round.
Perez defeated Columbia’s 
Shawn Hadavi 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 to win his 36th singles match this season, and Orkin bested NC State’s Simon Norenius 7-5, 6-2 for his 30th sin-gles win this season.
Hidalgo, however, struggled to 
gather a rhythm against South Flor-ida’s Dominic Cotrone, falling to Cotrone 6-2, 6-4. The senior from Guayaquil, Ecuador, concluded his collegiate career with a 64-32 re-cord in singles play.
Perez will face Wake Forest’s 
Petros Chrysochos and Orkin will face Virginia’s Ryan Shane today in 
Trio of UF tennis 
players win at NCAAs IT'S COHEN DOWN
In a tense Okla-
homa City locker room, 
broadcasted on 
TNT’s telecast 
just before Game 4 of the NBA's West-
ern Conference Fi-
nals, Billy Donovan sits in a chair and stares at a semicircle of million-aires.
“If each team makes 100 shots 
tonight, and each team shoots 50 percent, that means there will be 50 loose balls,” Donovan says. 
“We have to win every single one 
of them.”
That was the former Florida 
coach’s message to his team be-fore tipoff. That was his message 
right before Kevin Durant and Rus-
sell Westbrook dismantled one of the best teams in NBA history, the Golden State Warriors, for the sec-
ond time in three days.
That was his message, and it was received.
Suddenly, Donovan 
ﬁ  nds himself with a 3-1 series lead against the 
NBA’s MVP, Stephen Curry, who led his team to 73 wins during the 
regular season, a mark 
even Michael Jordan’s Bulls never reached.
That begs the question: What 
the hell is going on in Oklahoma 
City?
As I watched the game, I won-
dered, and I was shocked. All 
season, I had seen Golden State 
destroy its opponents, game after 
game, as Curry rested in the fourth quarter, usually because his team was already leading by at least 20 points and didn’t need his scoring.
I didn’t understand what was 
happening, so like any clueless millennial searching for answers to sports’ most burning questions, I Billy Donovan 
deserves credit  for 
managing Thunder
SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 20SEE COLUMN,  PAGE19
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbTHURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
depended on shutouts. Florida is just 5-3 when 
their opponent scores more than two runs. 
Coach Walton has noticed the trend as well. 
“This year, there's been a lot of low-scoring 
games. In most of those cases, we've needed ev-
ery bit of those shut-out innings."
Florida will waltz into the WCWS if it can score 
a handful of runs against Georgia. The Gators are 33-0 when they score at least six runs. 
First pitch is at 7 tonight.Game 2 will be at 5 p.m. Friday, and if neces-
sary, Game 3 at 8 p.m. Friday.
Games 1 and 2 will be broadcast on ESPN2. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 18Florida is 
33-0 when scoring at least six runs 
turned to Twitter.
There, pundits were making 
the obvious appraisals: Durant 
and Westbrook are crazy good. Wesbrook may be the most 
athletic basketball player in the game's history and Durant, 
the former MVP and four-time 
scoring champion, is simply showing off the skillset that brought the Thunder to a Finals appearance in his ﬁ  fth year in the league.
But then I stumbled across 
an anecdote that was making its way around social media, told by Tim Bontemps of the Washington Post.
He and other media mem-
bers witnessed Westbrook, dur-ing the game, order Donovan to remove backup center Enes 
Kanter from the court. West-
brook didn’t agree with Dono-van’s decision to have him in the game. 
Donovan obliged.
Yes, the Thunder are led by 
their two megastars, catapult-
ing them through the Western Conference as quickly as their 
team’s logo would suggest.
But give credit to Donovan. 
A ﬁ  rst-year coach in the NBA, 
the former University of Florida legend has found success with 
an established team with an 
established culture and estab-lished egos, surprisingly guid-ing them past the NBA’s elite and through the postseason.
Give credit to Donovan, 
even understanding that the Thunder have been close to a Finals appearance in each of the three years before Dono-
van arrived, and that OKC has 
more talent on one team than most NBA teams compile in a decade.
Give credit to Donovan, who 
must be doing something right, even if I don’t fully understand what it is, as evidenced by me staring dumbfounded at my TV, 
game after game, and wonder-
ing how the Warriors are losing so laughably.
What the hell is going on in 
Oklahoma City?
Give credit to Donovan be-
cause, at the very least, he's had a large role in the Thun-der's success.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org  COLUMN,  from pg 18'What the hell is going on in Oklahoma City?'
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Oklahoma City's Kevin Durant (left) and coach Billy Donovan 
look on during  Game 3 of the Western Conference Finals.
the Round of 32.
While Hidalgo was eliminated 
from the singles tournament, he is 
also participating in the NCAA Men’s 
Doubles Championship, which be-
gins today as well.
Hidalgo will compete with fellow 
senior Gordon Watson as the brack-
et’s No. 1 seed, facing Stanford’s 
Tom Fawcett and Maciek Romanow-
icz in the Round of 32.
Women’s Tennis
No. 4-ranked Brooke Austin, No. 11-ranked Belinda Woolcock and No. 40-ranked Kourtney Keegan each began play Wednesday in hopes of 
advancing through the NCAA Indi-
vidual Championship.
Woolcock was the only UF ath-
lete to win, ﬁ  ghting through two tie-breakers en route to a 8-6, 9-7 victory over Northwestern’s No. 52-ranked Maddie Lipp .
Keegan couldn't ﬁ  nd her footing 
against Ohio State’s No. 3-ranked Francesca Di Lorenzo, as she lost 6-0, 7-5. 
After a rain delay, Austin was upset 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 by Rice’s No. 104-ranked Katherine Ip.
Woolcock will play Alabama’s 
No. 23 Erin Routliffe in the second round today.
No. 3 Austin and Keegan will rep-
resent Florida in the doubles portion of the tournament in their ﬁ  rst-round matchup against Syracuse’s No. 27 Gabriela Knutson and Valeria Salazar Garza today. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org 
@dylanrdixon 
ddixon@alligator.org20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 26, 2016
ALL INCLUSIVE 
AND REDUCED 
SIGNING FEESLUXURY LIVING…REDEFINED
Limited time offer.
352.376.0696  |  THEENCLAVEGAINESVILLE.COM
BE CONFIDENT
352.373.2000  
campusclubgainesville.com
IN YOUR DECISIONS
Prices subject to change
VALUEexcellentextra
AMENITIESstarting at$395
352.373.9009 | 3700 SW 27th St.
lexingtoncrossingapts.com      New homes | New gym
New Lifestyle
lux13apartments.com | 352.374.3866       YOU
DESERVE
IT.
LIVE HERE, WALK 
352.372.7111
CollegeManor.org
COMMUNITIES
STEPS TO CAMPUS.
Studios, One & Two Bedroom Apartments in the Heart of Gainesville
ThePolosGainesville.com • 352.335.7656 • 2330 SW Williston Rd
DON’T MISS OUT ON OUR GREAT SPECIALS!
Colliercompanies.comTENNIS,  from pg 18UF's Woolcock won two tiebreakers
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Belinda Woolcock returns a ball during UF's 6-1 win over USF on 
Jan. 27. 
