IT’S NEAR THE 
RAWLINGS BUS STOP .
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students and faculty may 
have a new parking garage in 
two years.
UF’s Transportation and 
Parking Services is planning a 
new garage near the McCarty 
buildings and the Rawlings bus stop, said Scott Fox, the direc-tor of Transportation and Park-ing Services. The garage is in the development stages and exact costs haven’t been determined.  
Fox said he expects this 
would help with UF’s lack of 
parking.
“We are always looking 
ahead at ways to maintain our 
parking supply,” Fox said.
The garage would replace 
some of the parking that has been lost in the last few years, including 110 spaces lost to the construction of a new chemistry 
building on University Avenue, 
he said.
Garages are preferred to park-
ing lots, because they use space more efﬁ  ciently, he said.
“We have tried to replace 
parking that has been lost in the campus core with garages on the perimeter,” he said. “Now we 
ﬁ  nd we look back to the campus 
core and provide parking to sup-port that area.”
Transportation and Parking 
Services is working on design-ing and getting funding for the garage, he said. It will also de-termine what decals the garage will cover.
Ben Ankus, a UF biology ju-
nior, said he is excited to have parking near Marston.
“It’s great because it will be 
next to one of the two (main) li-braries on campus,” the 20-year-old said. “It’s a good thing.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 112 MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
Sloan, Gators bounced back in win
Florida beat Kentucky on Friday, pg. 16
UF, Gainesville remember UF professor 
The UF professor was a neurosurgeon, pg. 3
‘Yes Means Yes’ seminar to start
A free ﬁ  ve-week seminar that discuses sex 
and consent in relationships, pg. 5Check us out online
Follow us on Facebook, Instagram @thealligator_ and Twitter @thealligator
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
LUNAR NEW YEAR
Members of Cuong Nhu Oriental Martial Arts performed onstage during T êt, the Vietnamese 
Lunar New Year Celebration in the Reitz Grand Ballroom on Sunday evening. See pgs 8-9 for the photo gallery of the event.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
You could be able to drink beer 
at UF men’s basketball and foot-ball if you’re willing to spend more than $1,500.  
On April 1, UF’s Board of Trust-
ees will vote to decide whether beer and wine sales will expand to premium seat ticket holders in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center and the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
At the stadium, there are a total 
of 4,963 premium seats, which are $330 per season, wrote Steve Mc-Clain, the senior associate athletic director, in an email. But ticketh-
olders must also have contributed 
$2,250 to Gator Booster Inc., the fundraising group of the University Athletic Association.
In the O’Connell Center, a to-
tal of 668 premium seats require contributions ranging from $1,500 to $12,500. Ticket prices for the 2016-17 season have not been an-
nounced as of press time.
The UAA and Business Affairs 
proposed expanding beer and wine 
sales to premium seat sections, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote 
in an email.
“If approved, the University 
Athletic Association will offer that 
as an additional amenity for those premium ticket-holders,” she said.
The change comes with the 
new renovation of the O’Connell Center, which will include catered food service, private restrooms and direct views to the court, among other amenities.
The sales will start at the third 
quarter of football games and at the Alcohol may be sold at Gator gamesCAMPUS
 McCarty lot could 
become garage
SEE BEER,  PAGE 4
It’s only for premium seats
“If approved, the University 
Athletic Association will ofer 
that as an additional amenity 
for those premium ticket-
holders.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Curator talks feature libraries’ 
special collections
Issues in preserving the unique landscape and literature of the state of Florida are documented in 
historical collections at UF. Today 
at noon in Smathers Library East, Room 100, Carol McAuliffe re-veals the ways the Map & Imagery Library’s vast holdings of aerial maps and other resources have become vital to the study of heri-tage landscapes, informing urban renewal initiatives and helping re-
searchers understand landforms 
over time. In addition, Florence Turcotte will relate a tragic ac-count of what befell author Zora Neale Hurston’s papers after her death in 1960, after years of strug-gling against sexism and racism in the Jim-Crow South. John Freund details the conservation treatment 
given to the Hurston papers, al-
lowing those that survived by the narrowest of margins to be made available to future generations of researchers.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the 
Entomology Building, situated at 
970 Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details, go to talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. “The mission of Toastmasters is 
to provide a supportive and posi-
tive learning experience in which members are empowered to de-velop communication and lead-ership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
Florida Museum of Natural 
History hosts “Can You Dig It?” on March 12Discover the earth at your feet during this free, fun-for-all-ages geology event. Enjoy hands-on ac-tivities from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and watch demonstrations of volcanic eruptions. Presented in part by the UF Department of Geological 
Sciences. For more information, 
visit flmnh.ufl.edu/canyoudigit or call 352-273-2064.
Apply Now for 2016-17 Financial 
AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as 
early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to en-sure that the federal processor has time to analyze and send the re-sults of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis so apply as early as 
possible to be considered for the 
most and best aid. In order for UF Student Financial Affairs to con-sider you for a financial aid pack-age, you must be an admitted stu-dent and have met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/
contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 112
HIGH  77° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Albert L. Rhoton Jr. was a man of God.
The internationally renowned neurosurgeon 
is credited with building up UF Health Shands Hospital’s neurosurgery department. He attend-ed the First Lutheran Church in Gainesville for 
44 years.
On Feb. 27,  neurosurgeons from around the 
world, including Japan, Australia and Turkey, 
attended a celebration of Rhoton’s life at the church. He died Feb. 21 from metastatic can-cer. He was 83.
“He would say regularly that everything he 
did was for the glory of God,” said Eric Rhoton, 56, his son.
      
Albert Rhoton was born in a log cabin in ru-
ral Kentucky, Eric said. Growing up, he would wake up with snow on his blankets that ﬁ  ltered in from the holes in the walls. 
He attended a two-room school and was 
the ﬁ  rst in his family to go to college, Eric said. While at a summer camp for disadvantaged boys, the dean of Washington University’s School of Medicine saw potential in Rhoton. He graduated from the school in 1959.
In 1972, Rhoton came to UF Health as a professor of surgery and chief of the Division of Neurological Surgery. His two sons and two daughters attended UF’s College of Medicine.
At home, Eric Rhoton said his sisters would 
call their 6-foot-2 father “The Gentle Giant” for his kind demeanor. Eric said his father was an inspiration.
“The main message at home was to ﬁ  nd a 
passion for something and then to work your hardest,” he said.
      Weeks before he died, he would ask his 
wife, Joyce, to drop him off at his microsurgery lab at UF Health. He retired 10 years ago, his son said.
“He was doing chemotherapy that would 
wipe him out — he could barely walk — but he still wanted to go in,” Eric said.
His dad ran almost every day to stay healthy 
and would challenge his colleagues and friends to push-up contests to prove he wasn’t old.
“His body was really weak in the end, but 
his mind was still clear,” he said. “His last words were, ‘Let me go.’”
      
His father got the most joy from teaching 
others, his son said.
He traveled the world, spreading his knowl-
edge of neurosurgery from shacks in Nicaragua to courses in Israel, where he was transported 
by a convoy of armed vehicles, he said.
Alice Rhoton-Vlasak said her father was 
grateful to help the UF Health Department of 
Neurosurgery become what it is today.
“He did feel like it was all a blessing that he 
had some God that allowed him to have the life he had,” the 52-year-old said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org   UF, Gainesville remember neurosurgeon, UF professor
From left: Alice Rhoton-Vlasak, Joyce Rhoton, Albert L. Rhoton Jr., 
Albert Rhoton, Eric Rhoton and Laurel Rhoton-Selner pose for a photo at Mohonk Mountain House resort in New Paltz, New York.
 Courtesy to the Alligatorstart of the second half of men’s 
basketball games. 
It isn’t the first time alcohol 
would be allowed at UF sporting events. Currently, suite holders in the stadium can drink beer and wine with some restrictions.
The ban on alcoholic beverage 
sales stems from the SEC alcohol policy, which states: “No alco-holic beverages shall be sold or dispensed for public consumption anywhere in the facility, and the possession and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages in the public areas of the facility shall be prohib-ited.”
Clay Griffis, 22, said he read 
about the new expansion of beer and wine sales, but wasn’t sure who would be able to take advan-tage of it. He hasn’t missed a home football game while at UF.
Once he realized it was only for 
premium seat ticketholders, the UF mechanical engineering senior said he doesn’t think students will see much of a difference.“I don’t think it’ll affect me as 
a student,” he said. “I just don’t think I’ll notice.”
But he said he thinks the pro-
posal will bring in bigger crowds and more revenue.“I honestly don’t think it’s gon-
na be a big deal for students,” he said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
The University Athletic Association and Business Affairs proposed expanding beer and wine sales to premium seat sections at the Ste-phen C. O’Connell Center and the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. On April 1, the UF Board of Trustees will vote to decide whether to allow alcoholic beverages to be sold.
BEER,  from pg 1The Board of Trustees votes April 1‘CHAMP D’AVOINE’ WILL 
BE ON DISPLAY.
By Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art will 
celebrate the return of its Claude Monet 
painting Thursday night.
The museum will hold “Discover Eu-
rope” as part of its bimonthly Museum 
Nights at 6 p.m. 
The event will allow guests to see the 
“Champ d’avoine” (Oat Field), which the 
Harn loaned to the “Monet and American 
Impressionism” tour in May 2015 for eight 
months.
Michael A. Singer gave the painting to 
the museum as a gift in 1999.
The tour was organized by the Harn, 
Hunter Museum of American Art in Chat-
tanooga, Tennessee, and the Telfair Mu-
seums in Savannah, Georgia, said Tami Wroath, the director of marketing and pub-lic relations for the Harn. Each museum 
displayed about 50 paintings and 20 prints 
in the exhibit for about three months.The tour was free to make because each 
museum donated paintings and prints, she said.
Wroath said she’s glad to celebrate the 
return of the Monet on Thursday. Visitors often ask to see the painting, she said.
The event will feature classical music, 
Greek dancing, a photo booth with a back-ground of Europe and European “Jeopar-dy,” where guests will answer trivia about 
European art, culture and history.
“It’s a perfect time to enjoy the Euro-
pean theme and rediscover the Monet back 
on display,” she said.
Mark Werner, a Gainesville resident and 
art enthusiast, said the Monet is one of the greatest works at the museum.
“It’s a rich painting with a masterful 
command of color and breathtaking shad-
ows,” Werner said.The Harn celebrates return of Monet during Museum Nights
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is Claude Monet’s “Champ d’avoine” (Oat Field), which will be put back on 
display at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Thursday night.
By Karla Arboleda
Alligator Contributing Writer
Butler Enterprises recently an-
nounced the addition of a Mar-
shalls and an Ashley HomeStore to its ongoing developments.
The 1.8 million square-foot 
expansion includes more than a dozen new businesses, according to a press release.
Along with the two recently an-
nounced stores, a Dick’s Sporting 
Goods, Wal-Mart Supercenter and 
Sam’s Club will open before Fall, Cory Presnick, the chief financial officer of Butler Enterprises, said.
“I think we’ll have 80 to 90 per-
cent of the folks open by the end of August when school is really coming back in full,” he said.
Between April and June, But-
ler Plaza will have a new Jimmy John’s, Orangetheory Fitness, Eye-glass Express and Brown Salon, according to the release.
As new businesses arise, others 
will fall, Presnick said.
He said the current Wal-Mart 
and Lowe’s will eventually be de-molished, and a town center will take their place.
Gainesville resident Jackie Vo 
said she believes the renovations will prove to be more frustrating than convenient.
“I feel like it’ll just be more 
congested over here,” Vo said.
In response to the community’s 
concerns, Presnick said Butler En-
terprises built several roads, form-
ing a grid and allowing visitors to avoid 34th Street and Archer Road.
Aside from traffic, Vo said 
northwest Gainesville, where she will soon move, is being neglect-ed.
“That would be nice if they had something like Trader Joe’s on that side of town,” she said.
A Florida Credit Union, Lee 
Nails, Cricket Wireless, Jersey Mike’s Subs and Sports Clips are also scheduled to open in the Fall, 
according to the release.
Presnick said the project will 
create thousands of permanent re-
tail and service jobs.
“Whether it’s retail jobs, ser-
vice jobs and really just keeping that economic activity here,” he said.Butler Plaza update: 1.8 million square feet, traffic concerns
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville 
woman early Sunday morning af-ter they said she drove drunk and on the wrong side of Interstate 75 with her 11-month-old child in the 
car.
At about 3 a.m., Melinda Maria 
Bradley, 34, drove southbound on 
a northbound lane of the highway, according to the report.
When police found her near 
mile marker 383, Bradley stopped on the side of the road, according to the report.
Police smelled alcohol on Brad-
ley, who had slurred speech and droopy eyes, according to the re-port.
As Bradley struggled to stand, 
police conducted field-sobriety exercises, according to the report. Bradley was arrested for driving under the influence after she failed 
the tests.Police then noticed the child, 
who is just under a year old, sit-
ting in the backseat of Bradley’s black Mazda, according to the re-port. The child was not injured.
Bradley could not be reached 
for comment 
as of press 
time.
Police add-
ed a charge of child neglect without great bodily harm to Bradley’s first offense.
A breathalyzer test showed 
Bradley’s blood-alcohol levels were .202 and .193, according to the report.
Authorities took her to the Ala-
chua County Jail where she was released Sunday on a $35,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgWoman arrested for 
DUI with child in car
Bradley
Most stores will open by Fall
“It’s a rich painting with a masterful 
command of color and breathtaking 
shadows.”
Mark Werner
Gainesville resident and art enthusiast
CRIMEMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A GAME AFTER CLASS
Christofer Caballeros, an 18-year-old UF physics freshman, scores a goal 
against his longtime friend Liam Conville, an 18-year-old UF aerospace engi-neering freshman, on Norman Field on Sunday. Conville said he spent Spring Break at home in Palm Coast, Florida.
By Catalina Ruiz
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will hold its bi-annual sexu-
ality seminar at an earlier time this 
year.
“Yes Means Yes,” a free ﬁ  ve-
week seminar that discusses sex and consent in students’ relation-
ships, will be held at noon instead of during evenings so more students 
can attend, said Carolyn Cesarotti, a founder and student facilitator of 
the seminar. Cesarotti helped create 
the seminar, which starts Wednes-day, after four attempted assaults were reported on campus in Fall 
2014.
“In Spring semester there are a 
ton of programs in the evenings, so we kind of decided we were going 
to try this instead,” she said.  
Cesarotti said the seminar aims 
to get students talking about sexual-ity in a positive and open way. Up to 35 students can register.
Each Wednesday, students will 
discuss a different topic, said Mad-eleine Hill, a student facilitator.
Different professors and commu-nity members will lead the discus-sion each week, said Rita Lawrence, the interpersonal violence preven-
tion coordinator at GatorWell.
Sergio Brenes, who participated 
in Spring 2015, said the seminar al-
lows students to ask any question 
without judgment.
“‘Yes Means Yes’ for me was the 
deﬁ  nition of a safe space,” the UF history junior said. “No question 
was going to be ‘yucked.’”
The seminar made him feel more 
comfortable with his body, the 21-year-old said.
“The only thing I did not like 
was in my session we talked about 
straight sex most of the time; we 
never talked about queer sex,” Brenes said.  ‘Yes Means Yes’ seminar to discuss consensual sexTHE CENTER IS RAISING 
MONEY FOR THE PROJECT.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Career Resource Center will begin its 
expansion this year.
The CRC will expand at least 7,000 square 
feet, said Heather White, the CRC’s director. 
New conference rooms, interviewing space 
and staff ofﬁ  ces will be added, she said. Con-
struction should begin within the next year and be completed between nine months and a year, she said.
White said the CRC began raising the $7 
million to $7.5 million needed for construc-tion about four years ago. The cost of building the expansion has increased $2.5 million since then. She said UF’s Board of Trustees will vote 
in March on whether to give the CRC the ad-
ditional money.White said Florida’s Capital Improvement 
Trust Fund provided $5.2 million in 2014. The Fund uses tuition fees to pay for non-academic buildings.
She said the CRC is expanding due to a 
high demand for services.
“We are at capacity right now,” White said. 
“We’re trying to forecast and project into the 
future, making sure we have enough space.”
Jamielee Huther, a UF economics and in-
formation systems junior, said the CRC should 
expand so more students can get help with re-sumes and interviews. 
Huther, who has seen peer mentors for 
help with resumes at the Heavener School of Business, said students in other colleges should have more options, like the CRC.
“If you can have more than one place to go 
with different perspectives you’re just going to grow more,” the 20-year-old said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org CRC to expand, add interview 
rooms and staﬀ   oﬃ   cesThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Delegates, 
superdelegates 
have you like, ‘huh?’
The 2016 election is everywhere and spreading fast — 
faster than Zika or even Kendrick Lamar’s new, surprise album “Untitled Unmastered.” It’s there on your news feed when you go to bed and is provided to you by your local newspaper — hey, what’s up? — when you wake 
up. From every which way, it’s an adrenaline shot of nothing but primaries, caucuses, debates and He Who Must Not Be Named.
In spite of the coverage, however, not all questions are neces-
sarily answered, such as, “What’s up with this delegate system?” For all those who nod in reluctant agreement at your “politically versed” roommate or zone out whenever Wolf Blitzer describes delegate appropriations (or anything, really), we at the Alligator have your back.
Think of the delegate system as a long series of middlemen. 
When you vote or your state’s caucus casts support toward a candidate, that support goes not directly to the candidate, but to a delegate: party activists, local political leaders and the like. These delegates are usually attributed to a candidate on a pro-portional basis. So, say Kanye West in 2020 won about one third of a state’s primary, he would win one third of the delegates. Lo-cal delegates then convene to elect state delegates, who will then actually cast votes at the July conventions. Complicated? It gets worse, because delegate systems vary between political parties 
and even between states.
In the Republican delegate system, the thing to watch out 
for is the winner-takes-all status of certain states. In this set-
up, a candidate must simply pass a certain threshold of voters within a state to assume 100 percent of the state’s delegates. Winner-takes-all states include Florida and Ohio, which is why you heard former GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney call out to voters last week, encouraging them to vote for Rubio in Florida and Kasich in Ohio in order to snatch winner-takes-all 
victories from the orangutan frontrunner. (See Michael Beato’s 
column for more!)
For Democrats, the factor of caution is superdelegates. While 
delegates are allocated in relation to people’s votes, superdel-egates are “unpledged,” meaning they can swing allegiance be-tween Hillary and Bernie up until the July convention, and their job is to support the Democratic National Committee.
What’s the purpose of the superdelegate system? Well, let’s 
hear it from DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz herself, who 
told CNN, “Unpledged delegates exist really to make sure that 
party leaders and elected ofﬁ  cials don’t have to be in a position where they are running against grassroots activists.” We at the Alligator ﬁ  nd it ironic that the Democratic Party hosts such an undemocratic system.
But let’s keep in mind that superdelegate allegiance, while 
currently skewed toward Hillary, is ﬁ  rst and foremost to the Democratic Party. Back in 2008, Obama initially fell behind Hill-ary in superdelegates as well, but with enough Obama voter 
support, superdelegates eventually pledged to Obama; the same 
could prove true for Bernie in July.
What’s the solution to this bureaucratic chaos? Get out there 
and vote. Florida primary polls close March 15, just eight days away. So whether you’re Democrat or Republican, independent or non-afﬁ  liated, Team Edward or Jacob, Marvel or DC, make your voice heard — on the ballot, not just Facebook. The stron-ger our voter turnout is, the closer the delegate systems must bend towards popular desire. Otherwise, we relinquish our dem-
ocratic authority.As Trump rolls on, Republican adults show up
Watching the debates at this stage in 
the presidential primaries is a mas-ochistic endeavor. The spectacles of both parties are simply unbearable.
On the Democratic side, I’m grow-
ing tired of Hillary and Bernie outlining their plans to raise taxes and bankrupt the country, all under the ruse of offering “free” services and entitlements.
The GOP debate last Thursday made me 
want to take a shower. I felt dirty. I’m sickened that the party of Lincoln, Reagan and H.W. Bush is now be-ing degraded to what took place last week. Instead of argu-ing policies and ideas, the media and roaring Detroit crowd 
yukked up Trump’s hand and another anatomical part’s 
size, thus giving “The Donald” a whole new meaning. A serious candidate seeking the presidency should never utter the petty attacks and third-grader-like put-downs featured in that debate.
As a man of the right, I’m deeply saddened for my party. 
How can Republicans seriously think we’re going to win the presidency and hold the Senate? If the general election were held today, the presumptive top of our presidential 
ticket would be poisonous, which is surprising: How can 
we nominate a pro-choice, big-government, foul-mouthed, crony-capitalistic con artist? He is truly the GOP’s antithesis.
That being said, I am heartened by the grown-ups in the 
GOP taking a stand against Trumpism.
Leaders like House Speaker Paul Ryan, a true conser-
vative and GOP standard bearer, said this last week: “If a person wants to be the nominee of the Republican Party, there can be no evasion and no games: They must reject 
any group or cause that is built on bigotry... We believe 
all people are created equal in the eyes of God and of our country. This is fundamental. And if someone wants to be our nominee, they must understand this. I hope this is the last time I need to speak out on this.” Responsible. Reason-able. Adult. Republican.
Mitt Romney, a former Republican presidential nomi-
nee, also took a stand. Unfortunately, he is by far the worst person to go after Trump, but his words carry weight and are thoughtful: “Think of Donald Trump’s personal qualities. The bullying. The greed. The showing off. The misogyny. The ab-surd third-grade theatrics.” He added, “Watch, 
by the way, how he responds to my speech to-
day. Will he talk about our policy differences? Or will he attack me with every imaginable low-blow insult?” Well-measured. Adult. Republi-can.
Rising-star Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse pro-
moted classical conservatism during the Conservative Po-litical Action Conference — a man after my own heart. “I am anti-establishment, but what we need most of all is not 
just someone who wants to breathe ﬁ  re on Washington, 
but wants to breathe passion into our children for a con-stitutional recovery,” he said. “Because that’s how we will actually make America great again.”
He used his platform to declare: “Our founders were 
making a claim about human dignity. Our founders were saying that everybody, everywhere — not just people like us who have been blessed to be born in this place — but ev-erybody, everywhere is ordained with natural rights. That 
everyone, everywhere is created in the image of God, with 
natural rights and government is just our shared project to secure those rights. Government is not the author or the source of any of our rights.”
None of these men used phallic or sexual imagery or 
made fun of a woman, a war hero or an individual with a disability. Remarkable. I’m impressed with their self-con-trol. They all sound like the ideal Republican president.
Doomsdayers say the GOP is destined for 1,000 years 
of darkness with the inevitable nomination of Trump. I’m more optimistic. Looking at Ryan, Romney and Sasse, I think the GOP has a lot to look forward to. These three bring ideas, policy and a conservative temperament to a wanting nation. During the next few years, I think the party will be in good hands. No measurement needed.
Michael Beato is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Mondays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Donald Trump started his 
campaign being viewed as a joke. No one 
thought a businessman 
with no governing expe-
rience would ever get this close to winning the nomination. 
Now, it’s no longer improbable 
that he will win the nomination. When it comes to delegates, Trump is clearly in the lead after bringing in about 250 delegates on Super Tuesday. 
If he wins the nomination, he has a strong 
possibility of becoming president. It’s time to consider what type of president he might be.
Many argue the U.S. needs to be run 
more like a business. However, if Trump runs the U.S. anything like he runs his businesses, it will be run into the ground. Trump may seem like a successful busi-
nessman when it comes to real estate, but 
according to Ana Swanson of The Wash-ington Post, “forays into casinos, airlines, professional football and other industries 
have ended badly.” Trump has shown he 
is a one-trick pony — it’s unlikely his real-estate success will translate into a presi-dency, just as it hasn’t translated into a successful steak business. While making 
a lot of money is one measure of suc-
cess, Trump didn’t start at the bottom. It’s strange how he attempts to relate to the everyday American when he has made 
more money than most Americans will 
ever make in their lifetimes. Paying off student loans or struggling to make ends meet is a foreign concept to him — much in contrast to President Obama, who paid 
off his student loans just 12 years ago.
Many of Trump’s supporters are drawn 
to the fact that he does not censor him-
self, but speaking your mind does not 
necessarily make you a good president. 
With Trump’s inconsistent stances on important issues, it’s impossible to know whether he’s saying what he re-ally thinks or just pandering to what the people want to hear. 
Who knows what he will do 
once in ofﬁ  ce?
The best example of Trump’s 
unethical business practices is 
Trump University. As a for-prof-
it institution, it had little inter-est in providing an education. 
Calling it a university was misleading, as Emma Brown wrote for The Washington 
Post. It was actually just a series of real-
estate workshops held in hotel ballrooms. Those who paid for it did not receive what they expected. Trump has gone out of his 
way to deceive people with his business 
practices: Why would a Trump presidency be any different? While the president’s salary may not be the most attractive as-pect of the job for Trump, there’s no ques-
tion that once in the position, Trump can 
change things in his favor and increase his already substantial fortune.
PolitiFact has even awarded Trump’s 
lies the 2015 Lie of the Year. He made sev-eral inaccurate statements that served to fuel racism, from claiming Mexico sends over all the criminals to downplaying the number of whites killed by whites. 
These lies have real consequences and 
ignite hysteria. While a candidate can’t fact-check everything he or she says, the number of lies PolitiFact has caught is just 
embarrassing.
Whether it’s the lies or a simple lack 
of skills, Trump has shown how his 
presidency would create an America that wouldn’t be great. Being an outsider is not 
always a good thing — it can show a lack 
of competency and a track record of not being able to adapt to working outside of real estate.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-days.Trump as president would be a disasterColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org“T                   his perfect recycling 
tended to present it-self, in the narcosis of the event, as a model for the rest: like Ameri-
can political life itself, and like the printed and transmitted images on which that life depended, this was a world with no half-life.” —Joan Didion, “Political Fictions”
I rang in the New Year at a bar 
next to a 7-Eleven. It’s the bar where Publix grocery managers drink beers standing up and tell the leather-skinned bartender that they’re 
“OK.” These men wear straps on their sun-
glasses. They peel bumper stickers onto their Dodge vehicles, step back and say, I imagine, “Yep.” At heel, they drank Budweiser and stared at Fox News’ New Year, stubble bathed by the bluish glow of the Trumps. They’re dreamers, dreaming of a great America that never was. So are Rubio supporters, dreaming of a new American century in the ashes of the 
last one. All the while, Cruz supporters dream 
of a Texas-turned-holy land, and Kasich sup-porters dream of a Kasich nomination.
Dreams can be the fuel of progress or the 
fuel of destruction. With the news reduced to the screen of an iPhone and the informative media lost in the quicksands of social me-dia, the political climate is so pervasive as to lose all meaning. Naive as lambs before the 
slaughter, we speak of candidates as if we 
know them: We “love,” we “hate,” we’ve “got a feeling.”
And you can’t ﬁ  ght feelings with facts. We 
live in the mythical time of the story. We live in the post-Obama apocalypse, blinded by a bonﬁ  re of practicalities. The personal is politi-cal, and the political is personal — disastrous-ly so. This election is not about strategy. In the 
10th Republican debate, Wolf Blitzer begged, 
“I want to move on, these are the rules. We’re moving on… I want to talk about ISIS right now,” as Trump, Rubio and Cruz screamed over each other. Who cares about ISIS? This election is about dazzling images: Trump’s penis, Rubio’s boots and Cruz’s creepiness.
It is not surprising that Trump is racist and 
sexist. Trump hates women and foreigners; so does the GOP. Trump ﬂ  aunts his penis and hot wife; George W. Bush played cowboy all the way into Iraq. What is surprising is Trump's openness about it and 
how Americans lap it up, don for-
eign-made “Make America Great Again” caps and wander into the ﬂ  ames of tomorrow.
Poke Trump and he deﬂ  ates; 
same goes for Rubio. In the apo-
theosis of the image, his handsome face is a black hole that absorbs all meaning. Rubio is the banality of evil, the robotic inevitability of 
the reactionary right. Rubio, our sexy, young 
Gator-candidate, the supposed mainstream candidate, is against abortion even in cases of rape and incest. He has said the U.S. does not need a federal Department of Education, nor does he believe the Federal Reserve should have a monetary policy.
And what to say about Ted Cruz? That for 
millennials obsessed with going all the way 
and adults obsessed with authenticity, per-
haps he’s the right candidate: ready to shut down the government rather than give an inch. Apocalyptic, passionate and staunchly against the separation of church and state — this is what passes for an establishment can-didate in 2016.
Yet we progressives aren’t innocent. My 
Facebook news feed is a snake pit of anti-
Hillary propaganda. It is a national, bipartisan 
obsession to crucify our most prominent fe-male politician. It is a spine-chilling pastime that reaches beyond the clarity of facts into the obscurity of the human soul. It’s not that anti-Hillary Facebookers disagree with her; it’s that they hate her.
Personality plagues our politics. Keep 
in mind: We’re electing a president, not a 
spouse. This isn’t about smiles, or boots or 
even a frivolous, media-controlled idea of trust. We must accept a politics of compro-mise — call it impurity, call it dirtiness — if we are not to splinter into devil’s blue and devil’s red.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and 
Spanish senior. Her column appear on Mon-days.Faux-personalism breeds a new populismColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
ABOVE: 
The Vietnamese Student 
Organization hosted T et, its 43rd annual Lunar New Year celebration, on Sunday. The theme of the event, which took place in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, was “A New Age. ” It included games and chances to win raffle tickets before the show and during intermission, as well as performances by singers, dancers and martial artists. 
RIGHT:
Michael Nguyen attempts to pin the tail on the monkey, the Vietnamese New Year’s symbol, with his eyes closed during the VSO’s Lunar New Year celebration. The 21-year-old microbiology and cell science senior said he liked the matching words game more, in which participants had to match cards with words in English with their Vietnamese counterparts.
Ringing in the Year of the Monkey
Emma Green / Alligator StaffEmma Green / Alligator StaffLEFT: 
Alyssa Zakala, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, sings during the T et celebration put on by the Vietnamese Student Organization on Sunday night in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The biggest holiday in Vietnam, T et celebrates the arrival of spring and the commencement of a new year in the lunar calendar.
BELOW: 
Couples wearing suit and tie and traditional dresses, called ao dais, in VSO’s fashion show during the Lunar New Year celebration, T et, walked down the runway in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom before striking a pose or doing a short routine. Proceeds and donations from the event benefitted Kids Without Borders.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Two-year-old Zion Le and 4-year-old Heidi Le pose for a picture with a monkey king, referencing the zodiac animal of the year, the monkey. LEFT: 
A member of UF’s Chinese yo-yo group, Vertax, spins a glowing diabolo during the group’s performance in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffEmma Green / Alligator StaffBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
2bd/2bth townhouse, SW Gainesville, Haile Plantation, cheerful and artistic, furnished, beds, sheets, TV, DVD, washer/dryer, fully equipped kitchen, small front garden, back porch, high ceiling, next to town center, na-ture trails, bike paths, quiet, utilities and in-ternet included, $400/wk + security deposit. No pets. Call 352-256-1211.    3-9-16-5-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
1/1 Apt. 669/mo. Walking distance to UF. 
Pets ok. Has pool and laundry room. Call 352-213-9780 or 352-575-4889    3-8-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Fuji Bike, Model Spotif, 54", Black, Gatorskin 700x28 tires, helmet- NEVER USED- $500-Call 352-332-5054    3-8-16-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-11-16-5-14
Help Wanted Sales AssistantNeed ambitious, presentable, and well orga-nized person for growing business. Automobile and customer service experience a plus. Send apps/questions to jobs@tomlinsonmotorco.com     3-11-16-5-14
ACROSS
1 Garbage
6 Ziploc bag
feature
10 Catcher’s glove
14 “Slumdog
Millionaire”
country
15 Electrically
flexible
16 Not-so-nice smell
17 C-E-G triad, e.g.19 Bandleader
Arnaz
20 Certain
Himalayan
21 __ Corps22 High dudgeon25 20th-century
Greek-Americansoprano
27 Singer Etheridge29 Little fruit pie30 Prayer ender
31 Commercial
suffix with Sun
and Star
32 __ Angeles35 Asian language
spoken by nearlya billion people
40 Place for a mani-
pedi
41 Trent of politics42 Make a soufflé
43 Accompanied by
44 “Get lost!”47 Aladdin’s
transport
51 FDR agency52 Make up (for)53 Orange veggie55 Allow to borrow56 Rochester
medical center
60 Starbucks tea
brand
61 Unknown author:
Abbr.
62 Toastmaster, and
a homophonichint to thispuzzle’s fivelongest answers
63 Load in a hold64 Nine-digit IDs65 Uncool group
DOWN
1 Buzz Lightyear
voice actor __Allen
2 Genetic material3 Wd. modifying a
noun4 Priory of __: “The
Da Vinci Code”
conspirators
5 Women-only
residences
6 Nearly one-third
of Africa
7 Often harmful
bacteria
8 Sea between
Italy and Albania
9 Calculator image,
for short
10 Ford made only
in black from1914-1925
11 Perfect12 Puccini opera13 Makes an effort18 IRS pros21 Trilogy’s first
section
22 Mosque leaders23 Chart anew24 Kagan of the
Supreme Court
26 Bills and coins28 Not Rep. or Dem.31 Only chess piece
that can jumpothers: Abbr.
32 Hear (of)33 Schindler of
“Schindler’s List”
34 “Ta-ta”36 “Through the
Looking-Glass”
girl
37 Univ. military org.38 Cornell University
townies
39 “The Blacklist”
network
43 Place for a pane
44 Cooks’ splatter
protectors
45 Sable automaker,
briefly
46 Pilfered47 Fountain treats48 Really got to49 Purple-blue
Muppet with ahooked nose
50 Silky synthetic
54 “Person of the
Year” magazine
56 Bell and Barker
57 ATM maker58 Mil. roadside
hazard
59 These, in 
France
By David Poole©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/07/1603/07/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, March 7, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shits available, 1-9 p.m., 
Mon - Fri, Weekend hours vary. 15-20 hrs per 
week. Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    
3-11-16-5-14
Mature responsible adult with education, mu-
sic, or art orientation for day learning com-panion for teen. Own car and references. Email jdcschool@yahoo.com    3-11-16-5-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"M & C Army Surplus is hiring. 25 + hours per 
week. Firearm + Retail Exp. Required. Apply in Person to 626 NW 13th St    3-7-16-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. Who was the last Padres starting 
pitcher before James Shields in 2015 
to win his first seven decisions of a season?
2. During the 1970s, two N.L. play-
ers had a season of at least 30 home runs and at least 30 errors. Name either one.
3. Who holds the Big Ten record for 
most passing touchdowns in a season?
4. When was the last time the Wash-
ington Wizards franchise won at least 
50 games in a season?
5. Ben Bishop set a record in the 
2015-16 NHL season for most career 
wins by a Tampa Bay Lightning goal-
tender. Who had held the mark?
6. Who was the first American male 
skier to win an Olympic downhill 
gold medal?
7. In 2015, Inbee Park became the 
seventh female golfer to win four dif-ferent majors. Name four of the first six.
Answers
1. Andy Hawkins went 11-0 to start 
1985. 
2. Cincinnati’s Tony Perez (1970) 
and Atlanta’s Davey Johnson (1973).
3. Purdue’s Drew Brees, who had 39 
TD passes in 1998.
4. It was the 1978-79 season, when 
Washington was 54-28.
5. Nikolai Khabibulin, with 83 vic-
tories.
6. Bill Johnson, in 1984.7. Louise Suggs, Mickey Wright, 
Pat Bradley, Juli Inkster, Karrie Webb and Annika Sorenstam.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 7, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
 19 ConnectionsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The No. 3 Florida lacrosse team 
defeated No. 8 Stony Brook on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida men's golf to compete in tourney
No. 2 Florida will face off against 14 other teams, eight of which are ranked 
in the top 20, at the Southern Highlands Collegiate tournament beginning today. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.By Luis T orres 
Sports Writer
With JJ Schwarz up to bat in 
the bottom of the fifth on Sunday, 
Dartmouth drew its infield in with 
Buddy Reed at third base and the 
game tied at three.
Reed had just hit a game-tying 
two-run triple, knocking starting 
pitcher Clay Chatham out of the 
game and forcing the Big Green to bring Chris Burkholder in to face Schwarz. Burkholder got Schwarz to hit a groundball to shortstop 
Thomas Roulis with the intention of 
throwing Reed out at home.
However, the ball went under 
Roulis’ glove, allowing Reed to 
score and giving the Gators a 4-3 
lead. UF added four more runs as No. 1 Florida defeated Dartmouth 8-6, completing the series sweep.
"It was a contact play, so right 
when he made contact I was run-ning," Reed said. "The infielder missed it so I somewhat hesitated just because I probably would’ve 
gotten in a rundown. "Obviously it 
went into the outfield so I’m scoring 
regardless."
One inning earlier, Schwarz got 
things going for Florida as well. Af-
ter Dartmouth (0-6) jumped out to a 3-0 lead on starter Alex Faedo, Schwarz crushed his third home run of the season in the bottom half of the fourth to cut the Big Green’s 
lead to 3-1."JJ’s home run, I think that 
kind of got us going offensively," 
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. "I thought you could kind of feel 
swings were getting slower and slower and bigger and bigger and 
guys were pressing a little bit. I think that one swing took the pres-sure off a little bit."
Schwarz’s home run also gave Faedo the reassurance that his team could score. The sophomore pitcher didn’t have his best stuff. After al-
lowing just one earned run in his 
first two starts, the sophomore right hander allowed three earned runs.
"They jumped out on a really 
good pitcher (with) three runs," O’Sullivan said. "It’s amazing to me how guys can come out of the gym and put good swings on fastballs that are 92, 93, 94. … I tip my cap. 
They battled and they were tough to 
put away today."
While he wasn’t as consistent 
and as dominant as he was in his 
first two starts of the season, Faedo 
settled down and tossed five in-nings. He struck out four and picked up his third win of the season, tying him with Logan Shore for the team 
lead.
"Even though he got hit a little 
bit and he wasn’t locating (his 
pitches) as good, he still fought and 
that’s all you can ask for," UF catch-
er Mike Rivera said. "He never gave up and ate up innings and that’s what we need for him. That shows you a little bit of who he is. He’s a 
competitor."
Dartmouth had its chance to 
close the gap against Florida (12-1). Florida sweeps weekend series against Dartmouth BASEBALL
UF WILL NEED TO MAKE 
A DEEP RUN IN THE SEC 
TOURNAMENT TO EARN AN 
NCAA TOURNAMENT BID.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Florida’s chances at winning a Southeast-
ern Conference matchup this season have 
been about as good as that of a coin flip — 50-50.
Now, taking a .500 conference record into 
the SEC Tournament on Thursday as a No. 8 seed against ninth-seeded Arkansas, Florida will look to turn its fortunes around.
After its loss to Kentucky last Tuesday, 
Florida needed to win its last regular-season game against Missouri on Saturday to have any chance of keeping its at-large NCAA Tour-nament bid hopes alive.
The Gators defeated the Tigers 82-72 to 
snap their four-game losing streak, but with an eighth place standing in the conference, 
Florida still has a slim chance of making the NCAA Tournament.
Florida would have to advance far against 
the SEC’s top teams this weekend — a group 
that UF has had almost no success against his season.
Against No. 1 seed Texas A&M, No. 2 seed 
Kentucky, No. 3 seed South Carolina, No. 4 seed LSU and No. 5 seed Vanderbilt, the Gators own a 1-7 record.
“We were in a great position three weeks 
ago, and now not so much,” coach Mike 
White said after UF's win over Missouri on 
Saturday. “Our guys have had opportunities to fold. We’ve had a couple pretty average practices. We’ve shown signs of being men-
tally weak.”
Before their four-game skid began on Feb. 
20, the Gators were projected as high as an 
eight seed in the NCAA Tournament.
Now, to even qualify for the tournament, 
they will have to string together a series of impressive wins in the postseason, beginning with Arkansas.
“Going into it, we definitely feel a lot bet-Gators prepping for SEC tourneySEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
Pitching and defense have been Florida’s 
greatest strengths in 2016, and Sunday was no 
exception.
No. 1 Florida continued its season-long 
dominance by defeating Illinois State (6-14) 
11-1 in six innings followed by a 4-1 win 
against Florida A&M (5-11) at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. The Gators moved to 22-0 on the season, tied for the third-best start in school history.
"This weekend was a good opportunity 
to play at home, in truly our first real homes-tand of the season," coach Tim Walton said. "It was a chance to get a lot of players some 
action and good looks in different situations."
Illinois State started the scoring on the day 
by plating a runner in the bottom of the first 
to take a quick 1-0 lead in the first game of the doubleheader.
But Florida responded the next inning when sophomore Kayli Kvistad crushed a towering solo home run — her second of the year — to right-center.
Kvistad went 4-for-4 in the opening game 
with three RBIs and two runs scored.
The Gators then slowly built a lead in sub-
sequent frames, tacking on two runs in the third and fifth innings.
But the game really got out of hand in the 
sixth.
Three walks and a pair of errors by the Illi-
nois State defense allowed the Gators to score five unearned runs, cracking the game wide open and sealing ISU’s fate.
Sunday marked the second time this sea-UF softball team cruises in 
sweep at weekend tourney
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 14Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz hits a ball during Florida's 8-4 win over FGCU on Feb. 20 at McKethan Stadium.
“This weekend was a good opportunity 
to play at home, in truly our first real 
homestand of the season,”
Tim Walton
UF softball coach14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
The Big Green loaded the bases against Flor-
ida reliever Frank Rubio with just one out in 
the seventh inning. Rubio got Roulis to fly out 
to right for a potential sacrifice fly, but Justin Fowler wasn’t able to score from third base because right fielder Nelson Maldonado’s throw made him hold up.
Rubio then struck out Rob Emery, ending 
the threat.
Against a scrappy Ivy League program 
that gave the Gators all it could handle in the three-game series, Rivera said games like Sun-day can bode well for the team knowing that it can handle adversity when it’s thrown its 
way.
"We came from behind and it’s something 
we haven’t done much," Rivera said.
"It’s a good thing for us and a good feel-
ing."
Florida begins a two-game series against 
North Florida on Tuesday at 6 p.m. in Jack-
sonville, before playing the second game in Gainesville on Wednesday night at 7.
@LFTorresIII.
ltorres@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Faedo struck out four batters in five innings for the Gators
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Buddy Reed hits a ball during Florida's 8-4 win over FGCU on Feb. 20 at McKethan Stadium.
ter about ourselves than if we had dropped another one,” White said. “I just think it helps with your prepa-
ration. We’ll be smiling on the plane for the first time in a couple weeks.”
 After winning its last game, Flor-
ida is feeling confident. But White 
knows that the team will need more than confidence if it wants to make a postseason run. 
"We came to shoot around and we had great focus, great energy," White said on Saturday. "Obvi-
ously moving forward in the SEC 
Tournament, you're searching for 40 minutes of that."
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13UF snapped its four-game losing streak
son the Gators have beaten ISU by 
at least 10 runs. UF won 11-0 in five innings when the teams met on Feb. 12 in Tampa.
In the day’s second game, UF 
was powered to victory by junior lefty Delanie Gourley, who only gave up one run and struck out 13 of the 16 batters she faced while notching her eighth win.
Like ISU in the early game, 
FAMU was able to strike first against Florida, scoring in the top of the third.
But the Gators weren’t rattled. 
Florida responded strongly by scor-ing three runs in the bottom of the inning, beginning with a sacrifice fly by sophomore Janell Wheaton 
that scored Kelsey Stewart.
After a Kvistad walk, Kirsti Mer-
ritt singled to left to drive in Nicole 
DeWitt, who had walked earlier in the inning and proceeded to steal second base.
A bases-loaded walk to senior 
Taylor Schwarz scored Kvistad, ending the scoring for the frame.
Kvistad’s sacrifice fly in the bot-
tom of the sixth put the finishing touches on the game and the week-end for the Gators, who smashed opponents by a combined score of 37-3 over three days.
Florida will face South Dakota 
in a doubleheader on March 9 at 4 p.m.
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg 13Gourley struck out 13 
batters in the win
“W e came from behind and it’s 
something we haven’t done much. It’s a 
good thing for us and a good feeling.”
Mike Rivera
UF catcher
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kayli Kvistad follows through on a swing during Florida's dou-
bleheader sweep against Jacksonville on Feb. 17.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mike White calls out instructions during Florida's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center.16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 7, 2016
SLOAN NOTCHED THE SEVENTH 
PERFECT 10 OF HER COLLEGIATE CAREER 
ON FRIDAY AGAINST KENTUCKY.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
You could hear it in her voice. 
In the wake of another late loss against LSU on Feb. 26, 
Gators gymnastics senior Bridget Sloan sat before the media, disappointed with herself. 
What preceded was arguably the worst performance of her 
collegiate career.
Two mishaps — one on ﬂ  oor, another on beam — docked 
the Gators’ team score.
What was shaping up as a slim victory was clawed away in 
an instant, ending in the form of a 197.900-197.875 Tigers’ win. 
Bristling with determination, the former Olympian came 
clean.
“Tonight was obviously not my best performance ever,” 
Sloan said. “I’ve been doing some overthinking lately. … My 
goal for the next meet is going to be to go back to my old ways 
and just relax and let my body take over.
“I’m going to look back on this meet and say ‘You know 
what? I’m glad we had those mistakes,’ because … you have no idea the ﬁ  re that is literally burning inside me right now.” 
On Friday, Sloan led the No. 2 Gators (7-2, 5-2 Southeastern 
Conference) to a convincing 197.525-196.650 victory over No. 23 Kentucky (6-6, 1-6 SEC), stymying an opponent that posted its third-highest team score in program history.
Spearheading the charge in Florida’s ﬁ  nal conference dual meet, Sloan took home three of ﬁ  ve event titles — clinching laurels in the bars, beam and all-around classiﬁ  cations — while ﬁ  nishing second on vault. 
In particular, her beam performance stood out from the rest. UF’s ﬁ  nal competitor of the meet, Sloan crushed her routine, 
sealing the road win with her seventh collegiate perfect 10 and 
second on the apparatus in Kentucky’s arena.
“I didn’t have in my mind to get a 10.0,” Sloan said. “I wasn’t 
striving for that as I was focusing on doing a good routine and 
(bouncing) back from the rough past two weeks I’ve had. I was able to come out with an incredible routine and a routine our team needed.”
However, it wasn’t as if the Gators’ third-winningest gym-
nast of all time shouldered the entire load. 
Fellow senior Bridgette Caquatto notched a season-high 
9.950 on the ﬂ  oor, taking home the event title and lifting Sloan’s 9.800 on the event. 
Freshman Alicia Boren soared to a collegiate-high tying 
9.950 on the vault, edging Sloan by 0.050 points and snagging the victory. 
On the whole, Florida put together a complete performance, 
turning in the program’s highest-ever score against the Wildcats in Lexington’s Memorial Coliseum. 
“I think the Gators showed that they can bounce back. We 
had two rough ﬁ  rst routines on beam and we were able to com-pletely turn it around and have season or near season-highs by the rest of the lineup,” Sloan said.
“It was deﬁ  nitely an improvement. Jenny (Rowland) always 
says we don’t have to be perfect, just do our best. And that’s what we did.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgSloan, Gators bounce back in win
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler calls out a play during Florida’s 92-69 loss to Kentucky in the SEC T ournament on Friday in the Jacksonville Veterans 
Memorial Arena.
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
JACKSONVILLE —  Heading 
into Friday’s Southeastern Confer-
ence Tournament matchup, UF was poised to avenge its ﬁ  rst-round, 22-point loss in last year’s conference 
tournament. 
Things didn’t go as planned. 
In one of No. 25 Florida’s worst 
performances of the season, the Gators were thoroughly demol-ished 92-69 by No. 13 Kentucky in the Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena and were eliminated from the tournament.
The 23-point loss margin was 
worse than last year’s despite UF going into the game with nine more wins than it had a year ago. It was also Florida’s worst loss margin this season.
“We’re obviously terribly disap-
pointed in the way that we played,” UF coach Amanda Butler said after 
the game.
Redshirt senior guard Carlie Nee-
dles led Florida’s offense, with all 15 
of her points coming from three-point range. Aside from Needles, though, only two other Gators reached dou-ble ﬁ  gures in junior Ronni Williams (10) and freshman Eleanna Christi-naki (12). 
The only bright side for the Gators 
is that, unlike last year, they have the NCAA Tournament to look forward to. With brackets set to be released on March 14 and games scheduled to begin on the 18th, Butler was — albe-it somewhat jokingly — hopeful that whoever Florida gets matched up with, the opponent won’t know the 
Gators as well as SEC opponents do. 
“I hope so,” she said. “That 
sounds good.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgAfter blowout loss in SEC tourney, UF focused on NCAAs
Bridget Sloan competes in the floor portion of 
the competition during Florida’s loss to LSU on Feb. 26.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff