Staff Report
After a year-and-a-half-long 
battle, Donald Trump will become 
the next president of the United States.
Thanks in part to surprise vic-
tories, including Florida, the As-sociated Press called the election for Trump based on a projected 276 electoral votes. Hillary Clinton 
had 215 electoral votes, according 
to the New York Times. 
“America will no longer settle 
for anything less than the best,” 
Trump told supporters after the 
announcement. He said Clinton 
called earlier to concede and con-
gratulate him. 
In Alachua County, about 59 
percent of voters supported Clin-
ton.
As of press time, Republicans 
were expected to take at least 227 
of the 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, according to the AP. Republicans were also pro-jected to take the majority of the U.S. Senate.At Big Daddy Warehouse, about 
100 Trump supporters — dozens 
donning red “Make America Great 
Again” hats — gathered to watch 
the Fox News coverage of the elec-tion. White-and-blue campaign signs lined the walls, and Ameri-
can flags hung from the ceiling.
Lamar Moon, a 59-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said he was 
hopeful Trump would revitalize Washington and bring “business” back to the U.S.
“I think the American people 
are tired of the establishment from both sides,” he said.
Joshua Sookraj, a 21-year-
old Newberry resident, said he 
would sleep easily if Hillary Clin-
ton didn’t become president. A 
naturalized citizen from Guyana, Sookraj said Trump would curb illegal immigration and help legal 
immigrants like him achieve the 
American Dream.
“I love what Donald Trump 
stands for,” he said. “He’s what 
people aspire to be. He’s the We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 57 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
Florida football plays last home game on Saturday
How will the Gators finish out their 
season? pg. 13
TRUMP TAKES ALL
The Associated Press
President-elect Donald Trump gives his acceptance speech during his election night rally, Wednesday, 
Nov. 9, 2016, in New York.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA 
WAS APPROVED AND 
SOLAR POWER FAILED. 
Staff Report
Before Donald Trump clinched 
the presidency early Wednesday, Floridians soundly said yes to medical marijuana and Republi-can candidates. 
Republicans Marco Rubio, Ted 
Yoho and Keith Perry came out victorious, with Rubio defeating Patrick Murphy for U.S. Senate by 8 percent, Yoho defeating Ken McGurn for the District 8 Florida Senate seat by 17 percent and Perry beating Rod Smith by 6 per-cent, according to the Associated Press.
Voters overwhelmingly ap-proved Amendment 2, which will 
allow doctors in Florida to pre-
scribe medical marijuana to pa-
tients with debilitating conditions 
while Amendment 1, a utility-backed attempt to limit rooftop solar-power expansion, failed to gain the 60 percent it needed to pass.
Alachua County Question 2, 
Wild Spaces and Public Places, passed with 60.4 percent of the vote.
For sheriff, incumbent Demo-
crat Sadie Darnell defeated Re-publican challenger Jack Jacobs with 66 percent of the vote.
With about 73 percent voter 
turnout, 129,977 votes were cast in Alachua County, according to the Supervisor of Elections Office.Republicans sweep state, 
US congressional racesSEE NATIONAL,  PAGE 9
SEE LOCAL,  PAGE 4• President:  Donald Trump/
Vice President: Mike 
Pence — 36.01%
• President:  Hillary Clinton/
Vice President: Tim Kaine — 58.27%
• United States Senator: Marco Rubio (Republican) — 42.49%
• Representative in Congress District 8:  T ed 
Yoho (Republican) — 
40.65%• State Senator District 8:  
Keith Perry (Republican) 
— 43.56%
• Alachua County Sheriff: Sadie Darnell (Democrat) — 66.97%
• Constitutional Amendment 1:  Solar 
energy: No — 63.26%
• Constitutional Amendment 2:  
Marijuana for medical 
conditions: Yes — 76.74%How Floridians voted
Source: Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections OfficeClinton conceded early todaySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood 
Drive hosted by LifeSouth 
Community Blood Centers will be held from today until Nov. 18. All blood donors will earn 
points for their chapter and spirit 
points toward Dance Marathon 
2017. Donors will also receive a free T-shirt and will help save a 
life. Bloodmobiles will be locat-
ed at the Newberry Road Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lg-bialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
iSTEAM Speaker Series presents 
USGS marine research ecolo-gistAmanda Demopoulos, a USGS marine research ecologist, will speak at the Marston Science Library today at 2 p.m., Room L136, which is on the first floor. Demopoulos has just returned from her latest ocean cruise and will speak on her experiences as a marine ecologist who explored the deep oceans of the world. The iSTEAM Speaker Series pres-ents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technol-ogy, engineering, the arts and/or math.
RUB Entertainment #LikeAMoss:
DIY TerrariumIs your dorm feeling drab or dreary? Are you wishing for a smidge of green grass, dirt or creepy crawlies to liven up your room? Spend the afternoon from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Thursday in the Reitz Union Amphitheater building your own tiny terrarium during Reitz Union Board Arts' Like A Moss Create Your Own Terrarium. With stones, soil, greenery and insects (fake ones, of course), you will construct your own little jar full of nature. Bring your friends and your green thumb, relax after class and leave with your own terrarium garden. Bring your own blanket to sit on as you craft on the grassy steps.
Interfaith Bridge Builders: 
Making newcomers neighbors Welcoming Gainesville will host a potluck dinner and program featuring Gainesville groups de-voted to understanding people of other faiths Thursday at 7 p.m. at Parkview Baptist Church, located at 3403 NW 13th St. Groups presenting include the Muslim-Christian Dialogue at 
Emmanuel Mennonite Church, 
the Daughters of Abraham, the 
Gainesville Interfaith Forum, 
the Silk Road Club, Habitat for Humanity Interfaith Build, 
Trinity United Methodist Church, 
UF Hillel and the International 
Learning Center at Parkview 
Baptist Church. Following these presentations, there will be 
an open discussion on the ob-
stacles and possibilities facing 
Gainesville residents who are trying to build bridges among local groups of different faiths. 
UF student leaders will report on 
interfaith solidarity on campus, 
and Welcoming Gainesville will introduce programs aimed at re-sponding to Islamophobia, anti-
Semitism and racism.
Grace Marketplace Open House: 
‘A Day of GRACE’
Come hungry and enjoy a ca-tered lunch while listening to live music by The Jazz Bandits and Uptown Swing or take a tour of Grace Marketplace’s local home-less shelter. Come prepared to do some yoga and/or Zumba, receive a chair massage or par-ticipate in a pickup basketball game. Find out about the plan for a new social services cen-ter for low-income-community residents, complete with a con-templative garden. Also find out about volunteer opportunities at their state-of-the-art shelter. The event is Saturday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Grace Marketplace — just one block east of the in-tersection at Waldo Road and Northeast 39th Avenue. Contact Randi Cameon at rcameon@cox.net or 352-359-2603 for more info.
The Magic of Eugene Mullins: 
Crazy EscapesOn Monday and Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Hippodrome State Theatre, Eugene Mullins will follow in the footsteps of his childhood hero, Harry Houdini. Mullins is one of the top escape artists in the coun-try. He has captivated audiences with mind-blowing escapes and breath-taking magic. No lock can hold, no handcuffs can keep and no audience can resist Mullins as he leaves you breathless with his death-defying escapes and mind-blowing magic.
‘Global Engagement Gator Style: 
My Fabulous Fulbright and Strategies for Successful Intercultural Communication’On Tuesday from 3:30 p.m. to 5 
p.m. in the Music Building, Room 
101, come to the last Fulbright 
event of this year in celebration 
of International Education Week. For his six month Fulbright Core 
Faculty Award, Ed Kellerman, 
a master lecturer in the Dial 
Center for Written and Oral 
Communications, taught inter-cultural communication and 
collected data at the Universiti 
Tenaga Nasional in Malaysia. 
This multimedia presentation will feature short, humorous videos and stunning photog-
raphy, illustrating strategies to 
overcome intercultural barriers 
that involve appreciating cultural symbols, being involved with local families, using the Malay 
language effectively. To register, 
please visit goo.gl/h9gtyl. For 
more information, email mcar-dec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
VigilThe 4th Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Nov. 19 at the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 p.m., with a cer-emony beginning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the community, and refreshments will be provided. The vigil will be sponsored by the Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, please contact Donna Eckel at raggedyds@aol.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  77° LOW  53°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 57
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Lee Ann Rufﬁ  er
Alligator Contributing Writer
After seeing videos of the Mannequin Challenge 
appear on her social media accounts, Chelsea Ogugua 
said she wanted to get the UF Student Body involved 
in the craze.
The 22-year-old UF telecommunication senior is 
organizing an event on Turlington Plaza today at 
noon with the hope of it going viral.
The Mannequin Challenge is a trend in which 
people show a slice of life by freezing in positions while someone videotapes the scene. Music is added before the video is posted to the internet. 
“It makes this really cool cinematic movie when 
you put music over it,” Ogugua said.
Ogugua said she originally wanted to do it with 
just a couple of close friends, but she realized it would be more fun to include her UF peers.
“I want to top all the ones I’ve been seeing,” she 
said, “so obviously it’s a challenge.”
As of press time, 180 people responded to Ogugua’s 
Facebook event saying they would attend. 
She said the Mannequin Challenge reﬂ  ects the 
culture of the participants, like athletes posing with 
water bottles. 
Amanda Corral, a 19-year-old UF sport 
management sophomore, said she decided to attend 
the event after a mutual friend joined the event page 
on Facebook. 
The UF men’s basketball team also created a 
Mannequin Challenge video, which Corral said is her 
favorite so far. 
“It’s something that’s going really viral, so it will 
be cool to see the Student Body do it,” she said.  UF student planning Mannequin Challenge
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
EARL Y CAMPAIGNING
A campaigner working for Florida Senate candidate Rod Smith 
wears a cat-astronaut costume while holding signs in opposition to Republican candidate and State Rep. Keith Perry outside the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, a polling location for Alachua County’s 44th Precinct, on Election Day. The campaigner, who did not want to be identiﬁ  ed, said he chose the outﬁ  t for comic relief and as a reference to a political commercial comparing the unlikelihood of cats in space to fracking in Florida. “I just wanted to bring awareness to the fact that Keith Perry approved fracking in Florida, ” the man said.
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
ONE LAST TIME
Pam Carpenter ﬁ  nished her last election as the Alachua County supervisor of elections after 12 years in the position. With three election cycles under her belt, she’s stepping down, handing the reins over to Kim A. Barton. Carpenter said she didn’t feel sad on Tuesday night, “just feeling tired today. ”
4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
Moments after learning he 
would keep his seat in congress, 
Republican Ted Yoho circled the inside of The Social at Midtown, drinking beer from a clear plas-tic cup and taking selfies with friends and supporters.
“I feel good,” Yoho said. “We 
ran on a simple platform. There’s been some mudslinging, but I re-fuse to do negative campaigns.”
He said going into his next 
term, he’s excited to build on work he has already done, and he is hoping for Trump to win the presidential election.
“Our legislature will go after 
the major things we need to go after as a nation,” he said. “We should get a lot done.”
In Newberry, at Ballyhoo 
Grill, Perry, joined by family members, told his supporters he felt honored to represent them after a hard-fought race.
“It certainly is a relief, but 
short-lived because now you 
put the politics behind you and 
look at policy — and that means also taking people who opposed you,” he said. “You don’t repre-sent just the people that voted for you.”
His daughter, Alexis, a 
19-year-old UF biochemistry sophomore, said her father’s election has taken away from her studying time.
“I haven’t been to the library 
for a while because of the elec-tion,” she said. “So I’m gonna go back to the library.”
Downtown at The Ware-
house Restaurant and Lounge, Darnell smiled and hugged staff members before receiving a call from Jacobs, who congratulated her on the victory for her fourth term as the head of the county’s law enforcement arm. She then gave an acceptance speech.“Thank every single one of 
you in this room for this journey, 
this uphill journey,” she said. 
“The next four years are going to 
be absolutely great.”
Sipping red wine and wearing 
all white, a nod to the women’s suffrage movement, 71-year-old Maggie MacDonald watched election results pour in at the Gainesville Woman’s Club, where McGurn hosted a watch party.
Although she is heavily in-
vested in the presidential elec-tion — she wore a laminated “Nasty Woman” sign around her neck — she said locals should show concern for who becomes their local leaders.
“It’s so important because 
that’s where you live and this is where we have to work to put things in the right direction,” she said.
LOCAL,  from pg. 1Darnell will stay as Alachua County sheriffPRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
• Donald J. Trump (Republican): Won Florida
• Hillary Rodham Clinton (Democrat): Lost Florida
U.S. SENATOR
• Marco Rubio (Republican): Won
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS DISTRICT 3
• T ed Yoho (Republican): Won
STATE SENATOR DISTRICT 8
• Keith Perry (Republican): Won
STATE REPRESENTATIVE DISTRICT 10
• Elizabeth Porter (Republican): Won
STATE REPRESENTATIVE DISTRICT 21
• Chuck Clemons (Republican): Won
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AND COMPTROLLER
• J.K. “Jess” Irby (Democrat): Won
SHERIFF
• Sadie Darnell (Democrat): Won
COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 1
• Mike Byerly (Democrat): Won
COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 3
• Robert “Hutch” Hutchinson (Democrat): Won
COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICT 5
• Charles S. “Chuck” Chestnut, IV (Democrat): Won
FLORIDA SUPREME COURT JUSTICE CANADY
• Won (retained in office)
FLORIDA SUPREME COURT JUSTICE LABARGA
• Won (retained in office)
FLORIDA SUPREME COURT JUSTICE POLSTON
• Won (retained in office)
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL JUDGE BILBRAY
• Won (retained in office)
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL JUDGE KELSEY
• Won (retained in office)
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL JUDGE ROWE
• Won (retained in office)
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL JUDGE WETHERELL
• Won (retained in office)
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL JUDGE WINOKUR
• Won (retained in office)
DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL JUDGE WOLF
• Won (retained in office)
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 1 — SOLAR ENERGY
• No
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 2 — MARIJUANA FOR MEDICAL CONDITIONS
• Yes
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 3 — TAX EXEMPTION FOR FIRST RESPONDERS
• Yes
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 5 — HOMESTEAD TAX EXEMPTION
• Yes
ALACHUA COUNTY QUESTION 1 — ONE MILL SCHOOL BOARD TAX
• Yes
ALACHUA COUNTY QUESTION 2 — WILD SPACES & PUBLIC PLACES
• ForLocal and state 
results
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
June Littler, a Hillary Clinton supporter, cheers Hillary Clinton’s victory in New Jersey on Tuesday evening during a watch party at the Gainesville Woman’s Club. Littler said the 2016 election is “the most miserable season (she has) ever been through. ”
Gary Johnson 
(Libertarian): 4,032, 3.2 
percentHillary Clinton 
(Democrat): 75,370, 
59.0 percentDonald Trump 
(Republican): 46,584, 
36.4 percent
Other: 25,324, 0.3 
percentJill Stein (Green): 
63,648, 0.7 percentGary Johnson 
(Libertarian): 204,760, 
2.2 percentDonald Trump 
(Republican): 4,590,783, 
49.1 percentby the
NUMBERSFlorida
Alachua County49.1%
Hillary Clinton 
(Democrat): 4,462,153, 
47.7 percent 47.7%
  2.2%
  0.7%
  0.3%36.4%
59.0%
  3.2%
Source: The Associated PresssWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Gainesville man crashed his 
car into an elementary school’s 
fence and ran away Tuesday morning, leaving behind 28.1 grams of marijuana, Gainesville 
Police said.
At about midnight Tuesday, 
police noticed Steve Dene Stacy 
Jr. speeding down Northeast Eighth Avenue as he swerved onto bike lanes and ignored a stop sign and commands from police to pull over, according to a police report.
After refusing to pull over, 
Stacy turned onto Southeast 13th Street and then Southeast Seventh Avenue before crashing into an 8-foot-tall chain-link fence at Jo-
seph Williams Elementary School, 
located at 1245 SE Seventh Ave., according to the report.
The crash caused about $500 
worth of damage to the fencing. By the time GPD found Stacy’s car, he wasn’t there. Inside, police found the marijuana and a digital scale, along with Stacy’s credit 
card and phone, according to the 
report.
GPD used police dogs and Sta-
cy’s credit-card history to track his location, according to the re-port. The search led them to his home, where police were greeted by Stacy’s grandmother before ﬁ  nding him barefoot and covered in plant seeds in his bedroom.
Under his bed, police found 
Stacy’s dirty socks — and about 1.2 grams of ecstacy, according to the report. He told police he never drove the car, but that he was a passenger during the chase.
Police arrested Stacy on charg-
es of hit and run, ﬂ  eeing and eluding police, driving with a sus-
pended license, possessing mari-
juana with the intent to sell and possessing more than 20 grams of marijuana. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $23,000 bond.  GPD: After car chase, man crashes into 
school fence, runs away without weed
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The founders of a recently closed-
down coffee shop near campus hope 
to muster up $20,000 in donations to reopen elsewhere.
Know Where Coffee, previously 
located at 1226 W. University Ave., closed its doors Nov. 2 after unex-pected construction costs plunged the shop into debt. But it closed with the intentions of eventually reopening. 
On Sunday, co-founder Deyanira 
Romero created a GoFundMe page in an attempt to raise enough money to relocate.
“We wanted to create an outlet for 
people to show their support for the coffee shop,” Romero said.
Alfonso Guerrero, Romero’s hus-band and the shop’s manager, said he and his wife are working to ﬁ  nd a new location with better foot trafﬁ  c 
and a way to operate more efﬁ  ciently.
“We know it’s a process,” Guer-
rero said. “It’s not going to happen 
overnight.”
Guerrero and Romero said they 
chose $20,000 as the goal on their GoFundMe page because they know from past experience that would be the minimum amount they would 
need to start again. The shop was 
$30,000 in debt when it closed, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
They said they do not know if 
their fundraising goal will be met, so they are also looking to potential partners and investors for help.
The goal is to reopen by Fall 2017, 
with a soft opening during Summer B, but they plan to take their time to properly prepare.
Guerrero said he knows the one 
thing that won’t change is the quality of the shop’s locally sourced artisanal coffee. 
Cami Hall, 20, said she feels Know 
Where’s pricey brews — ranging from $2.75 to $5.50 per cup — may deter some customers. Despite visit-ing the shop’s previous location ev-ery other week, she said she hopes 
Guerrero lowers his prices if he re-
opens the shop.
“I hope the best for them,” the UF 
business administration junior said. “I love seeing small businesses suc-ceed.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  Know Where Coffee creates 
fundraiser to open new store
SENATORS ALSO 
APPROVED STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION FUNDING 
AND A SENATE SEAT.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer 
During Tuesday’s Student Senate 
meeting, senators honored the life 
of a UF student. 
Along with approving funding 
for two student organizations, a re-placement graduate senator and a resolution honoring former UF ath-letics director Jeremy Foley, Senate passed a resolution honoring Abi-gail Dougherty, who was killed Oct. 28 by a garbage truck while riding her bicycle north of campus. 
Senator Alyssa Bethencourt (Im-
pact, Sophomore), who drafted the resolution honoring Dougherty, said she reached out to Dougherty’s close friends to write it. 
“I almost felt like I had that con-
nection with her, but I was never lucky enough to meet her,” she said. “I felt like she had such a huge impact. I wanted to make sure she was always remembered here at the University of Florida.” 
Bethencourt, who was not at 
the meeting, wrote a letter read by another senator. In the letter, she thanked senators for passing the resolution. After passing the reso-lution, Senate held a moment of silence for Dougherty and those af-fected by the loss. 
Senate also approved a resolu-
tion honoring Foley, who stepped down from his post as athletics di-rector Oct. 31. 
The student organizations UF 
Information Security Team and Ja-maican Student Association were approved for funding, totaling $562 and $2,170, respectively.  Senate approves resolutions 
honoring UF student, Jeremy Foley
APPROVED BY 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT:  
• Neil Decenteceo for a 
permanent replacement 
graduate seat 
• Resolution honoring the life 
of Abigail Dougherty 
• Resolution honoring former athletics director Jeremy 
Foley for his service to UF
• Funding for UF Information 
Security T eam, totaling 
$562
• Funding for Jamaican Student Association, 
totaling $2,170The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORMoving forward: 
There’s work to do
The bitter, nasty saga that became the 2016 election is 
over. Donald Trump is our next president. 
But we’re resigning ourselves to an outcome most of 
you know a majority of our staff didn’t want to see. Be-fore some of you mock the liberal media one last time, 
it appears it’s not an outcome Alachua County or the majority of voters under 40 wanted to see, either. 
Here’s what we know for sure: We will accept and support 
the results of the electoral college. We will not point ﬁ  ngers 
at members of the media, who predicted a drastically different 
outcome; the people who felt a candidate celebrated by the 
leader of the Ku Klux Klan would be the best leader for our 
country’s future; the voters who gave a vote to a third-party 
candidate or a “Harambe” write-in. 
At this point, we move forward. We can’t dwell on what 
could have been. 
In the Alligator newsroom, we were an hour or so after 
midnight, and as the minutes crept closer to our print dead-line, there was still a handful of us in the ofﬁ  ce. Besides the 
frustration of an impending deadline with the possibility of an 
unconﬁ  rmed result, anger, fear and sadness lingered in the air.
There are women here who wanted their ﬁ  rst presidential 
votes to be cast for the ﬁ  rst female president, and the sting of an inexperienced man being chosen over an experienced 
woman hits a little too close to home. There are members of the LGBTQ+ community here, and they’re afraid to lose 
the rights they got a little more than a year ago, afraid of a 
vice president who has upheld conversion therapy as a safe medical solution to being gay. There are minorities here, and 
they’re angry that a white majority has silenced their voices, 
afraid that the whispers of hate and the threats of deportation will just grow louder and louder. 
We’ve witnessed a range of emotions that reﬂ  ects a major-
ity of the posts we’ve seen on social media from our friends and our readers.
For those of you who are justiﬁ  ably sad, disappointed, 
afraid or angry, we wish we could say the country is going to be OK. That you’re going to be OK; that you, reader, won’t 
have to fear for yourself, for your family, for your neighbors, 
for the strangers you share ethnicities, religions and traditions with. But we can’t. Volatile, dangerous words and promises 
have been casually and enthusiastically tossed around this 
election cycle, and now they may become policies. 
The man who is the president-elect isn’t known for his con-
tinuity, his accountability or his decency. The unknown and the danger that comes with that isn’t to be taken lightly. 
But here’s what we do know. 
Each day is a new day. There are things to hold onto, to 
work for, to build upon — the social and economic progress 
we have seen in our lifetime, the family and friends that are 
our support systems, our inability to give up on this country 
and its people even if the future seems bleak or if our attempts 
seem futile.
We won’t give up. We can’t give up. At this point, we’re still holding onto hope that the America 
we believe in — one of equality and freedom — will emerge from the one we see now, a country tinged with hate, fear and 
division. We can rebuild this country into something greater than ever before, a country where people can compromise and 
work together. 
We’re still angry, afraid and upset. But the emotion that 
will remain, and needs to remain, is hope.
The power of imagination in a child’s mind
We all have our own worlds inside 
our minds. The amount of creativi-ty and imagination on this subcon-
scious realm allows us to ﬁ  gure out 
things in our daily lives, cope with 
complicated situations and even dissipate the adversity of the moment. The subconscious 
actually helps us cope with issues, confront 
our problems and understand the real world outside our front doors every morning.
When we’re little, we live in this universe 
of ours almost all day. As we grow older, we 
detach from our imaginations in order to interact with 
the things around us. However, some of us have expe-rienced this disassociation more deeply than others. We have had people impose their ideas in such negative 
ways that we have almost completely left our subcon-
scious worlds. In this process we have left our innocent creativity, passions and imagination.
Sadly, we pay the price later on when we are not 
able to confront situations in real life. We have lost the ability to separate ourselves from the chaos of our daily lives and go to the safe, happy spaces in our minds. Eventually, we grow dependent on material things and other people because we 
are not able to ﬁ  nd peace within ourselves. 
We start looking for attention and control. At the end of the day, we ﬁ  nd ourselves in compromising situations that might affect our 
feelings even further.
As a kid, I was diagnosed with an atten-
tion disorder. Teachers pressured me into the 
idea that I needed to ground myself and cross the rainbow into reality as often as possible in 
order to achieve my goals. This allowed me to gradu-ate high school and conquer my academic goals. In the process, I lost part of my imagination and creativity that allowed me to escape from my problems and ﬁ  nd some 
inner peace. Nowadays, I see how deep the struggle is 
for me to go back to my wonderland and ﬁ  nd some in-ner peace in my life.
Therefore, I would like to encourage the idea of 
compassion toward kids’ imaginations. Kids live in and 
create universes in which they are able to explore and 
learn. Allow them to share this world with you while you teach them lessons. Also, show compassion toward the ones that still have this gift and are able to ﬁ  nd re-
spite from reality more easily than you. 
Let’s avoid judging these children and anyone else 
you consider different from you. In addition, if you still 
have this ability, don’t be ashamed of your imagina-tion. Show it to others, and share your inner love with 
the people who surround you. In order to change the 
world, we must learn to accept that reality is full of all of the colors on the spectrum, and we must learn to respect the different things people imagine and appreci-
ate, whether they make sense to us or not.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
“I would like to encourage the 
idea of compassion toward 
kids’ imaginations. Kids live 
in and create universes in 
which they are able to explore 
and learn.”WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
For the past two Wednesdays, Scott 
Stinson wrote coupled columns titled “Secular self-reﬂ  ection is necessary” in which he replied to an editorial written by the Alligator’s editorial board titled 
“Religious self-reﬂ  ection is necessary.” Stin-son remarks that Mr. Editorial’s article bases its argument on multiple empty assumptions. While Stinson is right to critique Mr. Edito-rial’s assumptions, Stinson’s arguments need critique as well.
The ﬁ  rst assumption Stinson addresses that 
Mr. Editorial does inherently make is regard-ing the existence of God or any gods. Stinson 
shows why Mr. Editorial’s assumption “God(s) 
do not exist” is wrong by arguing fallaciously. Stinson cites Mr. Editorial’s argument “that we have created 3,000+ gods throughout his-tory,” not as proof against the existence of God or gods, but as proof for them. Stinson contin-ues to cite this quantitative data as a proper argument for the existence of gods by asking rather foolish and fallacious rhetorical ques-
tions: “Why would an overwhelming majority 
of human beings throughout time and in most cultures form these perceptions if they were not true? Would we have hunger if food did not exist, or sexual desire if sex did not exist?” Before I begin my critique, Mr. Stinson, please take a philosophy of religion course. You must accept and learn there are no proofs for the existence of or against God or gods.Anyway, Stinson’s argument 
rests in the ad populum fallacy — the bandwagon fallacy that claims a proposition is true simply because many people believe it to be so. Let 
me remind you that bloodletting — 
the surgical removal of a patient’s blood — was the panacea until the 1800s, the Ptolemaic system of the universe in which Earth is the cen-ter of the universe was our under-standing of astronomy and even re-cently Americans used to believe smoking was safe and healthy. As we can see, many things 
we believed were correct weren’t so. Also, Mr. 
Stinson, sexual desire is not present in some people, whom I believe would identify as asexual, even though sex does exist.
Stinson explains the reasons behind his 
views in the second part of his column. He notes that Mr. Editorial’s innate sense of equal-ity must come from somewhere: a somewhere he claims to be from “the life and teachings of 
Jesus Christ and the Christian tradition.” 
Yes, I agree that if the “rapid growth of 
Christianity and its cultural inﬂ  uence” had 
not occurred, the West may be radically differ-ent, and it is important to note this. However, we would need only to look before Christian-ity to see that other cultures and people were sharing similar, if not the same, messages. Confucius, Laozi and Siddhartha Gautama all preached messages of egalitari-anism, showing equality doesn’t originate solely from Christianity.
The larger issue with referenc-
ing Christianity for egalitarianism 
is when Stinson writes, “I believe 
God created all of mankind in His image.” For a religion so egalitar-ian, many times the diction seems a bit masculine, doesn’t it? Here, Stinson is referencing Genesis 1:27: “God created mankind in 
His own image.” This gets problematic as God — who is typically seen as male — is creating 
mankind, not humankind, in His image. It’s 
a bit male-centric, and the Old Testament is known for oppressive messages. For example, there’s the ubiquitously cited message against homosexuality in Leviticus 20:13: “If a man has sexual relations with a man as one does with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They are to be put to death.”
I understand citing the Old Testament, es-
pecially Leviticus, is improper because in the New Testament, Paul says Christians are free from the cursed book of the law and Christ redeemed humankind from the law by be-coming a curse for humankind. However, it is important to note that the Old Testament is the foundation of Christianity, and the New Testament isn’t so perfectly egalitarian either. Corinthians 11 should be enough to prove my point. There’s Corinthians 11:3: “The head of every man is Christ, and the head of a woman is man,” and Corinthians 11:7: “A man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of 
man.”
I am not stating that because of these mi-
nor instances the Bible is evil. That would be 
foolish, as the rest of the Bible shares moral messages I align myself with and live my life by. I also want it to be known I am not writing to attack Mr. Stinson for his beliefs.
I’m writing this because, as both Mr. Edito-
rial and Mr. Stinson have noted, I think a bit of 
reﬂ  ection is due: not of the religious self, not 
of the secular self, but of our own reasons for believing what we believe. If you, Mr. Stinson, believe Christianity to be an egalitarian way of life, then you cannot cherry-pick what you like and disregard what you don’t like. If we as Americans wish to claim this country as the best there is, we must acknowledge our fool-ish faults of the past — Japanese internment 
camps, slavery, segregation — and move for-
ward from them. Change is possible, and we shouldn’t be judged by who we were in the past, but by who we are now. Yet if we can-not acknowledge our own past mistakes, it’s impossible to say we’ve changed. 
James Hardison is a UF English sopho-
more.
Reﬂ  ection of our arguments is necessary, especially if they are publishedGuest Column
James Hardison
Speaking Out
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016  ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
 Nov. 9 Trump is announced as the 
next U.S president. 2016
presidential 
timeline2015 March 
2
U.S. State Department ofﬁ  cials 
announce that Hillary Clinton used a personal email account to conduct government business in her role as secretary of state.
Hillary Clinton announces her candidacy for president on YouTube. April 
12
May
22
The ﬁ  rst batch of Hillary Clinton’s 
emails are released.
June 
16
Trump announces his candidacy for president. Sept.
8
Hillary Clinton releases an apology 
and a statement on her Facebook 
page for her email scandal.
2016 March 
11
Bernie Sanders visits UF.
ican Dream.”
For Kristina Thompson and Ni-
cole Serrano, Clinton supporters, 
Tuesday night was one they could not spend alone.
Scared of the prospect of Trump 
becoming president, the couple joined a gathering of about 250 people at First Magnitude Brewing Company to drink their stresses away.
Serrano, a 22-year-old UF alum-
na, said she would be crying at the end of the night no matter the out-come. For Thompson, 23, a Trump presidency was unthinkable. He said watching Trump’s debates with Clinton proved to her that his political rise has been inﬂ  uenced by bigotry.“I can’t fathom a country that 
is run by him,” said Thompson, a Santa Fe College anthropology sophomore. “In my mind, there’s nothing scarier than a Trump presi-dency.”
In the thick of the crowd, 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe, a Democrat, appeared with a growler of beer, praising Clinton’s cam-paign. He said she did a good job reaching groups like Hispanics and African-Americans, but the race was too close to call at the time.
“We knew it was going to be 
razor-thin,” he said.
When he thinks back on the 
election, he will be reminded of his daughters and what kind of coun-try they will grow up in. Despite the outcome, he said he would look forward to the day that the the most powerful person in the U.S. is a woman.
“If that ceiling got crushed, it 
would be a remarkable day in our nation’s history,” he said.
At 101 Cantina, about 200 bod-
ies dressed in red and blue stood pressed together as people drank and celebrated the candidates’ wins state by state. 
Bartenders stood on top of the 
bar outside the Midtown hotspot, pouring blue and red drinks into people’s mouths. Cheers for Clin-ton and Trump were mostly even, but when Trump took Ohio, a key swing state, supporters jumped up and down on tables and cheered. 
Olivia Johnson sat with her 
friends, shaking a Trump-Pence sign and screaming each time a state turned red.
The 19-year-old UF business 
sophomore said she supports Trump because she believes there needs to be a change in the way politics are conducted in the coun-try.
“I’m not looking out for me; 
I’m looking out for my children,” she said. “If Hillary wins — it ain’t good.”
Across the deck, Michael Reyes 
sat wearing all black with one strand of blue beads. The UF his-tory junior said he was not afﬁ  li-ated with a political party, but that he wanted Clinton to win.
“Obviously, I’m not gonna 
vote for Donald Trump ever,” the 20-year-old said. “I’m really ner-vous for this right now.”
He said he registered to vote in 
Alachua County, but as it seemed Trump would win the presidency, he wished he had cast his vote in his home county of Miami-Dade. 
“I messed up,” he said. “My 
vote would have weighed really heavily there.”
Despite a large turnout from 
both sides of the aisle, once Trump took Florida, many Clinton sup-porters, including Reyes, left the bar disappointed.
“I can’t watch anymore,” he 
said.
For Jeffrey Maldonado, a 
22-year-old UF student who voted for Clinton, a victory for Trump would have lasting effects on the country’s political system.
“From now on, you don’t have 
to be a career politician to be presi-dent,” the political science junior said. “This is going to change poli-tics forever.” 
NATIONAL,  from pg. 1Winning projections were not made until nearly 3 a.m. todayJuly
19
 Trump becomes the Republican 
Party nominee.July
26
Clinton becomes the Democratic Party nominee. Oct.
8
The Washington Post reported 
Trump was captured on video talking 
about his attempts to seduce women. Oct.
12
Donald Trump speaks in Ocala. Oct.
23
Tim Kaine speaks at UF. 
Nov.
5
Bill Clinton makes stops in 
Gainesville.Nov.
8
The Trump campaign ﬁ  les a 
lawsuit over Nevada poll workers 
extending early voting polls to 
accommodate long lines.  
HIAKAZUTNV
CA
NMORWA
WYIDMT ND
SD
NE
CO
KS
OK
TXMN
IA
MO
AR
LAWI
MI
ILIN
KY
TN
MSALGA
FLSCNCVAOH
WVRI
DENJPANYME
NHVT
MA
CT
MDELECTION 2016
A teen for Trump
Standing outside First Lutheran Church, a 
polling location, 18-year-old Nicholas Bruce 
said he is happy the presidential election is finally over. 
Bruce, a Trump supporter of Puerto Ri-
can and African-American descent, said the election has caused tension between races, which has been especially pronounced at his majority-Hispanic church.
“I see how easily divided we are as people, 
communities — even churches,” Bruce said.
A candidate’s wife 
Linda McGurn, the wife of District 3 Dem-
ocratic congressional candidate Ken McGurn, 
stood outside the Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts holding a sign that read “Vote 
for my husband.”
Campaign members made her the sign, she 
said, as she wielded it while talking to voters. 
By 2 p.m., McGurn said she had been stand-
ing outside the center for three hours but had 
been campaigning all over Gainesville since 
7 a.m.
“I’m just so glad it’s over,” she said.A Democratic campaigner
Chris Ott, a 62-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent, said she planned to stand outside the 
Florida Museum of Natural History for the 12 hours polls were open Tuesday.
Ott, a campaigner for the Alachua County 
Democratic Party, said he had been there since 7 a.m., reminding UF students and young voters the ballot holds more than just the next president. He handed them thin blue papers, telling them about local Democratic candidates.
“I feel like I’m making a difference here,” 
he said.
A sign of support 
To sway undecided voters Tuesday, UF 
construction management junior Alex Visag-
gio hung a Donald Trump campaign sign over the front door of his house. 
To him, Trump’s unwavering political 
views make him a more suitable presidential candidate than Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, who Visaggio said often changes her mind on issues. Gainesville voters speak out
 Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Chelsea MacKenzie, a 26-year-old Clinton supporter, looks up at the TV in shock as the election results become more evident at First Magnitude Brewing Company on Tuesday evening. About 250 people attended the watch party, hosted by the Hillary Clinton campaign. 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Soﬁ  a McGraw, a 20-year-old UF political science and English junior, hugs her friend Ashley Suarez, a 20-year-old UF history and English student, at 101 Cantina on Tuesday night after Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton clinches California.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Trump supporter Art Konstantino, a 61-year-old business owner from Williston, Florida, laughs while watching the Fox News Channel during a watch party on Tuesday night as the presidential election results rolled in. Konstantino said he became a Republican because he believes “you have got to control as much as you can in your own life. ”
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
Zackery Stelmashenko holds up a sign in support of Donald Trump at 101 Cantina on Tuesday night.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-14-16-12-2
2BR - Small pet ok$525/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     10-31-16-5-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
1. HISTORY: Who was the first 
woman to be prime minister of the 
United Kingdom?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What U.S. city’s nickname is The Mile-High City?
3. MEDICAL: What does the Greek 
suffix “-algia” refer to in medical terms?
4. BIBLE: Noah was the grandson of 
what biblical character?
5. ADVERTISEMENTS: Which 
fast-food restaurant chain urges patrons to “eat fresh”?
6. MUSIC: Bebop is a style of what 
kind of music?
7. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the character played by Marilyn Mon-roe in “Some Like it Hot”?
8. LITERATURE: What famous 
ghost story was penned by Henry James?
9. TRANSPORTATION: What is the 
world’s oldest airline still operating under its original name?
10. LEGAL: Witnesses who would 
prefer not to incriminate themselves 
might refuse to answer by citing which 
amendment to the U.S. Constitution?
Answers
1. Margaret Thatcher2. Denver3. Pain4. Methuselah5. Subway6. Jazz7. Sugar Kane Kowalczyk8. “The Turn of the Screw”9. KLM
10. The Fifth
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 7, 2016 King Features Weekly ServiceLive Longer.
Drive Sober.
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. 
Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18
ACROSS
1 Welcomed at the
door
6 “Shame on you!”
9 German trick-
taking card game
13 St. Teresa’s town14 Use as a source15 Egg on
16 Shade lighter
than jade
18 Reckless act
instigator
19 Witty Bombeck
20 Euros replaced
them
21 Buffoons
22 Target Field, e.g.
24 Nowhere near
cool
26 N.L. mascot
whose head is a
large baseball
28 Cracks up
31 Finnish
telecommunica-tions company
34 Lindsay of
“Freaky Friday”
(2003)
36 Bud’s partner37 Exclude from the
list
38 Shrewd ... and a
phonetic hint to
this puzzle’s fourlongest answers
39 Creatures of
habit?
40 Like Mars,
visually
41 Storybook
elephant
42 Sneaks a look
43 Points of view45 Sleeping giant
47 Actors memorize
them
49 Riddle-ending
question
53 Chew out
55 “Now it makes
sense”
57 One-named
supermodel
58 __ Scotia
59 London co-
creator of theInternationalPlant NamesIndex
61 Meryl’s “it’s
Complicated” 
co-star
62 Chevy
subcompact63 Pasta tubes
64 Skip a turn65 Headed up66 Infuriated with
DOWN
1 Sushi bar brews2 Prevent3 Bedrock wife4 Words starting a
confession
5 Lawmaker’s
rejection
6 22-Across level7 Energetic mount8 He’s a doll9 Numbers game
10 Super-strong
adhesive brand
11 Soil-related prefix12 Pro shop bagful14 Forensics facility17 Feeling blue
21 Cereal
component
23 Nest egg letters
25 Big name in
facial scrubs
27 Forum robes
29 Traffic alert
30 Puzzle (out)
31 Screenwriter
Ephron
32 It may be a bad
sign33 Extreme care
35 “Fasten your
seatbelts”
38 Violin protector39 “Swell
suggestion!”
41 Calisthenics
movement
42 After-school org.44 Shrubs with
lavender blooms
46 Perlman of
“Cheers”48 Colander cousin
50 Change, as a
motion
51 Old Testament
food
52 Illustrator’s 
close-up
53 Easy-peasy task
54 Picnic soft drink56 Neighbor of Nor.
59 __ Kan pet 
foods
60 Tach reading
By C.C. Burnikel
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/09/1611/09/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 9, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-8-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Medical Assistant or Pre-Med student want-ed for temporary (Nov/Dec) , full time posi-tion with busy pediatric office. Please send resume to worthingtonpeds@yahoo.com or via fax 352-371-4865      11-16-16-5-14
Administrative Assistant needed at Millhopper Montessori School. Must be a self-starter & have the ability to work independently on proj-ects to completion, be comfortable working in an array of areas and environments and must be comfortable accepting new tasks at a moment’s notice. 9:00AM–5:00PM / one hour lunch. Requirements: CPR and First Aid Certification / Training or experience in related field, 4-Year Degree preferred, but not required. Contact Amilda Clark 352-375-6773, or mmschool@millhopper.com    11-16-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
"How long do we have?"
Florida football coach Jim McElwain, when asked: What was the most 
disheartening thing from your 31-10 loss to Arkansas on Saturday?Amanda Butler and the UF 
women's basketball team open the season this Friday against South Alabama in Jacksonville. Read the story on pg. 15.By Alligator Staff
With only two conference games remaining, 
Florida can still win the SEC East if it can defeat South Carolina at home and No. 19 LSU on the road. Add on a road matchup at No. 22 Flori
-
da State, however, and the home stretch of UF’s schedule looks daunting. How will the Gators fin
-
ish out the season? Sports writers Ethan Bauer, 
Ian Cohen, Jordan McPherson and Patrick Pinak 
debate.
Bauer:
Florida is once again facing a brutal stretch to 
close out its season, and with the barrage of in -
juries sustained against Arkansas, the end of this season could be rougher than the end of the last. 
A season ago, Florida closed with a lack
-
luster, overtime victory against Florida Atlantic followed by a trio of resounding defeats against Florida State, Alabama and Michigan. And this season, there’s no Florida Atlantic-esque team to tune up for FSU. Instead, the Gators will face LSU in what will be — undoubtedly — UF’s most im
-
portant game of the season. 
After the Gators beat South Carolina this 
weekend, the LSU game will determine if Florida makes it to the Southeastern Conference Cham
-
pionship for the second season in a row. And I 
don’t think the Gators get it done in Death Val -
ley. 
If Florida doesn’t make it, it avoids humilia -
tion at the hands of Alabama. If it does make it, 
UF loses by more than 20 points. 
As for the annual rivalry game against the 
Seminoles, Florida still isn’t good enough to get it done. Florida State will take the victory, their fourth in a row. 
And as for a bowl game, does it really matter? 
With four losses, perhaps the Belk Bowl, the Mu
-
sic City Bowl or the TaxSlayer Bowl are on the horizon. And yes, those are exactly as prestigious as they sound. 
Cohen: It will take a dramatic ending, but Florida will 
win the SEC East. 
And here’s why.Florida has never lost back-to-back regular season games under Jim McElwain. Yes, less than two seasons is a small sample size, but I don’t see Florida losing its second-straight game this weekend, especially against a Will Mus
-
champ-led South Carolina on Senior Day.
LSU is where it starts to get interesting. You 
can make the argument that a road game in Death Valley will be the toughest game Florida has or will play all season. LSU gave up just 10 points to No. 1 Alabama 
at home last weekend, and the Crimson Tide rank fourth in the SEC in total offense. 
Compare that to Florida, which ranks 12th in 
the SEC and might not have their starting quar
-
terback or center (or linebackers, for that mat -
ter), and there aren’t many reasons for optimism. 
So after a win against South Carolina and a 
loss against LSU, I’ll inexplicably take Florida over FSU on the road. Call it a gut feeling (I pre -
fer innate genius), but I think the Seminoles’ winning streak will be snapped purely because they’ll be hosting a pissed off Florida team who has just lost their third road game of the season.
My prediction: UF goes 2-1 down the stretch, 
and the rest of the SEC East will be just bad enough to let Florida sweep in and take the divi
-Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain looks on during Florida's 24-10 win over Georgia on Oct. 29 in Jacksonville. McElwain's team finished last season by going 1-3 in its last four games with losses to Alabama, Florida State and Michigan and an overtime win over FAU. 
ROUNDTABLE
After a disappointing end to 2015, how will Florida finish 2016?
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Joey Ivie remembers Will Mus-
champ well. 
He remembers the former Flor-
ida coach coming to visit him at Pasco High School. He remembers all the phone calls. He remembers the in-home visit when Muschamp and a pair of other coaches showed up to find Chinese takeout awaiting them on his family’s dinner table. And even though Muschamp 
was fired two years ago, Ivie still feels a connection with the coach who brought him to Florida. 
“You still always, I guess you 
could say, have that friendship feelings for the coaches that were here,” Ivie said. 
For Muschamp, the feeling is 
mutual. 
“I admire a lot of those guys,” he 
said. “... But at the end of the day, when the game starts, it doesn’t re-ally matter who’s tearing across that sideline.”
His sentiment applies to both 
sides, of course. Muschamp and Florida’s players all said they won't feel overly sentimental about facing each other. 
Nevertheless, Muschamp’s re-
turn to The Swamp on Senior Day makes  for an awkward new chap-ter in his history with Florida given that he recruited all of UF’s seniors. He’s now tasked with making their last game at Ben Hill Griffin Stadi-um — a place he undoubtedly once promised them they would remem-ber fondly — one that haunts them. 
Meanwhile, the Gators are hop-
ing that the changes implemented by coach Jim McElwain after Mus-champ’s firing will lead them to a victory over their former coach. 
But just what are those changes?On Monday, three players took 
to the lectern to field questions from reporters and all three were asked the same one: What’s been the big-gest difference since McElwain took over?
“The chemistry 100 percent has 
changed,” Ivie said. “From my freshman year to now we’re a com-pletely different team. I can look at from the kicker to the quarterback to the offensive linemen and call them for anything.”
Added linebacker Daniel McMil-
lian: “I noticed that as a team we 
Muschamp hoping to spoil his former team’s season SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 16
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The last time Florida’s women’s 
basketball team made the trek to 
Jacksonville’s Veterans Memorial Arena, it fell victim to a 43-year trend.
The Gators have traditionally 
struggled away from Gainesville, registering a combined record of 328-370 in all away and neutral-site 
games.
However, Amanda Butler isn’t 
concerned. As it prepares for a sea-
son-opening 12-game road trip, the 10th-year coach is conﬁ  dent that her team will get off on the right foot against South Alabama this Friday.
With nine players eligible to 
play, Butler will be forced to run a short bench. But what the Gators 
lack in numbers, Butler said, they 
make up for in competitiveness. Drawing comparisons to Florida’s eight-player 2013-14 team that reached the second round of the NCAA Tournament, Butler high-lighted the drive her players had, pinpointing it as a reason for their success. 
“Our culture went through 
growth that I think was a direct re-sult of having such a small, tight-knit group,” she said. “They had a lot of passion and just weren’t go-ing to be denied for any reasons. 
“I see a lot of those same quali-
ties in this team.”
Aside from practices, the play-
ers make an effort to spend time to-
gether off the court, regularly going 
out to eat as a group and celebrat-ing each other’s birthdays. 
The bonds between them goes 
beyond basketball, and Butler be-lieves that trust has bolstered their  performance. Starters aren’t shy to sub-out when tired, conﬁ  dent that their bench will maintain the ener-
gy level that’s integral to the team’s identity. 
“We like to say that we want to 
throw the ﬁ  rst punch and be the 
tone-setters and not be back on our heels but up on our toes,” Butler said.
The coaching staff has done its 
part in readying the team for its six-week road slate, scheduling scrim-mages in places like Albany, Geor-gia, and Daytona Beach. The Gators are familiar with their travel rou-tines, comfortable with driving the distance to their scheduled home games in Jacksonville and Ocala.  
And despite what the record 
books might say, UF is ready to hit the road. 
“Honestly, I think they’re look-
ing forward to it,” Butler said.
“We have a group that likes 
each other, and travel is fun when you’re with people that you like.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
IN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463RUN DATE DEADLINE
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH
The Associated Press
Will Muschamp talks with defensive back Steven Montac during 
South Carolina's 31-21 win over Missouri on Saturday.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler addresses reporters during the Florida women's basketball team's annual media day. The team opens the season this Friday against South Alabama in Jacksonville. 
come more together. I see myself 
hanging with players that I never 
hung with before, such as offen-
sive linemen. Special teams, they so funny. The funniest people on the team.”
And then there was receiver 
Ahmad Fulwood, who took a dif-ferent angle.
“He just established that we 
have really good players," Ful-
wood said. "It was apparent to 
us that he was right and that we 
do have talented players, and we could be as good as we want to be.”
In short, things have deﬁ  nite-
ly changed. But whether those changes will mean anything against Muschamp’s Gamecocks is another question. 
It probably wouldn’t have 
been much of a question just three weeks ago when South Carolina was 2-4. But following wins over UMass, Tennessee and Missouri, 
the Gamecocks feel rejuvenated. 
And with a win against UF, they 
stay alive for a chance to play 
for the Southeastern Conference Championship. 
Meanwhile, Florida needs a 
win to retain control of the SEC 
East but wouldn’t be eliminated 
with a loss. But if the Gators lose, their chances of making a second-
consecutive trip to the Georgia 
Dome plummet. 
Even with the added moti-
vation to defeat his old team, 
though, Muschamp remained ﬁ  rm 
in his feelings about Florida. 
“There’s no hard feelings,” he 
said. 
“There’s no animosity. There’s 
no grudge.”
But does he want to be the 
cause of Florida’s conference title 
hopes taking a massive blow?
“Oh, no doubt,” Fulwood said. 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg13Florida needs to defeat 
South Carolina to retain control of the SEC EastWOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Florida prepping for season openersion crown.
McPherson: 
If you asked me this question two 
weeks ago, I would have told you Florida would deﬁ  nitely beat South Carolina, put up a ﬁ  ght against LSU and probably defeat Florida State for the ﬁ  rst time since 2012. But now, I’m 
not so sure. 
Forget losing Del Rio potentially 
for the rest of the season. The Gators’ 
defense is the spot experiencing the biggest setback with linebackers Alex Anzalone and Jarrad Davis out of commission. Let’s face it. David Re-ese, Kylan Johnson and Daniel Mc-
Millian are not going to stop Leonard 
Fournette and Dalvin Cook. 
And Will Muschamp-led South 
Carolina has found an offensive 
groove as of late, averaging 29.7 points and 382.7 yards over the last three games — wins over UMass, Ten-
nessee and Missouri.
For those reasons, I have Florida 
going 0-3 down the stretch (Yes, I’m 
saying the Gators will lose to South 
Carolina). With that, the Gators will fall to 6-5 in the regular season (4-4 in SEC play), lose the SEC East title they seemingly had in their grasp a week ago and play in a low-tier bowl game. 
Could Florida rally around its new 
starting quarterback and make a state-ment? Absolutely. Could the defense still hold its own? Sure. But we’ve heard that story before. It hasn’t worked out, so I’m not buying it yet.
Pinak:I predicted at the beginning of the 
season UF would ﬁ  nish with four loss-es, and I’m sticking with that. 
Florida will take care of South 
Carolina handily, mainly because it’s Senior Day and Will Muschamp hol-lering from the opposing sideline will provide extra motivation. Then UF’s ﬁ  nal two regular-season 
games come down to the now injury-ridden defense that gave up 38 points at Tennessee and 31 at Arkansas. 
No Alex Anzalone and a hobbling 
Jarrad Davis will create problems in stopping opposing run games, which means Leonard Fournette and Dalvin Cook will feast like they know how.
With the SEC East title on the line, 
the Gators will stumble against LSU in Death Valley. 
It’s a rare day game in Baton Rouge 
and the crowd may not be as boister-ous, but Florida’s offense just has too many question marks to challenge the Tigers. Plus, if Alabama mustered a measly 10 points in Tiger Stadium, there’s no way UF will come close to that. 
Are negative points possible?A bout with FSU a week later will 
follow a similar script. 
FSU’s defense has allowed at least 34 points in more than half of their games, but Florida’s offense is still paltry. 
Whether Luke Del Rio’s right 
shoulder is healthy by then won’t make much of a difference, as the Gators won’t be able to keep pace with a Cook-led Seminoles offense. 
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio throws a pass during Florida's 24-10 win over Georgia on Oct. 29 in Jacksonville. Del Rio, who has started six of Florida's eight games, will be out against South Carolina after sustaining a shoulder injury against Arkansas. 
ROUNDTABLE,  from pg13UF will play without two of its starting linebackers on Saturday