We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 41 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
Who is UF football’s midseason 
MVP?
Jalen T abor is one of the candidates, pg. 14
UF business students help complete invention
It’s a towel to help with sweat, pg. 3
App gives discounts for restaurants near campus
UF is one of four schools with the app, pg. 5Hungry for culture
See the photo story from Asian Kaleidoscope
Month’s food festival, pg. 8
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
DO IT FOR AN EGG-CELLENT CAUSE
Justin Mathew, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, gets pelted with an egg by a member of the Sigma 
Beta Rho multicultural fraternity on Monday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas. Sigma Beta Rho hosted “SOS Egg Smash” to beneﬁ  t their philanthropy, SOS Children’s Villages, which is dedicated to protecting the rights of children. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF counseling hotline has re-
ceived more than 40 false reports 
since a Fox News sports journalist prank-called the number, claiming to be a gay student offended by a Ha-
rambe costume.
The calls were inspired by a re-
minder in the Oct. 10 issue of the UF 
newsletter titled “Halloween Costume Choices,” which advised students who feel offended by a costume to contact the UF Counseling and Well-ness Center and U Matter, We Care. 
The reminder, published in the Gator 
Times, was also sent out last year.
“Some Halloween costumes rein-
force stereotypes of particular races, genders, cultures, or religions,” the post said. “Regardless of intent, these costumes can perpetuate negative ste-reotypes, causing harm and offense to groups of people.”
Clay Travis, the prank-calling jour-nalist, learned about the post and the 
CWC hotline from one of his readers. 
He said he wanted to make a point about how overly sensitive people have become to seemingly harmless acts or comments.
“Anyone who is offended by a 
Halloween costume is a complete and total loser deserving of ridicule and satirization,” he wrote in an email.
In an Oct. 12 livestreamed video, “LSU-Florida mess, CFB gambling 
picks,” Travis called the hotline and 
said he was a gay student who went to a fraternity’s Halloween costume party. He said he was offended by someone at the party dressed like Harambe, a gorilla who was shot in 
late May at the Cincinnati Zoo after a child fell into his enclosure.  Halloween-costume prank calls ﬂ  ood UF counseling hotline
RENOVATIONS 
COST $167,000.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
The Crisis and Emergency Re-
source Center is reopening at Pea-
body Hall on Oct. 31. 
On the fourth ﬂ  oor of Peabody, 
the center will be a home for a support program, alcohol and other drug services and a mind-
and-body lab that will help stu-
dents learn about stress manage-ment and relaxation, said Meggen Sixbey, the assistant director for UF’s Counseling and Wellness 
Center. 
The center, which has been 
under renovation since August, 
had a budget of $167,000. 
The space will continue to of-
fer on-call counselors for students in need. It will also house a peer support program, which will fo-cus on students working together 
to help their peers suffering from mental illness, she said. 
“We’re the ﬁ  rst college coun-
seling center to have a program 
like this,” Sixbey said. “It’s a 
pretty big deal.”
Renovations couldn’t begin 
until the Reitz Union construc-
tion was complete, allowing 
temporary residents in Peabody 
to move back into the Reitz, she said. While construction made it slightly more difﬁ  cult to receive service, it was manageable and 
worth the wait, she added. 
“It’s going to be a fresh look, 
which is exciting,” she said. 
Ernesto Escoto, the director of 
the CWC, said the October launch 
is a soft opening, but a grand opening will happen just before spring break. 
“It’s going to be beautiful,” he 
said. “I think our students are go-ing to love it.” 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  UF’s Crisis and Emergency 
Resource Center slated to reopen before November
THEY WANT IT TO 
BE $15 AN HOUR. 
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
On the steps of city hall, about 20 Gainesville 
residents declared that a 5-cent increase to the 
state’s minimum wage wasn’t enough.Fight for 15 Florida — an advocacy group 
funded by workers unions — and the Alach-ua County Labor Coalition gathered outside the building to speak about why the wage increase, from $8.05 to $8.10 an hour, is too small and why a $15 minimum wage should be implemented instead.
The demonstration came a day after Flor-
ida’s Department of Economic Opportunity 
announced Monday that the minimum wage would increase.
Adriel Coker, a member of Fight for 15 
Florida, spoke at the podium between signs 
reading “We Demand $15 and Union Rights” and “Exigimos $15 y una unión.” Coker said he knew many workers struggling under the $8.05 minimum wage — a struggle that 5 cents couldn’t improve.
“(The) majority of them, they couldn’t af-
ford to take care of their families,” he said. “As long as we have some of us who aren’t doing well, then none of us are doing well.” 
Coker came to Gainesville from Orlando 
with other members of the Fight for 15 group to express their concerns over what he called a negligible hike, he said.
“We heard that they were only going to 
raise the minimum wage by 5 cents,” he said. Gainesville r esidents protest 5-cent minimum-wage increaseThe Crisis and Emer-
gency Resource Center to reopen by the end of the monthSEE COSTUMES,  PAGE 4
SEE WAGE,  PAGE 4It’s because of UF’s memoSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  63°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
RUB Entertainment’s Ghouls 
and Gourds
The Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment Arts Committee 
presents a night of frighten-ing fun in the Reitz Union Arts and Crafts Center from 7 p.m. 
to 9 p.m. Wednesday. Join a 
ghoulish group and devilishly decorate your own spooky ce-ramics. Take your pick: pump-kin or skull — no tricks, just 
a hauntingly good time before Halloween. Wear your best 
Halloween costume and enjoy some free treats. Bring your friends — ghosts and witches 
welcome — and get ready for a 
night of scary fun.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to msmith@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 41
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
By Lee Ann Rufﬁ  er
Alligator Contributing Writer
A student-run blog wants to bridge the 
gap between the general public and health 
news.
Future Voices of Public Health, hosted on 
the UF Master of Public Health website, ﬁ  rst 
began in late September to promote dialogue 
between students studying public health and people outside of the ﬁ  eld, said Summer Slaughter, the director of the blog.  
“We want to present the information in 
the most simple way, but also effectively communicate the issues and problems we’re seeing in the public health ﬁ  eld,” the 23-year-old UF public health masters student said. 
She said the idea started from a conversa-
tion with her friends and then with her pro-fessor, Mark Hart. After listening to what she had in mind, Hart pitched the blog idea to 
the college, and it was approved. 
During the ﬁ  rst month, a student will post 
every week on topics ranging from vaccina-
tions to natural disasters, she said. Public health topics can be found in almost every area of study, she added.
She said she hopes students outside of the public health ﬁ  eld who are interested will submit ideas for posts through the website. 
Johanzynn Gatewood, 24, wrote the latest 
blog post, which focused on the role public health plays in preparing for emergencies. 
The UF public health masters student got 
involved with the site when Slaughter, her 
classmate, approached her with the idea. 
Gatewood said she was excited to be pub-
lished on the blog, especially because it’s a 
great way to present her ideas and thought.
“We want to bring awareness to the blog 
and get students with different perspectives sharing their own experiences,” she said.  Even though the blog isn’t equivalent to a 
peer-reviewed journal, Gatewood said it was a good way to get published. 
Casey Parker, 24, got involved after see-
ing Slaughter speak about the blog at her master’s orientation. 
The UF entomology and public health 
graduate student now works as an editor and is responsible for fact-checking and editing articles, she said. She looks for any facts that could be misleading and makes sure the ar-ticles are objective. 
“We don’t want to be biased, we just 
want to give information,” Parker said.   UF students use blog to promote public health newsIT’S A MICROFIBER 
TOWEL ATTACHED TO A 
WRISTBAND.
By Mercedes Leguizamon 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After having trouble ﬁ  nalizing 
his product, Keith Basik reached out to his friends in UF’s Warrington College of Business.
“At the time, I was a one-man 
show,” Basik said, but he said he wanted help ﬁ  guring out the last de-tails of the Flip Towel, a microﬁ  ber towel attached to a wristband.  
The Naples, Florida, resident 
began working with graduate stu-dents from the Entrepreneurial and Innovation Center at the War-rington College of Business in Janu-
ary. The team of graduate students 
worked with Basik for months, go-ing through different options for packaging and surveys. And today, Basik’s Kickstarter page, through which interested buyers can pre-order his product, launches. 
“I just wanted to bounce ideas 
— marketing ideas, branding ideas, 
product ideas — off of someone,” Basik said. “They totally redid the 
packaging.” 
Ted Astleford, the director of 
Experiential Learning Programs at UF, was able to match the gradu-ate students with Basik for a course 
he teaches called Entrepreneurship 
Consulting Project.  
“I get a bunch of people who re-
quest projects, and I organize these projects, and I coach the students through them,” Astleford said. “It’s a two-credit course that the students take.” 
Usually graduate business stu-
dents taking the course help entre-preneurs with projects, but others can get involved by reaching out to Astleford.
Basik’s product, the Flip Towel, 
was something Astleford felt his stu-dents would beneﬁ  t from working on.
“Keith’s project just seemed like 
a cool, tangible new product that you can wrap your head around and that the students can grasp and would have a good time working on it,” Astleford said.
The students were randomly 
matched with Basik depending on what their schedules permitted. “I don’t let students choose proj-
ects based on their interest, and that’s on purpose,” Astleford said. “I want students to work on something that they would never choose.” 
After meeting in January, Basik 
and the ﬁ  ve students worked togeth-er on the Flip Towel for two months. 
Basik, who originally came up 
with the idea four years ago, said he was excited to get younger minds in-volved in his project. 
Maggie Maguire, 22, who gradu-
ated from UF in May, was one of the students who helped Basik ﬁ  nalize 
the Flip Towel. 
With the other students, they 
conducted surveys to see how the 
public would react to the product. The surveys were used to decide which age groups would be more likely to purchase the Flip Towel. They also used the surveys to deter-mine which activities people would 
be more inclined to use the product 
for.
“It was all online,” Maguire said. 
“We put it on all of UF’s different Facebook groups.” 
The data found in these surveys 
was then used to ﬁ  nalize the prod-uct, including the size of the towel and the color.
The students were able to help 
Basik ﬁ  nalize his product and even help with the branding of the prod-uct on social media. 
Maguire said she enjoyed col-laborating with other students on Basik’s product.
“It was all a really cool expe-
rience for me,” she said. “A lot of people don’t realize how unique that class is.” 
UF business students help entrepreneur complete towel project
Courtesy to the Alligator
The  creator of Flip T owel, Keith Basik, poses for a photo with his product. 
The Naples, Florida, resident reached out to the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Center at UF’s Warrington College of Business to help ﬁ  nalize his product.
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville teenager was arrest -
ed Monday for shooting a 15-year-old 
in the face, Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies said.
At about 8 p.m. Sunday night, 
Austin Gregory Dow, 17, sat in a black 
Honda sedan when he shot the boy, 
leaving a nonfatal gunshot wound on his face and several bullet holes in his van, said sheriff’s office spokesman Art Forgey.
Alachua County Fire Rescue work
-
ers treated the boy and took him to UF Health Shands Hospital, where he remains in stable condition, Forgey said.
Deputies with the ACSO Patrol Op
-
erations Division and detectives with the Criminal Investigations Division were able to later identify Dow and get a warrant for his arrest, according to a press release issued Monday by the sheriff’s office.
Shortly before 6 a.m. Monday, 
members of the ACSO SWAT team arrested Dow at his home in the Val
-
wood Subdivision near Haile Planta -
tion, according to the release.
Detectives are currently working 
on figuring out why Dow shot the boy, Forgey said. He said there was some sort of disturbance between the 
two.
Deputies arrested Dow on three 
counts of attempted second-degree 
murder, according to the release. Dow was taken to the Alachua Regional Ju
-
venile Detention Center, and a judge will decide Tuesday whether he will be tried as a minor or as an adult.
Dow is currently being held on a 
$450,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgACSO: 15-year-old shot 
in face by another teen                   By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
For her work in community policing, a 
Gainesville Police sergeant received an award 
this month from U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, GPD announced in a media release Mon
-
day.
Sgt. Audrey Mazzuca 
was one of three law enforce -
ment officers to receive the Attorney General’s Award 
for Distinguished Service in Community Policing in the Innovations in Community Policing category on Oct. 6 in Washington, D.C.
During her 19 years at 
GPD, Mazzuca said she’s always been passion
-
ate about pro-active, compassion-centered law enforcement. About three years ago, she was asked to join the Disproportionate Minority Con
-
tact Initiative, which aims to reduce the number of black youths arrested.
As part of the initiative, Mazzuca began the 
monthly Police Youth Dialogue with retired GPD Capt. Will Halvosa and Jeffrey Weisberg from 
the River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding. During the meetings, which started about three 
years ago, about 12 officers meet one-on-one 
with local at-risk youth.
There, the officers eat dinner with the par
-
ticipants, spending an hour talking. Sometimes 
they discuss stereotypes, issues the kids face and how the police can improve relationships with the community, she said.
“We’re actually reaching out to kids that 
have been kind of labeled too-far-gone or at-risk,” she said.
So far, about 200 officers and 180 children 
have participated in the program, she said.
In the process, officers have built relation
-
ships with those students, Mazzuca said. She’s also encouraged officers to give student offend
-
ers counseling and life-skills training instead of arresting them, which has led to a 79-percent decline in on-campus arrests, according to the release. 
Calling herself a behind-the-scenes worker, 
Mazzuca said she felt humbled and motivated when her colleagues at GPD nominated her.
“I hope to earn another one,” she said. 
“We’re still working. We’re still working hard.” 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgAttorney general honors GPD 
sergeant for community policing
By Melanie Mueller
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After moving out of the Reitz Union, fewer 
students are using UF’s outdoor gear rental 
program.
Now with its own building behind South -
west Recreation Center, not as many people pass by the Center for Outdoor Recreation and Education’s as they did when the program was located in the Reitz, said Hannah Brock, the CORE program assistant. The center held a 
grand opening Sept. 16.
“It’s not as busy as we’d like it to be,” 
Brock said. “When you are located behind Southwest Rec, you don’t really have the same 
sort of foot traffic that you would at the Re
-
itz Union, so it’s been a challenge getting the word out there about CORE and what we offer exactly.” 
The center offers a rental program for out
-
door gear, guided trips, custom trips, work -
shops and other resources to UF students, she said.
Courtney Kramer, 21, spent one weekend 
earlier this month climbing a cliff on Yonah Mountain in Georgia. She rented size-9 climb
-
ing shoes for $5 from the center after she heard about the rental program through the UF Out -
door Adventure Recreation Facebook group. 
“Going into the CORE facility, the staff was 
exceptionally helpful,” the UF environmental geosciences sophomore said. 
To promote the new location, CORE is 
reaching out to students on social media plat
-
forms including Instagram, Facebook, Snap -
chat and Twitter, said Jackie Matthews, the CORE coordinator. Students driving by the building on Bledsoe Drive will also see camp
-
ing gear displayed outside to entice students to come in.
“We really want to invite as many people 
to come into the warehouse because it’s such a cool space,” Matthews said. 
Matthews said she hopes to reach more 
students through word of mouth. Some of her plans for the program in the future include partnering with UF’s Department of Emergen
-
cy Medicine for workshops and planning new trips for the Spring semester.
Catherine Cramp, the RecSports senior as
-
sociate director, said she hopes to get student feedback on how to improve the center. 
“Send us trips that you want to do,” she 
said. “It does not just have to be an outdoor trip; it can be a fun adventure trip.”UF’s Center for Outdoor Recreation 
sees fewer rentals at new location
“I really felt like it was an insult.”
Other speakers and attendees included Alachua 
County Commissioner Ken Cornell, Alachua Coun-ty School Board member Eileen Roy and Marihelen Wheeler, who is running for the Florida House of Rep-resentatives District 21 seat. Wheeler, a former teacher, said her support for a $15 minimum wage is rooted in her desire to help children being raised in poverty.
“They are neglected in this whole formula because 
their basic needs are not being met,” she said. Raising the minimum wage, she said, “would bring their fami-lies out of poverty.”The Alachua County Labor Coalition wants to im-
plement a minimum wage close to $15 an hour over the course of the next five years, according to Alligator ar-chives. Jeremiah Tattersall, a member of the coalition, said the current minimum wage disproportionately af-
fects minority communities.
“It’s not a mistake that these workers tend to be 
people of color, queer workers, transgender workers: 
our immigrant brothers and sisters,” he said. “All work matters, and all workers deserve a living wage.”
But if workers have to maintain multiple jobs, then 
the current minimum wage sets a negative connotation for the types of jobs they’re holding, he said.
“It says that their work doesn’t matter,” Tattersall 
said.WAGE,  from pg. 1“I really felt like it was an insult”
Travis also gave out the CWC’s 
phone number to his live audience. He already made headlines earlier this month for his criticism of the can-cellation of the Oct. 8 game against 
LSU, alleging impending Hurricane 
Matthew was used as an excuse to avoid losing to a superior team. 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said the prank calls have burdened UF’s counseling services. The hotline, a free service available every day of the year, is not exclusively for cos-tume complaints, and students with 
mental health concerns or issues also 
use the hotline.
“Our role is to support students,” 
Sikes said, “and when we are divert-ed to having to deal with people call-ing in fake reports, we aren’t there to 
help our students.”
She said UF would not ban any 
students’ costume choices, and the re-
minder was just to let students know resources are available if needed. 
“The university in no way is regu-
lating Halloween costumes,” Sikes said. “Our students are free to wear whatever costumes they want.” 
Jen Day Shaw, the UF associate 
vice president and dean of students, wrote in an email that the post was meant to be a suggestion to students.
“It was simply a reminder to stu-
dents to consider their choices when it comes to Halloween costumes to best represent themselves and UF,” Shaw said.COSTUMES,  from pg. 1He gave out the phone number
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator
Eddie Suggs speaks at a press conference held by the advocacy groups Fight for 15 Florida and the 
Alachua County Labor Coalition in response to Florida’s minimum wage increase from $8.05 to $8.10 per hour. “A 5-cent-an-hour wage is not enough, ” he said. “It’s an insult. ”
Mazzuca
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
VENEZUELAN FUN AND GAMES
Sister Ana, a 29-year-old campus ministry assistant for St. 
Augustine Church in Midtown, plays the board game Candy Land with Catholic Gators, who partnered with the Venezuelan Student Association for a game night and donation potluck on Monday for Venezuelans in need of food and other supplies.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
DOUGHNUTS FUR PETS
From left: Members of UF’s Delta Sigma Pi pledge class, a co-ed professional business fraternity, Sydnie Coraggio, 18, a UF business administration-management freshman; Sharon Chan, 18, a UF information systems freshman; and Ana Arnillas, 18, a UF finance freshman, raise money for the Humane Society by selling Krispy Kreme doughnuts. They have a goal of raising $9,500 and have already raised $2,000.
By Stefano Ferreyros
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are among the first 
in the state to have access to a new app that makes dining out cheaper.
The app, TasteBud, which 
launched in mid-August, gives dis-counts of up to 50 percent off for select off-campus restaurants. The discounts change throughout the day based on time, supply and de-mand. 
The app links to a Visa card and, 
after paying, refunds the discounted amount back to the card, said Cath-erine Rakkar, the sales and market-ing representative for TasteBud. Discounts on the app can only be used with Visa cards.
By the end of Spring semester, 
she said, UF students will be able to use more types of cards to pay.
TasteBud is also available at the 
University of Texas at Austin, Texas Agricultural and Mechanical Uni-versity, the University of Missouri and Oregon State University.
“We look for schools with a 
close sense of community,” Rakkar 
said. “This is why we chose UF.” 
TasteBud’s discounts apply 
across the menu, she said. Students 
can also invite friends to eat and get 
a larger discount through the app’s 
“party mode.”
“We feel that college students 
want the freedom of choice, which they have with our app,” Rakkar 
said.
Michelle Ospina, a UF industrial 
and systems engineering sopho-more, uses the app’s give $5, get $5 
program where a person can get a 
$5 credit by referring the app to a 
friend. 
“Since I’m an RA, I have given 
it to a few of my residents, and I’ve gotten money,” the 19-year-old 
said. “I got free Chipotle yesterday.”TasteBud app gives discounts 
for restaurants near campus
Stefano Ferreyros / Alligator
Michelle Ospina, 19, uses the T asteBud app to find nearby 
discounts. The app, which launched in mid-August, offers discounts that change throughout the day based on time, supply and demand.
IT IS PART OF THEIR  
FIRST US TOUR. 
By Matthew Gorwitz
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A band from Algeria is perform-
ing Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at the University Auditorium for their first concert in Florida.Student tickets for Ifrikya Spirit 
are $10, Elizabeth Auer, the as-sistant director for UF Perform-ing Arts, wrote in an email. She said the department is hosting the group through Center Stage, a pub-lic diplomacy initiative of the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. 
The program creates a cultural dialogue with artists from other countries by bringing them for mu-sic tours in the U.S. and exposing them to a different audience, Auer said. 
“I was actually part of the group 
who traveled to Algeria in April 2015 to meet, interview, and select artists to participate in the pro-gram,” Auer said. When she visited Algeria and 
heard Ifrikya Spirit perform, the traditional diwan sounds and Alge-rian instruments created a modern jazz sound, she said, adding that the group’s passion came out in their performances.
Lisa Booth, of Lisa Booth Man-
agement Group, which represents Center Stage, said the group’s tour is the first time they will be in the U.S. 
Booth said UF chose the band 
because of how they represent both traditional and contemporary forms of Algerian music.
“The school is so diverse, and 
there is always a good turn out when a Center Stage performance comes to Gainesville,” she said. 
Algerian band bringing international sounds to campusPLACES YOU CAN 
USE TASTEBUD
• Bento Cafe
• Crane Ramen
• Copper Monkey
• The Social at Midtown
• Domino’s Pizza
• Mi Apa Latin Cafe of GainesvilleThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Spielberg wrote 
the revolution
In Steven Spielberg’s classic “Minority Report,” three mutants 
predict murders before they happen. In a futuristic Washing-ton, D.C., a special division of police are responsible for stop-ping and apprehending murderers before they even commit the act. If you haven’t seen it, and have two hours and 26 
minutes to burn sometime in the very near future, do yourself a favor and watch it.
Philosophically, the overarching theme of the movie is a de-
bate many of us have had: free will versus determinism. The movie implies the future is set in stone. Characters in the movie clearly and vividly observe the future, which predicts murders around futuristic D.C. It seems, then, that characters’ destinies are already paved. But there was that one conversation between Agatha and Anderton during which she reminds him that be-
cause he is aware of his future, he can change it.
We ﬁ  nd a wonky paradox here. Our fates are, in fact, prede-
termined, but awareness can lead this determinism to be false.  
It’s been free will all along, but it isn’t really free will in the ﬁ  rst place, because the future is predetermined. When accused of pre-murder, protagonist Anderton ﬂ  ees arrest and, through a series of events, is forced to kill in order to survive. Had the accusation not occurred in the ﬁ  rst place, Anderton never would have had to ﬂ  ee arrest and subsequently kill. Essentially, it’s a self-fulﬁ  lling 
prophecy: A metaphysical conundrum, if you will.
The movie asks another philosophical question, steering to-
ward moral psychology. Witwer says the main “legalistic draw-
back” is that it “arrests individuals who have broken no laws.” Obviously it’s wrong to arrest someone who has not committed a crime, but is it wrong to arrest someone who most likely will commit a crime? As Anderton notes in the movie, “The fact that you prevented it from happening doesn’t change the fact that it was going to happen.”
These two questions — that of free will and determinism, 
along with that of incarceration of non-offenders — are not new,  by any means, but “Minority Report” has new things to say about them. With the horriﬁ  c events of 9/11 less than a year prior to the movie’s release, and new legislation coming out on things regard-ing mass public surveillance and national security, this movie came out right on time. It confronts its audience with a not-so-distant world — it takes place in only 2054 — where Americans have sacriﬁ  ced liberties and rights like privacy and due process in 
exchange for a society where the murder rate is essentially zero.
In the movie, a person sits behind a computer screen and eval-
uates evidence that has yet to even exist. They then immediately 
start getting their case ready for arrest, prosecution, judgment and sentence. They are accused without being present, tried without a defense and convicted before they know they’re in trial.
This is not paradise. This future looks and feels incredibly dys-
topian. While we rejoice at the fact that the murder rate is drasti-cally low, we still cringe at the fact that these “pre-murderers” 
are more or less found guilty and sentenced without a defense for 
crimes they didn’t commit.
Right now, our political landscape is the most fragile it’s ever 
been in the youthful collective memory of UF’s Student Body. The upcoming presidential election has brought out the worst in some of us. Questions of how to best protect ourselves in trou-bling times really should be asked, and movies like “Minority Report” remind us that some answers come at great social cost. Moreover, some answers require us to sacriﬁ  ce rights and privi-
leges that are quintessentially American. With the third presiden-
tial debate coming up Wednesday, we hope you all pay attention and critically evaluate both parties’ candidates in every regard, keeping in mind that the extremely complex nature of the politi-cal questions they try to answer.A critique of critical comedy: self-deprecation
Self-deprecating humor is pretty com-
monplace. It’s easy to pull off, and no one can be offended, because you’re only disparaging yourself. It’s a great 
way to look humble and witty at the 
same time, and a self-deprecating joke makes 
everyone around you feel that much better about themselves. This style of humor is a use-ful tool, certainly. But, like I said, it’s pretty commonplace. People have a knack for selling themselves short, because doing the opposite makes them look arrogant. And there are a fair number of societal norms that ask us to think poorly of ourselves, including social media and beauty standards. We’re all 
pretty much in agreement, though, that being humble is 
more noble than being boastful, right? I like to think so. It’s just the polite thing to do, really. When it comes to comedy, though, self-deprecation gets tricky.
Self-deprecating humor is the safest form of humor. 
The only target is the person who made the joke; that’s simple enough. And a fair number of professional come-dians use self-deprecation to their advantage. Rodney 
Dangerﬁ  eld discusses his misfortunes and plays the victim 
to craft this hilariously frustrated and desperate charac-
ter. In his movies, Woody Allen pairs his self-deprecating 
humor with a superiority complex, which creates ambigu-ity in how he actually feels about himself. Louis C.K. self-deprecates and equates his ﬂ  aws with society’s to make a statement. These three comedians use this style of hu-mor to make a point; it’s a tool in their toolbox. How-ever, in all three cases, these comedians are performing as characters; the self-deprecation is not necessarily a reﬂ  ec-
tion of the artist. In our day-to-day lives, however, we 
don’t play characters. So, instead, all of this self-deprecat-ing humor comes from a place of truth. Let’s talk about that.
We laugh harder at the people we like more. This is 
why, despite how funny, talented and attractive I am, no one laughs at me. I mean, they laugh at me, but it’s usually behind my back, and I don’t hear about it until they accidentally send me a Facebook group message saying  — you get the 
point. That being said, we also tend to like peo-
ple who are more humble and more grateful. That’s a given. Slap these two ideas together, and we get a feedback loop that encourages self-deprecating humor. The more you sell yourself short, the more people will appreciate your hu-mility and the harder they’ll laugh. But, like I 
said, these jokes come from a place of truth. A joke about how weak and lanky you are wouldn’t be funny if you weren’t actually, to some extent, weak and lanky. When 
you make these jokes, you’re leaving yourself pretty vul-
nerable to criticism; as a result, people appreciate the joke that much more. The feedback loop strengthens.
The odd reward system that develops essentially asks 
you to think less of yourself and to continue to sell your-self short to other people. While it’s great to keep your ego in check, it’s also way too easy for this feedback loop to spiral into something harmful. Even when the jokes are a 
bit exaggerated, the repetition and the positive reception 
to that exaggeration encourages you to adopt that exagger-
ated point of view. It’s pretty toxic.
Take care in the kinds of jokes you make. In the wake 
of this whole Halloween costume hullabaloo, it’s impor-
tant to consider your audience when you select your cos-tume. At the same time, think about how you’re treating yourself when you make jokes. Comedy is a very powerful tool, and it’s often used to spread hate. That hate not only extends toward others, but toward yourself as well.
I have 33 words to kill as of this word. What are y’all 
going to be for Halloween? I want to be Mettaton from “Undertale,” but that seems like a lot of work. I don’t have that kind of time, you know? I’m a busy bee.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineering junior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Quite a few things happened this past 
week that have forced me to reﬂ  ect on the dichotomy of high and low culture. Perhaps you’ve already heard of the ﬁ  rst event: Bob Dylan 
winning the Nobel Prize in Literature, and thus becoming the ﬁ  rst musician to do so. As an unapologetically devoted fan of both music and the written word, it goes without saying that I was thrilled to see Dylan join the ranks of Toni Morrison, Gabriel García Márquez and Samuel Beckett. Unfortunately, countless academics, authors and journalists vehemently disagreed with my opinion, cit-ing a variety of reasons but often reaching the same conclusion: Songwriting simply cannot reach the level of artistic achieve-ment pure literature can.
This division between high and low art 
has permeated societal notions of art’s func-
tion for centuries. To boil it down to one sen-tence: Low art entertains, and high art makes you think. We’re all aware there’s a difference between reading a comic book and “Ulysses,” but we often accept the distinction with-out any further thought. In reality, 
the rule that states form dictates 
artistic value doesn’t hold much water. I’ve read some achingly beautiful comics that changed my outlook on life, and I’ve also read some god-awful poems.
Yet, for some reason, these in-
grained cultural notions are hard to shake, and we see that not only in the responses 
to Bob Dylan’s Nobel Prize, but also in our 
daily lives. When my friends christened me the go-to source for pop culture informa-tion, I couldn’t help but think that perhaps my brain would be better utilized retaining something a bit more philosophical. When I tell friends and acquaintances I’m taking an honors seminar on comics and graphic novels, I inevitably feel slightly less accom-plished than if I said it was on Foucauldian poetics. Yet despite the perceived prevalence of pre-tension in higher education, it is the academics that have success-
fully shrunk the gap between low 
and high culture.
There’s a reason college cours-
es like “Politicizing Beyonce” at Rutgers, “California Here We Come: The O.C. and Self-Aware Culture of 21st Century America” 
at Duke and “Philosophy and Star Trek” at Georgetown have popped up on college cam-
puses. The reason is that there must be some 
sort of academic potential lurking behind the façade of mindless entertainment many of us connect to through television, music, comics and other low art forms.
I started watching “Buffy the Vampire 
Slayer” last year because my English profes-sor gushed about its endless academic poten-tial. Honestly, I watched all 144 episodes not because it was philosophical, but because it was entertaining. But when I discovered an entire academic journal devoted to the show (I’m serious, it’s called “Slayage”), all of the connections made between the show and 
gender identity, postmodern adolescence 
and female resilience made that much more sense.
Over the past few decades, the division 
between high and low culture has slowly be-gun to close. The amount of time that must pass before low art transforms into high art has additionally shrunk, resulting in an abundance of exciting contemporary source 
material. 
To clarify, I’m not saying that watching 
an episode of “Keeping Up With the Kar-
dashians,” listening to "The Life of Pablo" and reading Ta-Nehisi Coates are all one and the same, but they can all be richly imbued with meaning, intended or otherwise.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
It’s time to get rid of the division between high culture and low cultureColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
One of the most common freshman mistakes is being in classes from noon straight until 3 p.m.
Why? Hare Krishna.With a mandatory $5 donation — 
see what I did there — this organization has been steadily providing one of the few sourc-es of vegan and vegetarian lunch on campus. Even better: It’s all you can eat.
When I am ﬁ  nally able to look back and 
reminisce about college, I know that the Pla-za of the Americas and a scoop of halava will be present in many of those memories, which is cute.
What’s not cute is that I have neglected to 
learn about Hinduism from these people who practice it.
Aparna Sethumadhavan, a Gatorship as-
sistant director and biochemistry and wom-en’s studies double major, is one of the people I should have deferred to. This junior, who identiﬁ  es as Hindu, believes this is her space, and what she sees in Hare Krishna is 
problematic.
So let her hit you with some facts.
“Hare Krishna pushes one form of Hindu-
ism — one that has been extremely white-washed. It encourages its members to con-vert others to Hinduism, while the Hinduism that most Indians practice does not allow for conversion,” Sethumadhavan said.
“They only worship one god, 
when a basic part of Hinduism is being able to see a higher spiri-tual power in every part of your 
life,” she said. “They even think 
that other Hindus are not worthy of their time. They exclude people and are condescending towards other religions, all of which goes against the basic tenets of Hindu-ism.”
If you are someone who only comes for 
lunch, this may be something you don’t re-
ally care to know. You’re probably thinking, 
“I’m just here for the salad and that bomb dressing, but that isn’t even Indian food.”
For Hindus like Sethumadhavan, what the 
Hare Krishnas are practicing is not true Hin-duism.
With this much discrepancy, it’s no sur-
prise there’s a few things Sethumadhavan would like the Hare Krishnas to know.
“Hinduism is not extreme; it is not orga-
nized. It is about practicing love and accep-tance, about learning how to be a better hu-man,” she said. “It’s about ﬁ  nding a spiritual connection to the world around you. What you are practicing is not true Hinduism.”
Each of the few times these people serving lunch have tried tricking me into buying their book, their message has been different. If that makes me feel concerned and lied to, imagine how that makes people 
like Sethumadhavan feel, whose 
religion is being improperly repre-sented to a whole campus.
“It makes me sad that Hare 
Krishna is so many people’s intro-duction to Hinduism,” Sethumad-havan said. “There is a lot more to 
my religion that is lost when it is taught by members of Hare Krishna. It also makes me 
really angry to see my culture so badly ap-
propriated and misinterpreted.”
By this point, you’re probably sad be-
cause you’re thinking now you have to ﬁ  nd a new lunch spot. If that is true, there is not enough time in the day for me to tell you what’s wrong with the fact that you’re wor-rying about yourself instead of a whole entire group of people who feel misinterpreted.
Instead, I’ll just let you know it’s OK to eat 
the food. That’s not the point. Eat it, y’all. It’s good for vegans and vegetarians. But please recognize that, when they are handing you a plate, they’re doing it to represent more than just good, cheap food.
So it’s okay to get hyped for spaghetti Wednesdays. What you should not do is overlook how Hare Krishna only highlights one aspect of Hinduism in a very minimal way, because some people miss the fact the Hare Krishna is even supposed to be a form 
of Hinduism at all.
“The idea of Hinduism as a religion was 
created by the British. Until then, it was seen 
as a spiritual practice and a way of life,” Sethumadhavan said. “Hare Krishna takes this cultural imperialism one step farther by twisting Hinduism so that it ﬁ  ts into modern ideas of what religion should entail without giving a thought to the thousands of years of 
history behind Hinduism.”
So there. Think of how much more you can 
appreciate Krishna Lunch when you know 
the message it is truly supposed to send. I have never seen Indian people involved in Hare Krishna — although that doesn’t mean they boycott Krishna — but the thought of it puts a bad taste in my mouth.
I know that may not be enough motiva-
tion, but I’m just not OK appropriating the as-pects of someone else’s culture that are con-venient. I’m not OK with reducing a whole religion to one plate. Are you?
Brooke Henderson is a second year jour-
nalism and international studies student. 
Her columns usually appear on Mondays.
Krishna lunch: Hinduism is more than spaghetti Wednesdays and halavaColumn
Brooke
Henderson
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
Kevin Doan, a 21-year-old UF real estate masters student, jumps over a rope made of rubber bands. 
“Chan-Angkarn, ” or “Monday-Tuesday, ” is a traditional game originally from Thailand.
A few origami hanboks sit in front of the Korean Undergraduate Student Association’s display. Han-boks are traditional Korean clothing.
Yong Zheng, a 19-year-old UF digital arts and sciences sophomore, represents the Chinese American Student Association at this year’s Asian Kaleidoscope Month Food Festival.
Members of different student organizations serve food to guests of the Asian Kaleidoscope Month Food Festival. T en different organizations brought traditional dishes.
From left: Christin Barno, a 19-year-old UF international studies sophomore; Mikaela Libunao, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore; and Krista Grajo, a 19-year-old UF psychology sophomore, serve food at the Asian Kaleidoscope Month Food Festival.
Photos by Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Many cultural organizations on campus came together on Monday night as part of an annual food festival hosted by  Asian Kaleidoscope Month. This month is designed to celebrate Asian-American culture at UF. The different groups served traditional dishes such as chicken tikka masala, mi xiao, pad thai and teriyaki chicken for free in UF’s Florida Gym. Students had the option of playing traditional games to win larger portions of the dishes.HUNGRY FOR 
CULTURETUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
IFAS warns of screwworm dangers in Florida
An outbreak of the New World screwworm ﬂ  y, or Co-
chliomyia hominivorax, could affect thousands of Florida 
agricultural producers, livestock producers and pet own-ers, according to UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences. 
The ﬂ  y has only been found in Big Pine Key and No 
Name Key, said Phillip Kaufman, a UF associate professor of Veterinary Entomology.
Kaufman said he thinks the insect most likely came 
through a person or animal from an infested country. The ﬂ  ies enter a wound on a living animal, fall out later and spread to different hosts. He said the pest was in the U.S. until it was eradicated in the 1950s. 
IFAS has been sending out information on the ﬂ  y to 
Florida livestock owners, pet owners and the public.
The easiest way to prevent its spread is by checking for 
pests on animals, he said. A veterinarian can easily remove the maggot.
“If you notice a wound that isn’t healing, go in and see 
your veterinarian,” he said. “Don’t wait. It’s better to get this taken care of as early as possible.”
- Bailey LeFeverIFAS strawberry variety sweeter, more durable 
A two-year study on UF’s Institute of Food and Agricul-
tural Sciences’ strawberries has found they have a longer shelf life and are sweeter than two other IFAS varieties. 
Vance Whitaker is a UF associate professor of horticul-
tural sciences and a strawberry breeder at the UF/IFAS Gulf 
Coast Research and Education Center in Balm, Florida. He 
said the IFAS-bred strawberries have 20 percent more sugar and a longer shelf life than the other two strawberry variet-ies grown side-by-side in Plant City during the 2015 and 2016 growing seasons.
The two qualities make the strawberries more attractive 
for consumers, he said of the study published earlier this month. During the study, researchers compared one type of IFAS-bred strawberry to the other two types: Florida Radi-
ance and Strawberry Festival.
Whitaker said scientists measured the attributes of the 
strawberries before and after they were placed in cold con-
ditions. The newest strawberry, called Florida127, main-tained a brighter color in the cold storage and was sweeter. 
“We do not know what biological factors contribute to 
the differences, but we breed for the traits,” he said.
- Rosanne RamrajUF researcher finds hormone that sheds fat
A UF researcher announced new ﬁ  ndings in August that 
suggest exercising releases a hormone that not only sheds fat, but also prevents it from forming.
Dr. Li-Jun Yang, a professor of hematopathology in the 
UF College of Medicine’s Department of Pathology, Immu-
nology and Laboratory Medicine, published a three-year-
long study on the hormone Irisin and how it reacts with fatty tissue and cells. Yang and her team of researchers collected fat cells donated by 28 patients who underwent breast reduction surgery. 
They then exposed the cells to Irisin, ﬁ  nding that the 
hormone increased the production of the protein UCP1, which helps shed fat. The hormone also reduced the num-ber of mature fat cells in the tissue by 20 to 60 percent. 
“This is very exciting in the ﬁ  eld of obesity and Type 2 
diabetes,” Yang said.
It’s possible the hormone’s beneﬁ  cial properties could 
be used to create a prescription medication to help with weight problems, but it could take years. 
“You can just exercise,” Yang said. “Your body will re-
lease your own Irisin.”
- Dylan DixonTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-21-16-17-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
11-15-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
STAINLESS STEEL KEGERATOR
Like new condition, complete with manual, 
gas tank & gauges. $350 firm cash. Call 352-
591-2323    10-19-16-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosTUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
PT cleaner needed ASAP for homes, apart-ments, & offices. Weekly pay/8.50 hr; Must have/use own transportation. If interested please call 352-214-0868; gas paid for driving to numerous places in a shift....10-18-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-18-16-5-14P/T front desk receptionist for dental office in Haile Plantation in Gainesville. Afternoon and evening hours. $12-16 per hour. Send CV to gdentaljob@gmail.com. No phone calls please.              10-18-16-3-14
CLINICAL RESEARCH INTERNSNeeded pre-med & medical students.
 
Contact Dr Shah Rahimian 814-691-7377    10-24-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 With 66-Across,
crisp serving with
pâté
6 Gush forth
10 Australian gem
14 Mountains
between Europeand Asia
15 Singer Guthrie16 Bring on board,
workwise
17 Enjoy to the max18 Mug for the
camera
20 Govt. assistance
program
21 “Holy smokes!”22 Hot spot23 Pitch in27 Battery post29 Aggressive poker
words
30 Some iTunes
downloads,
briefly
32 Queen __
33 Road problem
needingpatching
36 Catcher’s
protection
37 Do the slightest
thing
39 Aware of41 Voice of Carl
Fredricksen in“Up”
42 “What’s up, __?”43 iPhone, e.g.,
briefly
44 HOW THIS IS
TYPED
48 Shoulder wrap50 What the winning
quarterback may
do as time runsout
53 Contemptible sort
55 Prosecutors, for
short
56 Seine season
57 Theatrical “Good
luck!”
59 “Really, bro?!”61 Was sorry for62 Grand soirée63 Super Bowl party
bowlful
64 Chianti and
cabernet
65 Paradise
66 See 1-AcrossDOWN
1 Granola kin
2 Error remover
3 Rita Moreno or
Gloria Estefan
4 __-ray Disc5 Snake that bit
Cleopatra
6 South Pacific
island nation
7 Shrimp kin8 Fraternal club
member
9 Misfortunes
10 “Terrific ... not!”11 Lounge with
keyboard music
12 Video game spots13 Dixie general19 Remote batteries21 Stimulated, as
one’s appetite
24 Scoop up, as
salsa with a chip
25 Starting on26 Meat markets
28 Cry of fright
31 Cents
34 Attacked
35 All __ sudden
36 Pfizer rival37 Plant that is
poisonous tolivestock38 Rowlands of “The
Notebook”
39 Crooks may have
fake ones
40 “You lie!”
43 Company car,
e.g.
45 Lack of vim and
vigor
46 Colorful flower
parts
47 “Caught that
movie last week”49 Detectives follow
them
51 Singer with the
albums “19,” “21”and “25”
52 Sotomayor
colleague
54 Senate aide
57 “I’m freezing!”58 Young fellow
59 Fake it
60 “__ goes 
there?”
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/18/1610/18/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 18, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestGet the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sports
Quincy Wilson and Jalen T abor 
have made the most headlines 
this season, but are they worthy 
of being named midseason MVPs? Find out in our roundtable 
discussion, pg. 14Pair of volleyball players recognized
Setter Allie Monserez won Southeastern Conference Player of the week 
while middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan won SEC Defensive Player of the Week, the league announced Monday. Both players picked up double-doubles in the team's last match. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer 
Feet spread shoulder-width 
apart. Three bounces. Arms 
hung down. Knees bent. Cock the wrists. Fling up and follow through. 
This is how NBA Hall-of-
Famer Rick Barry shot his free throws. Granny style.
And while it may seem goofy, 
by the time Barry retired in 1980, he had the best free-throw per
-
centage in NBA history.
His son, Canyon Barry, a grad -
uate transfer in his first year with the Gators, is following in his fa
-
ther’s’ footsteps.
It’s an unusual solution, but 
Florida has an unusual free-throw problem. 
Of 346 Division I teams, 322 
finished last season with a better free-throw percentage than the Gators. 
And it’s a problem UF coach 
Mike White said there’s no imme
-
diate solution to. 
“I just don’t think we’re go -
ing to make a huge jump in (free throws or three pointers),” White said on media day. 
“I know we were 14th (in the 
SEC) at the foul line, and I don’t 
think we’re going to jump to first. 
“But I think we can make a pretty good jump in both areas. I’d be surprised if we weren’t a little closer toward the middle of the pack.”
SEC stats show Florida fin
-
ished 12th of 14 teams last sea -
son, but that’s probably not enough to ease White's concerns. 
The problem starts at the top. Florida’s two returning play
-
ers who shot the most free throws last season were center John Eg -
bunu and point guard Kasey Hill. And not many Gators shot free throws worse than they did. Eg
-
bunu’s 53.2-percent and Hill’s 53.8-percent rates hurt Florida’s offense and have been a topic of discussion throughout the offsea
-
son. 
White said Hill reinvented his 
shooting stroke over the summer to improve his numbers. 
“We’d like to think the work 
he’s put in will pay off in terms of his percentage going up a little bit to try to help this team, to 
try to help himself,” White said. 
“And he’s shooting it well from the foul line in practice as well with our pressure free-throw shooting drills.”
But it’s not just the stars. The 
effort to ingrain free throws into players has become team-wide.Redshirt freshman Keith Stone 
cited White’s rule in practice: You have to make 80 percent of your free throws or the whole 
team runs. 
After sitting out a year, Stone 
said he’s doing everything he can 
to make sure he can watch his first free throw go in. Florida basketball confronts free-throw woes
UF had SEC 's 12th-worst FT percentage
WOMEN'S TENNIS
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
All that could be heard at the 
Alfred A. Ring Tennis Complex 
on Thursday afternoon was the 
rhythmic sound of a tennis ball slapping the court. Eventually, it was broken by 
the voice of UF women’s coach Roland Thornqvist giving pointers 
to All-American Brooke Austin.
It was 10 minutes before the 
beginning of practice, and Austin was already sweating.
“It’s the Florida way,” Thorn-qvist said. 
“They know the life of a Florida 
tennis player is not to go to school, to two hours of practice in the af-
ternoon and go home … You need to hit extra, you need to come get 
serves when nobody is watching. 
It’s just the way it is.”It’s a work ethic the Florida 
tennis team embraces, and Thorn-qvist can’t help but notice the im-
provements each player has exhib-
ited. They were especially evident at the ITA Women’s All-American 
Championships.
Junior Anna Danilina won three rounds in prequalifying to 
reach the main draw.
And senior Kourtney Keegan, 
in her last go-around at the All-Americans, beat No. 2-ranked Lu-isa Stefani 6-3, 6-3, a win Thorn-
qvist believes is perhaps the best Thornqvist, Gators seeing improvement after Fall matchesAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Mike White speaks at Florida's Media Day on Oct. 6. White hopes Florida, which finished 12th in free-throw percentage in the Southeastern 
Conference last season, will improve from the foul line this year.
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 1614   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
ROUNDTABLE
Alligator Staff
The Florida football team heads 
into its bye week with a 5-1 record 
and a comfortable resting spot atop the Southeastern Conference East Division. 
The Gators control the rest of 
their season. As long as they win the remainder of their games, they’ll have a guaranteed spot in the SEC 
Championship Game come Decem-
ber. But which player has been the 
main reason for UF’s success? 
Football writers Patrick Pinak, 
Jordan McPherson, Ian Cohen and 
Ethan Bauer debate who should 
take home Florida’s midseason MVP award.
Patrick: Quincy Tabor
Or Jalen Wilson.Choosing between Jalen Tabor 
and Quincy Wilson for UF’s first-half MVP is a lot like picking be-tween crunchy and creamy peanut butter at the supermarket.
You can’t go wrong.
The pair of cornerbacks has 
been arguably the best in college 
football and leads all Southeastern 
Conference defensive back duos 
with seven interceptions.
Two of those, pick sixes in Flor-
ida’s 40-14 win over Missouri on Saturday, may have put the coun-try on notice and furthered first-round draft pick discussions. 
But intercepting opposing quar-
terbacks isn’t all this tandem has done well.
Tabor and Wilson are true shut-
down corners who have blanketed wide receivers all season.
Consider this stat via Pro Foot-
ball Focus: Pitted against SEC pass-
ing leader Drew Lock, the Gators 
surrendered just two completions on passes that traveled beyond the 
Missouri line of scrimmage.
The driving force behind that? 
Tabor and Wilson.
The two feed off each other and 
have often said that when one nabs a pick, the other wants to one-up 
him. That competitive nature has helped lead Florida to allow a con-ference-best 132.8 passing yards per game.
And while teams will likely 
start picking on nickel corner Duke Dawson more, they’ll still have to throw out wide every so often.
UF coach Jim McElwain could 
only smile at the thought of that after the win over Missouri.
“You’ve got to pick one side 
of the field, right?” he said. “Pick your poison.”
Jordan: Johnny TownsendThe Gators have strived for con-
sistency all season long. 
But six games into the year, 
only one player has done his job consistently and at the highest lev-el possible every time he steps foot 
on the field.
That’s right, it’s punter Johnny 
Townsend. The redshirt junior’s 
47.54 yards per punt leads the SEC and ranks third in the coun-
try. Through six games, 15 of his 
28 punts have traveled at least 50 
yards and only two have resulted in touchbacks.
He’s the defense’s best friend, 
pinning opponents inside their 20-
yard line on 13 of his 28 punting 
attempts this year. 
On those 13 drives, Florida’s 
defense has given up zero touch-downs, one field goal and forced a safety. 
In other words, when Townsend 
pins the opponent deep in its own territory, Florida’s defense is only being outscored 3-2.
He’s also the offense’s best 
weapon, stretching the field every time a Florida drive stalls before reaching midfield.
And he’s probably the only 
player on the team who can rival 
special teams partner Eddy Pinei-
ro’s fan base. 
While Pineiro’s name is chanted 
each time he steps up for a field 
goal, Townsend has a movement 
on Twitter, with fans calling for 
him to become the first special teams player to win the Heisman.
While he probably won’t be 
named the best player in college 
football, Townsend has been the 
Gators’ best player so far this year, without a doubt.
Ian: Jarrad DavisThe gap between Jarrad Davis 
and the rest of the candidates on this list is huge.
Through seven weeks, no other 
player has meant more to this team than Davis, the senior linebacker who doles out instructions to his teammates before each snap and 
wreaks havoc in opponents’ back-
fields. 
Davis leads Florida with 48 
tackles and is tied for fourth on the 
team with two sacks.
And while his production alone 
jumps off the stat sheet, it’s clear when talking to his teammates that Davis is Florida’s vocal leader. 
He’s the first player leading the 
Gators out of the tunnel before each game and the on-field coach at the line of scrimmage. 
He tells his teammates where to 
be and hypes them up for big mo-ments, a quality that has unques-tionably contributed to Florida’s 
dominant defense this season — 
UF is allowing a stunningly low 12 points per game, second in the 
nation.
Yes, you can argue that Florida 
is truly DBU (Defensive Backs Uni-
versity), and with Wilson and Ta-bor at corner this year, you’d have 
a strong argument.
But with his play, Davis is mak-
ing an even stronger one for LBU.
Ethan: Cameron Dillard Cam Dillard isn’t flashy. When 
he talks with reporters, he won’t 
generally say much. And even when he does, it’s usually in a very soft-spoken voice. 
But so far this season, the cen-
ter’s play has been just the oppo-site of his personality: raucous, violent and potent.
Dillard is the leader of a much-
improved offensive line, which has 
been able to protect the quarter-
back a year after it struggled might-ily. 
Last season, the Gators allowed 
a league-worst 45 sacks. But this season, the group is tied for 12th-best in the nation in sacks allowed. 
And that improvement starts 
with Dillard. 
As the center, he’s the leader 
of the unit. He’s also a veteran playing in his fourth year at Flor-ida, and he’s excelled at leading a bunch of youngsters. 
Through sophomore Fred John-
son’s struggles, sophomore Tyler 
Jordan’s injury and the emergence 
of true freshman tackle Jawaan Taylor, Dillard has been the glue binding the line together. 
“Cam’s a guy that’s got his hands 
full with this group,” offensive line coach Mike Summers said, “trying to make sure that we’re in the cor-rect blocking scheme, that we’ve 
identified the targets the right way. 
Those are all jobs that he has to do. 
... And he has really shown a lot of improvement in an area that may have been a concern.”
Indeed, the whole offensive 
line was a concern heading into the season after a campaign that its players would certainly like to forget. But in large part thanks to 
Dillard’s leadership and consistent 
play, the offensive line has given 
the offense a chance to excel.
And even though the skill play-
ers haven’t broken through yet, 
Dillard is deserving of midseason 
MVP honors just for giving them 
that chance. 
Who do you think is Florida’s 
midseason MVP? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.Who is Florida football’s midseason MVP?
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
From left: Quincy Wilson, Duke Dawson, Jarrad Davis and Jalen T abor celebrate during Florida’s  
40-14 win against Missouri on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Jarrad Davis falls to the grass after injuring his left ankle during Florida’s homecoming win over Missouri on Saturday. Davis has a badly sprained ankle and there is no timetable for his return.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
 THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
Today
• Men’s golf at T avistock Collegiate Invitational, All Day 
Thursday• Women’s tennis @ ITA Regionals, 8:30 a.m.
• Soccer vs. Alabama, 6 p.m., SEC Network+
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA Regional Championships
Friday• Women’s tennis @ ITA Regionals, 8:30 a.m.
• Men’s and women’s swimming and diving vs. T exas, Indiana in Bloomington, 2 p.m.
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA Regional Championships
• Volleyball vs. Mississippi State, 7 p.m., SEC Network+
Saturday• Men’s and women’s swimming and diving vs. T exas, Indiana in Bloomington, 10 a.m.
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA Regional Championships
• Women’s tennis @ ITA Regionals
Sunday• Soccer vs. Mississippi State, 1 p.m., SEC Network+
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA Regional Championships
• Women’s tennis @ ITA Regionals
• Volleyball vs. Georgia, noon, SEC Network
GAMES TO WATCH THIS WEEK
Tuesday
MLB playoffs:Indians @ Blue Jays Game 4, 4 p.m.,TBSCubs @ Dodgers Game 3, 8 p.m. Fox Sports 1
Wednesday
MLB Playoffs:Indians @ Blue Jays Game 5 (if necessary), 4 p.m.  TBSCubs @ Dodgers Game 4, 8 p.m. Fox Sports 1
Preseason Basketball:
Golden State Warriors @ Los Angeles Lakers, 10 p.m. ESPN
Thursday
MLB Playoffs:Cubs @ Dodgers Game 5, 8 p.m. Fox Sports 1
College football:
Miami @ Virginia T ech, 7 p.m. ESPN
NFL:
Chicago Bears @ Green Bay Packers, 8:25 p.m. CBS
Friday
MLB playoffs:Blue Jays @ Indians Game 6 (if necessary), 8 p.m. TBS
College football:
Oregon @ California, 10:30 p.m. ESPNFLORIDA MEN’S GOLF
The Gators are in first place at 16 under par after Day 2 of the T avistock Collegiate Invitational. 
Here’s how the Gators are performing individually:
1. Alejandro T osti  -9 (135)
T7. Jorge Garcia   -2 (142)
T12. Sam Horsfield   -1 (143)Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Mary Wise smiles during the Florida volleyball team’s Sept. 17 win over Marshall in the Lemerand Center. Wise and the Florida will play a pair of home matches this week. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti, who currently leads the T avistock Collegiate Invitational, looks at his shot during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational. 
T16. Gordon Neale  E (144)
T16. Andy Zhang  E (144)16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2016
of her career.  
She and fellow senior Belinda 
Woolcock won two rounds in the 
main draw.
“The returning players are deﬁ  -
nitely better than they were last 
year, no question,” Thornqvist 
said. 
With nearly a week of play 
at the All-Americans, one match 
stood out in the ﬁ  nal days. 
Austin and Keegan reached the 
semiﬁ  nals of the main doubles 
draw, but lost a three-set thriller 
7-6(5), 6-7(5), 1-0(7).
“There’s a reason why (Austin 
and Keegan) are the NCAA de-
fending champions,” Thornqvist 
said. “And it takes a really, really 
good team that plays at a high level for a long time to beat them.”
But to Thornqvist, the level of 
play the duo exhibited will be in-dicative of the rest of its season. He said Austin and Keegan are 
good enough to have the oppor-
tunity to repeat as NCAA doubles champions in the spring.  
In addition to their success, the 
entire team was recognized at the homecoming football game for its 
performance in the 2015-16 sea-
son. 
Last year, Florida earned its  
29th regular-season Southeastern 
Conference Championship along 
with undefeated play in the SEC (13-0).
It was the 24th time the Gators 
went undefeated in conference 
play and the sixth under Thorn-
qvist.  
“If that was a barometer, last 
year’s play, then we have vastly 
improved since last year,” Thorn-
qvist said.
The Gators are just two days 
away from one of the ﬁ  nal tourna-ments of the preseason. 
The ITA Regionals will begin 
Thursday morning in Gainesville. Times and draws have not yet been announced.
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org Austin, Keegan have impressed 
Thornqvist so far this fall“Just putting pressure on 
yourself, making (the situa-
tion) game-like,” Stone said. “After you get done with a drill, you go shoot free throws when you’re tired.”
But one Florida player has 
embraced the unusual solution. Barry has reincarnated the out-dated free-throw form his father retired 36 years ago. Last sea-son at the College of Charleston, Barry converted an impressive 
84.5 percent of his free throws. 
Barry has even proposed 
struggling teammates adopt his 
style. 
“He tried to recruit John 
Egbunu early on,” White said. “John gave it about four or ﬁ  ve reps and threw it away. But he’s knocking them in in practice. Canyon is arguably our best free-throw shooter right now, so it’s fascinating to watch.”
Senior forward Justin Leon 
also noticed Barry’s success at the stripe. 
“The number one thing I like 
about him is (his) free throws,” Leon said. “It’s just something different.” 
And while his motion is un-
usual, Leon said he can’t dis-credit the style when nearly 85 percent of Barry’s attempts go in. 
“It’s not me,” Leon said. “I 
tried it, but I’m gonna stick to the regular form.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg.13Barry made 84.5% of FTs
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Women's tennis coach Roland Thornqvist, left, led Florida to is 29th regular-season Southeastern 
Conference Championship last season.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Forward Justin Leon talks at UF's Media Day. Leon said he will not shoot granny-style free throws like teammate Canyon Barry.
