We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 18 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
Callaway ‘doubtful’ for Saturday’s 
game
The receiver was injured against Kentucky, pg. 14
New coﬀ  ee shop opens downtown
Patticakes offers both breakfast and lunch, pg. 3
Hippodrome State Theatre to hold costume sale
Items range from mink coats to a dragon costume, pg. 8Comedian Brooks Wheelan returns to GNV
Read the Avenue story, pg. 8
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
As 101 Cantina faces eviction, a 
faux memorial will be held Friday 
to commemorate the Midtown res-taurant and bar.
The Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish 
Student and Community Center, located at 2021 NW Fifth Ave., will host the Mexican-themed din-
ner as part of its free weekly Shab-
bat meals. It will begin at 7:30 p.m.
Chanie Goldman, a codirector 
of the center, said the memorial 
dinner was just a joke. On Fridays, 
the center’s biggest competition for students’ time is Midtown.
“It’s not a memorial service to 
Cantina,” Goldman said. “But you 
can’t get Mexican (anymore), so 
come to Chabad. There’s nothing for you in Midtown.”
Fara Moskowitz, a 20-year-old 
UF junior, said there are rumors 
every year about 101 Cantina clos-
ing, so Chabad may be making fun of the restaurant’s situation to 
draw more students to its dinner. “It’s just a funny way to con-
vince people to not go to Midtown 
and go to Shabbat instead,” the UF 
family, youth and community sci-
ences student said.
Shane McKenna, a UF alum-
nus, said he thought it was funny Chabad was giving 101 Cantina a 
“parody” memorial.
With all of the money he spent 
at the bar as a student, McKenna 
said he found it surprising that the restaurant couldn’t pay its rent and now faces eviction.
The costs for damages that 101 
Cantina owes, however, didn’t 
come as much of a shock, he said.
“Is any of the damage being 
charged for what they did to my liver?” he said.
@Jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org  Chabad to host parody memorial for 101 Cantina
SHE WILL START HER 
CLERKSHIP IN 2018.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Kathryn Kimball used to visit her 
law professors’ ofﬁ  ce hours so often, her name was once mentioned on a ﬁ  -nal exam. 
Now the 29-year-old’s name has been mentioned on a Supreme Court justice’s list.
Supreme Court Associate Justice 
Clarence Thomas selected Kimball as one of his clerks for 2018. She is the ﬁ  rst UF alumna in UF Levin Col-lege of Law’s history to become a Su-preme Court clerk, a position normally reserved for private and Ivy League school graduates. 
“I’m highly honored that he selected me to clerk for him,” Kimball said. “I think it will broaden my understanding of the law.”
The Lakeland, Florida, native will 
begin her clerkship, which will last a year, in July 2018. About 1,000 people apply for the clerkship every year. Each Supreme Court justice selects four clerks a year, which will normally total to about 36 clerks, but the number was even less because of Justice Antonin Scalia’s death earlier this year.
When considering law schools, Kim-
ball said she saw the strong alumni net-work at UF and knew it would open a lot of doors for her in the future.
“I’m really thankful that I ended up 
going to UF,” she said. 
While studying at Levin, Kimball 
spent the majority of her time in three places: working with Professor Mi-
 UF alumna makes history as ﬁ  rst Supreme Court clerk from LevinBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Mike Pence will headline a rally 
about 60 miles south of UF on Sat-
urday. 
The Republican vice presidential 
candidate will speak at the Savan-nah Center, located at 1575 Buena Vista Blvd., in The Villages, Florida, according to a Donald Trump cam-paign email. The event starts at 3 p.m., and doors open at 1 p.m.
No posters, banners or signs may 
be brought into the event, according to the email. There is no dress code, and an ID is not required for entry.
No professional cameras with 
detachable lenses are permitted, according to the email. No tripods, monopods, selﬁ  e sticks or GoPros are allowed. 
Christian Sutton, a UF preprofes-
sional pharmacy sophomore, said he plans on making the one-hour drive to see Pence.
The 19-year-old went to a Trump rally in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, over the summer and said being near the 
Republican presidential candidate 
was breathtaking. 
He said he wants to support 
Trump in any way he can, which includes supporting the candidate’s vice president.
Pence is a sol-
id running mate choice for Trump, 
Sutton said, and 
he said he hopes other UF students attend the rally to learn more about the two.
“I just think 
people should go just to see what the other side says,” he said. “You 
should be knowledgeable when you 
go out and vote.”
Up to two tickets can be reserved 
per person at donaldjtrump.com.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org VP candidate Mike Pence 
to hold rally near Ocala 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator
AR-TEA-STIC COFFEE
Julia Clow, an 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman, paints with green tea and coffee at the Painting with 
Coffee and T ea event hosted by the CREATE club at the New Physics Building on Wednesday evening. “I used green tea for texture and coffee for the background, ” Clow said. “I’m just experimenting. ”
Kimball
Pence
It is a Mexican-themed dinner
ELECTION 2016
SEE SCOTUS,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
What Colors Do You Bleed? 
Blood Drive
The annual What Colors Do 
You Bleed? Blood Drive hosted 
by LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers will be held until Friday. The blood drive is a competition between UF and the University 
of Tennessee to see which 
school can donate the most 
blood. UF has not won since 2008, so the university hopes to 
win this year. All blood donors 
will earn spirit points toward Dance Marathon and the Fall Greek Blood Drive. Donors will also receive a T-shirt and will help save a life. Bloodmobiles will be located at the Newberry Road Donor Center, the Civitan Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more infor-mation, email lgbialeck@life-south.org or call 352-359-0988.
Gators Volleyball vs. FAMU
Join the Gators on Friday for the 2016 volleyball home opener at the Lemerand Athletic Center, presented by Active Ankle. The match against Florida A&M University will begin at noon. Fans will receive free 2016 Florida volleyball posters. Mini volleyballs will be given out during player introductions, and cheerleaders will toss T-shirts into the stands after each Gator ace. Tickets can be found at floridagators.com/tickets.
Flu Shot Kickoff and Tank Top 
Giveaway on FridayGet the shot, not the flu. Drop by the UF Student Health Care Center, located in the infirmary 
building at 280 Fletcher Drive, 
on Friday between 9 a.m. and 3 
p.m. for a free flu shot and free “Chomp the Flu” tank top with your Gator 1 Card and health 
insurance card. Tank tops will 
be available to the first 1,500 
UF students vaccinated at the Friday event. For more informa-tion, visit shcc.ufl.edu/flu.
Gainesville Record Fair
The Gainesville Record Fair will take place this Sunday at The Wooly, located at 29 N. Main St., from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Admission is free. Call 352-371-2121 for more information.
Rutgers’ Scream Theater
This riveting performance takes place Sunday from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Six actors por-tray a typical college scenario, then stay in character and al-low audience members to ask the characters questions. Later they provide background into the motivation behind their roles. Contact Rita Lawrence at RitaL@ufsa.ufl.edu or 352-273-4452 for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 18
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY 
IMPACT WILL BE ASKING 
STUDENTS FOR IDEAS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Without the rain holding them 
back, students wrote ideas to im-
prove UF through Student Govern-ment on Wednesday. 
Impact Party representatives 
asked students to share ideas for their upcoming platform from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Turlington Plaza and the North Lawn. Today is the last day of Impact’s platform generation. The platform will likely be released early next week, although an ofﬁ  cial date has not been set, said Impact Party President Janae Moodie. 
“We just want to make sure it’s 
the best platform for the students,” she said. 
Students wrote about improving 
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol, creating covered scooter parking, bringing more speakers to campus and lowering football ticket prices. 
Kasia Wiech, a UF biology fresh-
man, picked up a piece of blue chalk and underlined the phrase “Replace (What is the) Good Life with some-thing useful.” 
“I just think it’s a useless course, 
because I could be doing something else,” the 18-year-old said. “There’s 
just other ways we could get a hu-
manities credit.” 
Dana Daley, an 18-year-old UF 
political science freshman, wrote that she wants SG to improve light-ing on campus at night. 
“It’s really not that well-lit,” she 
said. “I think it could deter things from happening.” 
knewberg@alligator.org   Impact prepares platform for elections
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
BALL WITH BRENDON
Kajlil Reed, a 21-year-old UF biochemistry and molecular biology senior, 
participates in UF Student Government’s event Brendon (and Ball) is Life on Tuesday afternoon on Turlington Plaza. Brendon Jonassaint, a 21-year-old UF health science senior and the Student Body vice president, said the event was a way to “engage students on campus” and “let them meet me. ”
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police ﬁ  led a sworn 
complaint Wednesday recommend-
ing that State Rep. Keith Perry be charged with simple battery and trespassing.
Following a ﬁ  ght Saturday be-
tween Perry and another man, GPD ﬁ  led with the state attorney recom-mending the charges, GPD spokes-
man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said. Ofﬁ  -
cers did not see the incident, so the state attorney must decide whether to charge Perry.
GPD released a 30-minute video 
of the ﬁ  ght, showing Perry striking the man across his neck in the 2200 block of W. University Ave., accord-ing to a police report.
Perry, a Republican representing 
District 21 in the Florida House of Representatives, is currently running for the District 8 seat in the Florida Senate.
The video, which has no audio, 
shows Perry and the man arguing at about 6:30 p.m. Saturday. A taken-down “Keith Perry for State Senate” sign can be seen on the front porch.
On Wednesday, Perry released a 
statement apologizing for the inci-dent, saying he only pushed the man when the man made comments to Perry’s wife and spat in Perry’s face.
“While I have the opportunity to 
bring charges against (the man), I have no intentions of escalating this any further,” the statement reads. 
“For anybody offended by my ac-
tions I humbly apologize.”GPD recommends charges for Rep. Perry 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Downtown Gainesville has a new 
coffee shop.
Patticakes, a local coffee shop 
and bakery, opened Friday at Bo Diddley Community Plaza and plans 
to hold a grand opening Tuesday. 
With a location already at Haile 
Plantation Golf and Country Club in 
Gainesville, the new Patticakes fea-tures an expanded menu and plans for a beer-and-wine happy hour, said Tiffany Williams, the shop’s manager. 
“We’re excited to try doing things 
a little differently,” she said.
The grand opening will be held 
Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m.
“This month is the ﬁ  ve-year an-
niversary of Patticakes,” Williams said. “So it’s a big month for us in many ways.”
Apart from lattes and pastries, the 
shop offers breakfast and lunch op-tions, including sandwiches and sal-ads, which the original location does not offer. The shop will open from 6:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. this week, but it will extend its hours after Tuesday. 
Mandisa Haarhoff, 29, ordered 
an iced mocha coffee at the shop 
Wednesday. The UF doctoral stu-
dent said the new location was con-venient.
“You can grab a quick coffee, do 
some work and then catch a bus to campus,” she said.New coﬀ  ee shop  opens downtown4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
chael Seigel as a research assis-
tant, managing the Florida Law Review as an executive and serv-ing on the law school’s honor 
committee.
Seigel, who died in 2015 after 
battling cancer, left behind words 
of endorsement for Kimball, knowing she would achieve great things. 
Kimball distinguished herself 
through her work for Seigel, said Robert Jerry, a former dean of the law school. Before his death, Seigel told Jerry about a letter of 
recommendation left on his com-
puter’s hard drive for Kimball.
“We were all beginning to 
think about the possibility that 
she might be someone that we all 
wanted to support for a Supreme 
Court clerkship,” Jerry said.
Jerry attached Seigel’s recom-
mendation with his own. Kimball 
later learned that Seigel’s recom-
mendation was inﬂ  uential to Jus-tice Thomas’ decision. 
Working as the executive edi-
tor of the comment section for the 
Florida Law Review helped her balance work and education, she said. The organization’s former adviser, Dennis Calfee, encour-aged her to apply for clerkships and other opportunities.
“He’s been my cheerleader the 
whole time,” she said. 
Calfee, a UF law professor, also 
wrote to Justice Thomas, recom-
mending Kimball for the clerk-
ship.
“Although she was No. 1 in 
her class, she took time out to tu-
tor other people and help them 
with courses,” Calfee said. “Pretty 
amazing lady.”
Before starting her clerkship 
with Thomas, Kimball will con-
tinue working in the tax division 
of the U.S. Department of Justice 
as a criminal prosecutor. 
Kimball said she wants her 
efforts to help open the door for 
more Supreme Court justices to 
accept UF alumni as clerks in the future.
“I hope that it will encourage 
UF students to realize that they’re 
just as capable as other students who went to Ivy League schools, and that they shouldn’t discount their education,” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
SCOTUS,  from pg. 1She will be working for Clarence Thomas
HE RECORDED PEOPLE 
IN WEAVER HALL.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police arrested a UF 
student last week on a charge of re-
cording other students in a Weaver Hall bathroom.
Jovany Fuentes, 31, recorded 
several male residents in the Weav-er Hall north third ﬂ  oor, according to a police report ﬁ  led Tuesday.
After the UF physics junior, who 
transferred from Valencia College this semester, showed another UF student the videos he recorded on his iPhone, the student reported it to UPD on Sept. 4.
Fuentes told the student he re-
corded at least four residents, ac-cording to the report. When UPD talked to one of the people the stu-dent saw in the video, he told of-ﬁ  cers Fuentes didn’t have permis-sion to take the footage.
Another student told police he 
thought he saw Fuentes standing with his hands over the top of the stall next to him as the student showered, according to the report. As the student left the shower, he saw a white iPhone lying next to 
the shower stall “like it had just 
been used.”
Fuentes chose 
not to make any statements with-out a lawyer 
present, accord-ing to the report. 
Fuentes has 
been charged with a sex of-fense for video 
voyeurism of a 19-year-old or old-er. As of press time, he remains in the Alachua County Jail in lieu of a $30,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org UPD : UF student arrested 
for bathroom ﬁ  lmings
Fuentes
ROLES OF A SUPREME 
COURT CLERK
• Review cases
• Prepare justices for oral arguments
• Conduct research to help draft opinions
• Help decide emergency applications like halted prisoner executions
Source: iipdigital.usembassy.govTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff 
and Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
Eight months after a Gainesville 
woman seemingly disappeared, a 
grand jury has charged her ex-boy-friend with ﬁ  rst-degree murder.
On Wednesday, the jury indicted 
Nelson Ariel Armas, a 28-year-old Gainesville resident, for killing Han-nah Brim, who went missing Jan. 19, according to a statement issued by Gainesville Police. 
Brim, who was 23 years old, was 
believed to be ﬁ  ve months pregnant at the time of her disappearance, ac-cording to Alligator archives.
Police have not found Brim’s 
remains, but forensic evidence con-vinced ofﬁ  cers she was dead, ac-cording to the archives.
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-
bias said police believe Armas was the last person to see Brim alive. He was quickly considered a suspect in the case, Tobias said.In February, 
about 150 ofﬁ  -
cers from seven 
law enforcement 
agencies — in-cluding GPD and the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce — searched 
for Brim in a heavily wooded area of the Orange Heights neighborhood, 
according to archives. The area is lo-
cated about ﬁ  ve miles from Waldo, Florida.
Armas was already in the Ala-
chua County Jail on charges of an unrelated domestic battery. He was not issued a bond.
Anyone with information on the 
disappearance of Hannah Brim can 
contact GPD Detective Tom Mullins 
at 352-393-7619, CrimeStoppers at 352-372-7867 or text “GPDFL” plus a tip to 274637.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgEx-boyfriend  charged 
in Gainesville murder
Armas
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
With a new gameday app, UF 
football fans can purchase parking 
spots and tickets with the tap of a thumb.
FanFocus GameDay, a smart-
phone app developed by two UF alumni, launched last week as a way to simplify Saturdays in the Swamp.
Dan Schentrup, the managing 
owner of the company, said FanFo-cus creates a marketplace for people to buy and sell parking spots and game tickets.
“As fans, we felt convicted to 
take our skills and capabilities — with some money — to create an app that helps you with the game-day experience,” Schentrup said.
Schentrup said he developed the 
app with his brother, Philip.
The app uses the GPS from users’ 
smartphones to display available parking spots other users are selling 
nearby. It connects ticket vendors with interested buyers and also dis-
plays nearby events going on during gamedays.
“The idea was to make it hyper-
local,” Schentrup said.
From a ticket-sales standpoint, 
Schentrup said he hopes the app will cut down on ticket scalpers and the hassle of cash sales while also 
cutting a share of the market from 
companies like StubHub and Ticket-
master.
By the end of the season, Schen-
trup said, the company will add 
another amenity called Skooch to make it easier to sit next to friends at the game.
“We’re using an algorithm, and 
ticketholders can say how willing they are to move seats,” Schentrup 
said. “Fans will have an orderly way 
to ﬁ  gure out how to sit with their friends, and for the people willing to scooch, they get money.”
So far, the company has a few 
hundred downloads, Schentrup said. The next step is to expand to other Southeastern Conference 
teams, with the University of Ten-
nessee and Auburn University next to launch.
“We’re starting at UF just out of 
an afﬁ  nity for our experience there,” he said. “We’re very excited about it. The graduate school of business has been so supportive.”
Gabrielle Montecalvo, a second-
year UF business administration master’s student, manages a team of UF students who work with Fan-Focus and also runs its social media and marketing.
“To apply what I’m learning in 
class to a real-world application has been really interesting for me,” she said.
Montecalvo said she’s excited 
about being part of a startup com-pany and providing a much-needed service to football fans struggling with parking or ﬁ  nding tickets.
“I think once people learn about 
the app, they’ll ﬁ  nd so much value in it,” she said.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org  UF alumni create gameday appUF gradu-
ates create gameday appUsers can buy and sell ticketsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORStand up against 
environmental 
degradation
With Gainesville residents protesting oil pipelines Tuesday, 
we here at the Alligator thought we’d offer some insight into what’s going on in our beautiful state. 
Sabal Trail Transmission is ready to start construction 
on a natural gas pipeline about 500 miles long that would 
run through Alabama, Georgia and Florida. It would carry more than 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas from Alabama each day  — about 84 percent more natural gas than can be brought in by Florida’s current pipeline. Sabal Trail will supply gas to Florida Power and Light and Duke Energy of Florida. 
The pipeline is supposed to be up and running by May 2017, and 
it’s projected to create millions of jobs during its construction, a lot of revenue for the state and maybe lower electrical bills. Sounds won-derful, right? Except there’s one thing that won’t beneﬁ  t from this 
extravagant pipeline: the environment.
Consider what’s more crucial to you: paying a few dollars less on 
your Gainesville Regional Utilities bill or breathing clean air?
Let’s look at just some of the issues the Environmental Protection 
Agency had with Sabal Trail — issues outlined almost a year ago in 
a 26-page letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission but ultimately got swept under some corporatist rug:
First, “signiﬁ  cant environmental issues related to drinking water 
supplies.” The Floridan Aquifer, through which Sabal Trail would 
cut, is one of the highest-producing aquifers in the world. Depending 
on where you live, you could be one of the nearly 10 million people for whom the Floridan aquifer system is the primary source of drink-ing water. Now imagine this pipeline bursting, or even just springing a leak, as pipelines notoriously do. (Think British Petroleum. And Royal Dutch Shell. And Exxon.) Are you cool with buying jugs of water from Publix to shower with? Yeah, neither are we. 
Second, “wetlands, conservation areas, environmental justice.” 
In Florida alone, the 3-foot-wide pipeline would cut through conser-
vation areas that feature rivers and springs. Florida’s biodiversity is 
part of what makes this state like no other place in the world, and about 325 acres of its natural beauty, not to mention the habitats of endangered species and the economic beneﬁ  t of natural areas, would be compromised if this pipeline didn’t operate perfectly. Even if it did, the installation process will wreak enough havoc for it to be a bad idea. 
And if the possibilities of not being able to drink clean water or 
losing the chance to get drunk at the springs with your friends aren’t 
enough to convince you, how about forfeiting the right to breathe 
clean air? The third issue the EPA brought up was “air quality and greenhouse gas emissions.” Global warming, climate change, some-thing Donald Trump doesn’t believe exists — whatever you want to call it — is happening now, so the whole “prevention of global warm-ing” ship has pretty much sailed. The only thing we can do to keep it from literally killing us is to stop encouraging it. If we go through with the Sabal Trail pipeline, even more greenhouse gas emissions, which act as a heat trap, will be released into the atmosphere. If you think 
Florida is already scorching, wait until the summer of the year 2030.
For the Sunshine State, it may be too late to stop. But if Florida’s 
a lost cause, the same impacts can still be prevented in other states 
with proposed pipelines through natural areas, like the Dakota Ac-cess Pipeline, which runs from North Dakota to Illinois. Keystone XL pipeline’s permit got denied in June 2015, so we know it’s indeed possible to stop these environmentally damning pipelines in their tracks. Reach out to your own state representatives and those of af-fected states to let them know you won’t stand for the degradation 
of our country.
I am frequently asked about my views on 
leadership and the qualities that make a great leader. 
Most of what I know about leadership I 
learned by observing other leaders, includ-
ing university presidents. 
Two presidents acclaimed for their leader-
ship, and with whom I had personal connections, 
died this year. They were Cornell Univer-
sity President Elizabeth “Beth” Garrett and 
University of Southern California President Emeritus 
Steve Sample.
I attended the memorial service for Beth Garrett in 
Ithaca, New York, this past March.  She was young and 
expected to be president for a decade or longer.
 Although she served for only eight months, the 
Cornell community was inspired by her considerable energy and optimism. 
Steve Sample and I studied and worked in the same 
electrical engineering departments at the University of Illinois and Purdue University, although he was more senior. Steve went on to presidencies spanning near-ly three decades at the University of Buffalo and the 
University of Southern California. He is credited with 
transforming USC into one of the nation’s great research universities. 
Both Steve Sample and Beth Garrett had leadership 
qualities I admire, including a focus on excellence, a strategy for strengthening their universities and a clear understanding that the most important asset of a university is its people. 
In addition, Steve Sample wrote one of the 
few books on leadership I have found help-ful: “The Contrarian’s Guide to Leadership.” The chapters “Artful Listening” and “Work for Those Who Work for You” provide insight into some of the attributes I have worked to 
cultivate in myself.
There are two additional chapters I would add if I 
were authoring a book on leadership. The ﬁ  rst would 
be titled “Persistence.” 
I have learned over my 39 years as a university stu-
dent, professor and administrator that it’s impossible to overcome many challenges on the ﬁ  rst try, but that they are often surmountable on the second try … or at least the fourth or ﬁ  fth! 
The second chapter would be called “Patience.” I 
have learned I need to be patient with myself and with others, and ironically, being patient often speeds the outcome I am working toward.
Our university is a world leader in many areas, but 
we are working to be an even greater leader among the world’s universities. 
Our strategic plan for the next decade describes 
our overarching aspiration with the following 
words: “The University of Florida will be a premier 
university that the state, nation, and world look to for leadership.” 
Leadership is our goal, not only for UF but for all 
Gators. With persistence and patience, UF will be the university — and Gators will be the people — that the world looks to for leadership.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His column ap-
pears monthly.Gator leadership takes persistence and patience
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“I have learned over my 39 years as a university 
student, professor and administrator that it’s 
impossible to overcome many challenges on 
the irst try, but that they are often 
surmountable on the second try...
or at least the fourth or ifth!”THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
If you’re not familiar with the term 
Manic Pixie Dream Girl, let me give you a refresher. The term, coined by 
ﬁ  lm critic Nathan Rabin, is used to de-
scribe spirited, quirky female charac-
ters (usually written by men) that inspire the brooding male hero to ﬁ  nd joy in life. It 
is an overdone trope that devalues female 
characters, reducing them to plot tools for the more complexly written male charac-ters. 
There’s been debate about MPDG char-
acters in the ﬁ  lm and literature world: Is 
a character an MPDG just because she is 
quirky? Is it inherently sexist to just lump all quirky women together and label them MPDGs? 
The main problem with the existence of 
the MPDG, however, is that even though a 
lot of people are aware this trope exists, a lot of straight men still expect an MPDG to walk into their lives and give meaning to their otherwise sad existence. 
Some guys will even admit that they’re 
waiting for their MPDGs. But when they look for partners, they are not looking for people; they are looking for an idea. Some guys prefer the tradi-
tional sundress-wearing, uku-lele-playing girl with a heavy 
fringe and cute glasses. Others 
want combat boots and mul-ticolored hair, coupled with sharp sarcasm and a penchant 
for doing illegal things. 
Whatever the niche, it’s 
counterculture and quirky, 
and the guys who search for these girls pride themselves on looking beyond super-
ﬁ  cial hotness. They want girls with person-
alities, right? 
The danger is they’re ﬁ  xated on an idea, 
and even though the girl they’ve found 
may ﬁ  t a lot of their criteria, each girl is 
still her own person, not an idea. Break that idea, and some guys don’t react well. 
A classic example of this in ﬁ  lm is “500 
Days of Summer,” starring Zooey Descha-
nel as the titular Summer Finn and Joseph 
Gordon-Levitt as the man head over heels for her, Tom Hansen. For some reason, even though this ﬁ  lm takes the MPDG 
trope and nitpicks it apart, people still call Summer heartless and praise 
Tom. But let’s look at this closer, shall we? 
To Tom, Summer is per-
fection. She’s quirky, she likes the same music as him and she plays silly games in 
furniture stores. He thinks 
he’s found the one. But when she breaks it off, sud-
denly everything he found charming about her is now revolting. He once saw her as 
an angel, but now she’s a devil. 
But Summer is not this pastel-colored 
dream or a heartless b----: She’s a person 
who is allowed to have her own problems, 
make her own decisions and have a com-
plex inner life. Tom doesn’t see this be-cause the view he’s constructed of her is shallow and immature; she either fulﬁ  lls his needs, or she doesn’t.
I have been a Summer. Most of my 
friends have been Summers. A boy falls for you because he tells you you’re differ-ent and you’re not like other girls. He is 
intrigued by your differentness and your offbeat personality, but you can’t be too 
weird. You can’t step outside of this box he’s created for you and stuffed you in, be-
cause if you do that, he’ll call you crazy 
and call you names and tell you you’re be-traying yourself. 
He thinks he knows who you are. He 
knows what he wants you to be. You’re either completely his or completely against him. 
Women are worth more than the sum of 
their fashion accessories and their quirky 
habits. 
We are complex human beings who are 
allowed to be angry and sad, who are al-
lowed to follow our own dreams without 
putting others in front of us, who are al-
lowed to be messed up, out of place and concerned with our well-beings. 
We are not here for the men who think 
they can reduce us to the color of our hair 
or the music we like. We are here for our-
selves. 
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her column ap-
pears on Thursdays.
The danger of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl and wrongly stereotyping womenColumn
Petrana Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Band Ballyhoo! to perform:
The band will play High Dive on Friday, pg. 10THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Gainesville Arts Market hits downtown: 
It will come to First Magnitude on Saturday, pg. 9By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Some may remember Brooks 
Wheelan as the comedian who per-
formed belligerently drunk at Gator 
Growl in 2014. With Homecoming 
approaching, some of us may ﬁ  nd ourselves looking back to that fate-ful night two years ago, when Lu-
dacris and Foster the People were 
met with a warm reception, and Wheelan was booed off the stage.
Today, he returns to town to 
perform at High Dive. 
I had the opportunity to speak 
with Wheelan about his experi-ence at Gator Growl 2014 and how he feels about coming back to the 
college town that was the site of 
his self-proclaimed “worst perfor-mance ever.”
“I’m totally going to talk about 
(Gator Growl) at my show at the 
High Dive,” Wheelan said. “It’s ac-
tually part of my routine now, the story of my worst performance. I get asked what my worst perfor-
mance is a lot, and it’s so easy for 
me to just say Gator Growl with-out hesitation. It was so bad, it was kind of fun.”
Wheelan, a former Saturday 
Night Live cast member, was sur-prisingly open to talking about bombing at Gator Growl. 
While many students blame his 
poor presentation on being drunk, Wheelan disagreed. He blamed his reception and onstage comedic ﬂ  ailing to issues with sound and the placement of his set.
“I know everybody thinks I 
bombed because I was drunk, but I often do my routine drunk,” ge said. “It doesn’t really affect my performance. I just should have gone on before Foster the People. 
When I performed, I feel like every-
one wanted to hear Ludacris.”
Wheelan went on to talk about 
how an outdoor festival like Gator 
Growl doesn’t necessarily cater to 
stand-up comedy. 
“Stand-up comedy in an out-
door, festival setting just isn’t ideal,” he said. “Comedy isn’t like 
music; the audience has to be at-
tentively listening to really follow the performance. With music, peo-ple can tune in and out.”
Wheelan seemed excited to 
come back to Gainesville — pos-sibly to redeem himself, or maybe to revisit a town that carries such a prominent memory for him. Some 
students, on the other hand, are 
not as thrilled about his return.
“I just remember thinking, 
‘Wow, that guy is really drunk and 
not funny,’” said 21-year-old UF 
acting junior J.J. Abujasen, who at-tended Gator Growl as a freshman. “Brooks wasn’t doing his job; he was drunk onstage, and above all, 
he was obnoxious. So I won’t be 
seeing him again.” 
Wheelan was on the cast of 
SNL for the 2013-2014 season, and 
he has also appeared on “Girls,” 
“Conan” and “Late Night with Seth Meyers.” Before diving into his comedy career, he worked as a biomedical engineer in Los Angeles 
and spent his nights performing 
stand-up routines around the city.
“I didn’t take biomedical engi-
neering too seriously,” he said. “I thought of it as my day job, and 
I treated it like working at Mc-
Donalds or Papa Johns. I actually used to work at Papa Johns, and I gave the same amount of effort 
to biomedical engineering as I did 
to Papa Johns, which was almost none.”
Wheelan, 30, got his biomedical 
engineering degree from the Uni-
versity of Iowa. 
“The second I ﬁ  nished my last 
ﬁ  nal, I drank a bottle of tequila 
on my roof and then drove to Los 
Angeles to pursue comedy about a 
week later,” he said.
While UF students may have 
mixed feelings about this aggres-sive comedian who got booed off 
the stage at Gator Growl 2014, 
the fact remains that he made the event memorable. 
He can look back at his poor 
performance with a relatively posi-tive sense of humor and work up the conﬁ  dence to give Gainesville another shot. So why shouldn’t we give him one?
Tickets for Wheelan’s High 
Dive show today are $10 on tick-etﬂ  y.com or $12 at the door. The show starts at 10 p.m. with open-
ers Gregg Cee and Rara Imler, and 
doors open at 9 p.m. Comedian  Brooks Wheelan returns to Gainesville
COMEDY
Courtesy to the Alligator
Brooks Wheelan, a former Saturday Night Live cast member, 
will perform stand-up at High Dive today at 10 p.m. 
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
will host its ﬁ  rst costume sale in six years this weekend.
The Hipp Costume Sale Ex-
travaganza will feature costumes, accessories and headpieces from various productions over the years. The sale will take place at the Hip-podrome on Saturday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday from noon to 4 p.m., Sarah Darden, the director of marketing and communications, wrote in an email.Although the Hippodrome does 
donate some of the less elaborate 
pieces to Goodwill, Darden said 
donating “wildcard” costumes 
isn’t very easy. The Hippodrome will usually reuse costumes or sell them.
“We are just looking forward to 
cleaning out our closets and start-ing fresh,” Darden said.
The sale will include vintage 
items — the oldest of which are 
from the 1940s — and costumes 
made at the Hippodrome for specif-
ic shows, said Jessica Kreitzer, the costume shop supervisor.The sale will include one-of-a-
kind items like donated mink coats, 
capes and a large insect costume. 
Some of the more rare pieces were 
made by one of the six Hippodrome founders, Marilyn Wall, who was a costume designer at the Hippo-
drome for more than 40 years be-
fore recently retiring.
“She’s incredibly skilled,” Kre-
itzer said. “A lot of this is her de-
signs and her artwork.”
Prices for the different pieces 
will vary depending on how old or elaborate they are. Most of the items are between $5 and $40. However, some specialty items will be about $250. Some of the more 
interesting pieces at the sale will be 
a dragon costume and a cape from 
“Hedwig and the Angry Inch.”  
Other vintage clothing items in-
cluded in the sale are ball gowns, 
wedding dresses, lingerie, stilettos 
and others the Hippodrome doesn’t 
have space for anymore.
“At this point, it’s hard to even 
walk through the costume stock 
room because we have so much,” 
Kreitzer said.
The Hippodrome doesn’t have 
a particular sales goal in mind, Darden said. The theater just wants 
to be able to give the community a 
chance to “raid its closet,” accord-
ing to a press release.
The money made from the sale 
will make sure the Hippodrome 
continues to put on events that 
serve North Central Florida.
Kreitzer said if nothing else, 
people should come for the experi-
ence of seeing the costumes.
“It’s better to bring them into the 
community where people can wear 
them rather than just keep them 
stored away in secret when they’re really cool and special,” she said.  Hippodrome State Theatre to hold weekend costume sale 
THEATERTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
With the Fall semester now in full 
swing, plenty of students are hitting the 
town and meeting new people. New re-lationships are in the making, and with new relationships come lots of dating. Unfortunately for us broke college stu-dents, lavish, expensive dates aren’t re-ally an option. The bright side is there’s a plethora of things to do in Gainesville that 
are cheap — or even free. With that be-
ing said, here’s ﬁ  ve of the best ﬁ  rst-date ideas for any student looking to impress that special someone. 
Union Street Farmers Market
The Union Street Farmers Market, lo-
cated at 111 E. University Ave., is much 
more than a place to buy locally grown produce. Held at the newly renovated Bo 
Diddley Plaza in downtown Gainesville 
every Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., 
it’s also a great place for a casual date. Each week there are various food trucks, juice vendors and even live music to 
listen to while eating an early dinner in 
the grassy square. With so much to do 
and see, you and your date can keep the pressure low, have a good time and get a meal on a budget. 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens  
Deﬁ  nitely on the more romantic side, 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens, located at 4700 SW 58th Drive, offers a beautiful date spot for those that want to get more in touch with nature. For just $8 each, you and your date can walk through more than a mile of various gardens fea-turing ginger, bamboo, hummingbirds and more. The garden also features two picnic areas for guests to enjoy meals while appreciating the great outdoors. 
Free Fridays Concert Series in Bo 
Diddley Plaza  
Although by day it may be a casual spot to buy food, Bo Diddley Plaza, locat-ed at 111 E. University Ave., comes alive every Friday night with its Free Fridays 
Concert Series. Running through Oct. 21, 
this completely free event brings bands 
from Gainesville and throughout Florida 
to perform from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. This is another cheap date spot for students on a 
budget. Plus, what brings people together 
better than good music? 
Butterﬂ  y Rainforest  
The Butterﬂ  y Rainforest, located at 
3215 Hull Road, is another great place 
for those that want to experience the out-
doors. Plus, it’s the perfect spot for those 
who  don’t have a car, as it’s right on UF’s campus. Located at the Florida Mu-seum of Natural History, UF students can 
walk through the outdoor exhibit for free 
with their Gator 1 Cards, and non-UF stu-
dents can tour the rainforest for $11 each. You and your date can see some stunning creatures from all around the world and 
explore many of the other exhibits the 
museum offers. 
Downtown Wine and Cheese
What could be more romantic than 
wine and cheese? For students 21 and 
older, Downtown Wine and Cheese, lo-
cated at 113 N. Main St., is the perfect 
spot to grab some food and drink. After closing for a short time in 2015, this shop and restaurant has reopened and of-
fers happy hours, wine tastings, brunch 
and more. Plus, the place has a patio in 
the back where guests can enjoy food and even visit with the restaurant’s cat, 8-Ball. It’s a cozy place to get close with someone special.  
Whether you want to keep it light or 
go on a more romantic date, there’s some-thing for everyone here in Gainesville, even if you’re on a budget. Hopefully these ﬁ  ve spots bring you and your date a little closer without giving your wallets too hard of a hit.  Five local ﬁ  rst-date ideas
LOCAL
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
This gameday will offer a little artistic twist 
with the Gainesville Arts Market in downtown 
Gainesville at First Magnitude Brewing Company this Saturday. The event will start at 2 p.m., giv-ing tailgaters time to visit before heading to the 
game.
GAM is a monthly market hosted by the 
Gainesville Art Scene. The event features local 
food vendors and artists who conglomerate to share their talents.
“It’s a market of artists from many different 
mediums, from T-shirts to tarot-card readers to acrylic and abstract painters,” said Brian Wilson, one of the event’s coordinators. “You can’t really 
pinpoint it — art can be found in just about any-
thing. That’s what makes this market unique.”
Txong Moua, the director of Gainesville Art 
Scene and the head showrunner of GAM, said she ﬁ  rst developed the idea of an arts market af-ter interviewing local artists and learning about their struggles promoting their work.
“There was a common theme of a lack of 
space for artists to get their work out there and 
interact with the community,” Moua said. “It can 
be difﬁ  cult to get into galleries and exhibits, so I created a simple way for making the connec-tion.”
While similar markets have been held in the 
past, Moua’s project debuted in the spring of 2015 and has successfully established itself in the local art scene. Every month, the Gainesville Arts Market attracts hundreds of enthusiasts.
“We get quite a few students and faculty from 
UF,” Wilson said. “Pretty much anyone who is interested in art, however you want to see it.”
GAM presents an opportunity for attendees to 
experience art ﬁ  rst-hand, and it is also a major platform for artists to promote themselves. The market’s vendors consist of a variety of local tal-ents.
Wilson said vendors range from students to 
community members, newcomers to established names and amateurs to artists with more than 30 years of experience.
“There’s an extreme amount of talent in this 
town,” he said. “We’ve been fortunate to have a lot of people come through.”
Moua said GAM allows artists to network 
with colleagues and share techniques and styles, 
and she encourages students to participate in 
community events like the Gainesville Art Scene.
Ras Justo Luis, a Caribbean artist and a UF 
alumnus, is this month’s featured artist. His clothing and art studio, Upful Creations, will be one of the dozens of vendors present Saturday.
Moua and Wilson are a part of a three-mem-
ber committee that works to organize the mar-ket. The pair, along with assistant coordinator 
Heather Montgomery, spends months contacting 
vendors, booking entertainment acts and publi-cizing the event. 
GAM typically takes place the third Saturday 
of every month, Wilson said, but the team gives special attention to exactly which weekend and at what time is best to host the market to accom-modate other major community events.
The September arts market was strategically 
set for 2 p.m. to accommodate for Saturday’s UF football game against North Texas. 
The market’s venue — First Magnitude Brew-
ing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., for September — is also thoughtfully chosen each month to maximize accessibility.
“(We’re) really trying to take the sense of 
community market to the people,” Wilson said. “You want everyone to come and be a part of it.”
The market will feature jewelry designers, T-
shirt makers, musicians and painters. Many of them will create their works on site, and their pieces will be available for purchase.
Wilson, who specializes in abstract painting, 
guarantees all who come out will go home with something special to remember, whether it be a physical piece of art or a positive experience.
“You’re going to ﬁ  nd something that reso-
nates with you,” he said. “The vendors and the artists are like a big family, and the people that come… ﬁ  nd themselves being a part of that fam-ily as well.”
Kids and pets are welcome at the event this 
Saturday.
“You’re supporting your community, and 
you’re being exposed to something you may not otherwise be exposed to,” Wilson said. “It’s a 
community project that I fully believe in.”  Arts market hits downtown
ART10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
By Nicole Clark
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
• Anyone is seen drinking
• Someone is killed
• Klaus does something to disappoint 
his siblings
• Someone refers to a member of the 
Mikaelson family as an “original”
• There is a ﬁ  ght scene involving 
more than two people
Take a shot when…
• Elijah says something that requires 
you to think hard to understand him• You start to feel a little bad for 
Klaus but then remember he’s 
terrible
• Mind control is used
• You wonder why the siblings were 
chased out of New Orleans in the 
ﬁ  rst place
• A witch or a werewolf wins a ﬁ  ght
Finish your drink…
• The show makes you start to feel 
emotional
• Someone gets turned into a 
vampire
• When you learn about the 
Mikaelson family history
• Someone gets daggered
• Someone is brought back to life“The Originals,” a spinoff of “The Vampire 
Diaries,” centers on the Mikaelson siblings: 
Klaus (Joseph Morgan), Elijah (Daniel Gillies) and Rebekah (Claire Holt). The show takes place in New Orleans, where the Mikaelson’s return 
after a century away to ﬁ  nd and protect Klaus’ 
child, better known as the “miracle baby.”
Despite all of the crazy stunts and antics this family goes through, the siblings band together with their “always and forever” motto. You will hate, love and cry over the characters in this show. “The Originals” will keep you guessing about what will happen next, with many unex-
pected twists and turns. So, grab a drink or two 
and settle in, and you’ll be binge-watching “The Originals” all night. 
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
When it comes to hip-hop and 
its evolution, Soulja Boy is arguably one of the most inﬂ  uential artists of all time; he was one of the ﬁ  rst art-ists to succeed in the internet age. 
Using MySpace during its prime, 
Soulja Boy showed how it’s pos-sible to use social media to get your music heard. 
Now, with websites like Sound-
cloud, artists can upload their mu-sic and release it to the masses. Art-ists have gotten noticed in strange ways: take Rob $tone, whose song 
“Chill Bill” became popular off of a 
WorldStar ﬁ  ght video, or Lil Yachty, whose hit song “1 Night” spread like wildﬁ  re after a video using Yachty’s song went viral on Twitter.
24hrs is a very new artist from Atlanta whose ﬁ  rst song on his Soundcloud was uploaded only 
eight months ago. What makes 
24hrs interesting is no one knows who he is. There are no pictures of him anywhere online, his age is un-known, he doesn’t do features for other artists, he doesn’t do inter-views besides the one he did with Complex’s Pigeons And Planes mu-sic blog back in April and he hasn’t 
performed in concert yet. 24hrs is a 
total mystery. 
This is deﬁ  nitely a different ap-
proach for an artist to take, espe-cially when people are quick at the chance to jump in the spotlight. 24hrs has said he remains a mys-tery because he wants people to like him solely for his music, and I can 
respect that.
24hrs has generated buzz 
through articles written on him, like his short interview with 
Pigeons And Planes and being fea-
tured on Drake’s OVO Sound radio 
show on Beats 1 Radio. 24hrs lets his music do the talking.
At ﬁ  rst listen, 24hrs’ music is 
certainly different. His high-pitched, heavily autotuned voice will turn a lot of people off, but give him a few listens; you’ll be able to vibe with his music. The production on his 
songs is exceptional, and the mix-
ing is that of an established artist. Incredible progress has been made, from his ﬁ  rst tracks uploaded on Soundcloud to his EP “12:AM,” which dropped last week.
24hrs is a dope artist on the 
verge of major success. His Sound-cloud plays are increasing by the 
day as more people are discovering 
him. Consider this your warning: Don’t sleep on 24hrs. 
 Hip-hop artist spotlight: 24hrs
MUSICBy Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Fresh off of this summer’s Vans 
Warped Tour, alternative punk rock/reggae band Ballyhoo! will make a stop in Gainesville on Fri-day night to play at High Dive. 
Ballyhoo! emerged in the mid- 
’90s out of Aberdeen, Maryland, and is currently on its Dance ‘Til You Fall tour. The band is com-posed of four members: lead vo-calist and guitarist Howi Spangler, drummer Donald “D” Spangler, bassist Nick Lucera and Scott Van-drey on the keys and turntables. 
As brothers, Howi and D devel-
oped their love for music together when their father would take them to see bands like Motley Crew and Ratt and Poison in the late ’80s. The original band was formed while they were in high school, when they added Vandrey to the lineup. Some years later, during the group’s time 
in Florida, the band picked up its 
newest member, Lucera.
Howi said it was during the 
band’s ﬁ  rst show in 1996 that he realized playing music was what he wanted to do with his life. 
“I was a kid, and we played a 
local show at our high school … (I thought), ‘This is it,’” he said. 
At that time, the band played 
mostly covers of big names like Green Day. To this day, Howi cites Green Day as one of the band’s greatest musical inﬂ  uences, along-side Sublime, 311, UB40, Incubus and others. 
The band has garnered quite a 
following on its own and is now even helping new artists get on their feet through its own record label, Right Coast Records. 
“(I am very excited) having the 
Bumpin Uglies out with us … see-ing them go out in front of crowds and just kill it,” Howi said. The 
Bumpin Uglies, on tour with Bally-
hoo!, will also perform Friday.
Howi said he remembers the 
excitement of hearing the band’s songs play on major radio stations, including a popular alternative sta-tion in his hometown of Aberdeen. Currently, Ballyhoo! is promoting its newest single, “Girls,” which 
was released this summer.Even with the excitement of 
new music, working with new 
bands on the group’s label, touring 
and witnessing a growing fan base, Howi keeps an eye on the future.
“Since day one, I’ve wanted to 
be on Saturday Night Live … and Rolling Stone,” he said. Tickets for Friday’s show are available at tick-
etﬂ  y.com for $12 or at the door for $14. Doors open at 8 p.m. for the 
8:30 p.m. show.
Punk rock band Ballyhoo! to perform at High Dive 
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ballyhoo!, an alternative punk rock band from Maryland, will play at High Dive on Friday night. The 
band spent the summer playing on Vans Warped T our and is now on its Dance ‘Til You Fall tour.  
By Brooke Bajgrowicz
Avenue Writer
In today’s world, many mu-
sic lovers download their music 
or listen to it through streaming services. But even in a digitalized age, nothing beats the nostalgic 
feeling of ﬂ  ipping through re-
cords by beloved bands alongside 500 other music fans. 
At the Gainesville Record Fair 
this Sunday at The Wooly, doing just that will be possible. With 18 vendors and 30 tables stocked with albums in nearly every genre — from classical to classic 
rock — there’s something for ev-
ery music addict out there.
Arrow’s Aim Records has 
hosted these record fairs for about six years, and owner Dan-iel Halal said he enjoys seeing what comes from them. 
“(The fair) raises more aware-
ness about records in general, music and music culture,” he said.
The records range in price 
from used albums for 50 cents to collectibles worth hundreds of dollars. Hear Again Records is returning as one of the local vendors. Owner Andrew Schaer said he likes the atmosphere of the record fair, as avid music fans not only have the opportu-
nity to get new albums, but they 
can also share their love of music together. 
“There’s more of a social dy-
namic with records than other formats,” he said. 
With a bar, DJs and records 
in nearly every genre imagin-able, this fall’s record fair is sure 
to be full of excitement. Music 
lovers of all ages won’t want to miss out. The fair will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., and admission is $5 from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and free for the rest of the day.GNV hosts record fairBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 10 For Sale12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Mortgage company looking for part-time lead originators. $12/hour plus bonus. Weekday evenings. Students preferred. Email your contact info or resume to mike@AmericanFinancial.loans     9-16-16-5-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14ACROSS
1 Host of “Late
Night Joy”
6 Pennant contest
10 Herbal seed used
in smoothies
14 Truly impress
15 Screen image or
screen idol
16 Called17 Eleventh hour
19 Language of
Pakistan
20 Beach toy21 “Otello”
composer
22 She played
Jackie on “Nurse
Jackie”
23 Age of Reason
philosopher
25 Short fiction27 Sloth and envy29 First name in
scat
30 Super __33 Words after save
or take
36 Afghan capital
39 Lamb nurser
40 Speaker’s stand
... or what eachset of circledsquaresgraphicallyrepresents
42 Mama bear, in
Baja
43 Sauce made with
pine nuts
45 Roll dipped in
wasabi
46 __ cabbage47 Drawn tight49 Big name in golf
clubs
51 Bugs’ voice55 Storied monsters58 Airline known for
tight security
59 About
61 Algerian seaport
63 Humorist Barry
64 Unparalleled66 Plugging away67 Heated contest,
in more waysthan one
68 Aquafina rival69 Some skinny
jeans
70 Torah cabinets71 Like a neglected
garden
DOWN
1 Refuse to, with
“at”
2 Outlook
messages
3 Lacks choices
4 Quetzalcoatl
worshipers
5 High-__ image6 Jasmine __7 Part of an
autumn stash
8 Many a beach
rental
9 Bitter green in
mixed greens
10 Fur-loving de Vil
11 Work that may be
imposed with a
prison sentence
12 29-state country13 Feverish bouts18 “Still ... ”24 Honda Fit
competitor
26 Warning sign in
the Rockies
28 High waters30 Abundance in the
cheerleadingsquad31 Reverence
32 Observation with
a sigh
34 Kwik-E-Mart clerk
35 Kitchen amt.37 Take for a sucker38 Little fellow
41 Many an Indian
fan
44 Computers that
travel well
48 Puget Sound city
50 It’s on the record51 Wartime award
52 Fill with joy
53 Forty-__
54 Links hazard
56 Banks with a
statue at WrigleyField
57 Course with
leaves
60 Jazz lovers62 Part of a Wall St.
address
65 Meadow drops
By C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/15/1609/15/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 15, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Home/Apartment/office cleaners needed 
ASAP. Weekly pay 8.50/hr $200-$350 week-ly. Must have a reliable car of your own and be able to pass a drug/background check. If really interested please call 352-214-0868.     9-15-16-5-14
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)What makes you tick?
The non-profit Center for Applications of 
Psychological Type is seeking volunteers 
who want to explore their personality in a study looking at the links between knowl -
edge of personality, behavior, and attitudes 
towards others.
You will receive compensation, take a free 
personality assessment, and receive expert 
feedback on your results. To learn more and 
take a brief eligibility survey:
www.capt.org/etv
etvstudy@capt.org
(352) 375 – 0160
9-20-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ENO HAMMOCKS!
Single and Double Nest Hammocks - lots of 
colors in stock now. Just 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836     
9-20-16-5-18
Baggies & Board Shorts Sale!
Patagonia, Columbia, Vissla, Billabong and Quiksilver. 30-50% OFF! Just 1 mile N of UF 
on 13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836    
9-20-16-5-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        9-21-16-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
'Let's talk about that. How can somebody give 110 percent 
when you only have 100, right?'
UF football coach Jim McElwain, discussing the effort of redshirt freshman 
Richerd Desir-Jones.Check out the second edition 
of our alligatorSports podcast, where we preview UF football's Week 3 matchup and break down this weekend's games.Listen at alligator.org/sports.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
On Monday, Florida coach Jim McEl-
wain said his star receiver had three 
days to return to practice before being 
ruled out for Saturday’s game against 
North Texas.
But while Antonio Callaway did par-
ticipate in team drills on Tuesday and Wednesday, McElwain said the sopho-more is somewhere between highly questionable and doubtful for Satur-day’s game after suffering an injury last 
week against Kentucky.
“Callaway went bits and pieces,” 
McElwain said Wednesday. “Don’t think 
we got a lot out of this afternoon.”
After injuring his quadriceps in Flor-
ida’s 45-7 win over Kentucky on Satur-day, Callaway had a noticeable limp in 
his leg during Tuesday’s and Wednes-
day’s practice.
“He definitely wasn’t himself,” McEl-
wain said.
Callaway posted a career-high 129 re-
ceiving yards on five receptions on Sat-urday, including a 78-yard touchdown catch in the first quarter. He has never missed a game at Florida.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgCallaway ‘doubtful’ for Saturday’s game
THE FLORIDA  
VOLLEYBALL TEAM 
IMPROVED TO 7-1.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Freshmen Allie Gregory and 
Rachael Kramer had yet to face 
this sort of challenge.A road match against a top-
15 opponent. A hostile environ -
ment in the confines of Talla -
hassee’s Tully Gym. 
First-year players aren’t sup -
posed to remain calm and col -
lected, especially during their first taste of a collegiate rivalry. 
Gregory and Kramer did.
Appearing in all four sets of Wednesday night’s match 
against Florida State, the fresh
-
man pair powered the Gators to a 3-1 victory over the Semi
-
noles. 
Handed just the third start 
of her Florida career, Kramer, 
a 6-foot-8 middle blocker, jus -
tified head coach Mary Wise’s 
decision. Chipping in two kills and a block, the former Under 
Armour High School All-Amer -
ican immediately contributed 
during the Gators’ 27-25 first-set victory. 
It didn’t stop there. With Florida struggling to 
find separation early in the third set, Kramer came up big, Freshman duo leads UF in road win over Florida StateBy Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
It has been a mere 25 days since the Gators 
last played in front of their home crowd at 
James G. Pressly Stadium.
And during that time, No. 4 Florida (5-1, 1-0 
SEC) has become a battle-tested and experi-
enced team.
The Gators played four consecutive road 
matches, including two top-15 opponents in 
then-No. 3 Stanford and then-No. 15 UCLA.
They have played three overtime games, in-
cluding a double-overtime thriller against Ken-
tucky on Sept. 8, which opened up their South-
eastern Conference schedule.
They even had a game 
against then-No.1 Florida State that was canceled due to se-
vere weather.
But that has only brought 
the team closer together.
“I think this year, this is the 
best chemistry we have had so far,” sophomore midfielder Briana Solis said on Wednes-
day. 
“We all just have fun every day at practices. 
Encourage each other. We are just always posi-tive. I think that is the biggest thing — positiv-ity.”
Playing the best teams in the country has 
transformed Florida into an offensive power-house that presents issues to every team it faces.
“Everyone was kind of scared about our 
schedule because we had a super hard sched-ule,” redshirt junior Kristen Cardano said. 
“But I think it worked in our benefit because Battle-tested 
Gators present problems for opponents
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway runs toward the end zone during Florida's 45-7 win over Kentucky on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. Callaway, who caught touchdown passes in the season's first two games, is doubtful for UF's matchup with UNT. 
He injured his quadriceps SOCCER
Solis
Callaway ‘doubtful’ for 
Saturday’s game vs. North Texas
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15Gregory
 Kramer
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
we have played some of the top 
teams and we played very well... I think that we will definitely be able to hold it down.”
But the Gators are not done be-
ing tested on the road yet.
After an eight-day break, Flor-
ida travels to Fayetteville, Ar-kansas, on Friday to take on the 
Razorbacks, another tough SEC 
opponent, to cap off its five-game 
road trip.
The last time the Razor-
backs (7-1, 1-0 SEC) played in 
Gainesville was 2015 when they 
lost 4-0.
It was also the game where So-
lis scored her first and only col-
legiate goal.
“I remember Kaylan 
(Marckese) throwing me the ball and just running my butt off for 80 yards,” Solis said.
After Arkansas, Florida plays 
at home on Sunday against UCF 
for the first time in five games.
The schedule doesn’t get any 
easier for the Gators as they get 
into the thick of their SEC com-
petition. 
But instead of complaining, 
players and coaches are embrac-
ing the adversity.
“The schedule has been ex-
cellent, we have had really good competition. We have seen a real variety of styles,” coach Becky Burleigh said. 
“We have dealt with a lot of 
adversity in our travel, which can only make us stronger. I don’t think it’s a bad thing.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 14Florida will play 
Arkansas on Friday  
blocking one shot and earning a kill on 
consecutive attacks to give the Gators a 15-13 edge. UF would go on to take the 
frame 25-22. 
Throughout the night, Florida State 
couldn’t find an answer to Kramer’s 
presence. A force in both aspects of the game, 
the Arizona native led her team in both 
hitting percentage (.615) and total blocks 
(eight).
And, while she came off the bench, 
Gregory was more than up to the task. 
Charged with service duties, the 
5-foot-6 defensive specialist kept the Seminoles on their toes, leading the Gators with two aces. Gregory also showcased her defensive 
acumen, digging eight balls over four 
sets played. 
Combined, Kramer and Gregory 
helped hold Florida State’s attack to a .207 hitting percentage while preventing 
the Seminoles from recording their first service ace until the decisive fourth set. 
They might not have filled the stat 
sheet like some of their teammates — se
-nior Alex Holston’s 15 kills once again led the Gators, while junior Carli Snyder was a kill removed from a double-dou
-
ble. 
However, they showed their compo -
sure in what was arguably the Gators’ 
toughest road challenge to date.
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 14Gregory lead the Gators with two service aces against FSU Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kristen Cardano (19) fights for possession during Florida's 3-2 win over Florida State on Aug. 30, 2015, 
at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (1) swings for a kill during Florida's 3-0 win over Ole Miss on Sept. 25 in the O'Connell Center. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise celebrates on the sideline during UF's 3-0 win over Ole Miss on Sept. 25. 
16   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2016
