We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 52 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
Oﬀ  ensive line seeing progress for 
UF football
Lukek Del Rio takes them out to dinner once a 
week, pg. 13
GNV residents aim to write novels in a month
It’s a nationwide effort, pg. 5
Learn more about ACSO sheriﬀ   candidates
Read about why they’re running, pg. 3Keep up with our election 2016 
coverage
Follow our coverage, alligator.org/election2016
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
As another West University Av-
enue business prepares to close 
its doors for good, long-time cus-tomers reminisced Tuesday about the sense of community the shop helped create.
Know Where Coffee, located 
at 1226 W. University Ave., an-nounced Tuesday that today would be its ﬁ  nal day of business, a de-cision that followed months of mounting debt and a lack of inter-est from investors.
“I’d understand if it was a case 
of not being able to sell coffee, but that wasn’t the case,” said Juan Diaz, the shop’s manager. “We were doing good business and we were loved, and the community 
did like us here.”
About nine months ago, after 
more than a year in business, the 
coffee shop — which prides itself on locally sourced artisanal coffee 
— underwent several renovations 
and a three-month hiatus, putting 
it about $30,000 in debt, Diaz said. 
Coupled with a slow summer 
of sales, paying back a loan with limited income dug the shop into a 
deeper hole.
A few months ago, owner Al-
fonso Guerrero, a UF alumnus, 
began soliciting for potential inves- Know Where Coﬀ  ee 
shutting down today
SHE WALKED ON 
TURLINGTON PLAZA 
AND THE PLAZA OF THE 
AMERICAS.
By Morgan Rynor 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Maya Punjwani, 19, spot-
ted Aja Naomi King on the Plaza of 
the Americas on Tuesday afternoon, she ran up to the actress. 
“I’ve been looking for you every-
where, and I love you,” the UF jour-nalism and political science fresh-man told the actress, who was at UF encouraging students to vote for 
Hillary Clinton as part of the Clinton 
campaign. King stars in “How to Get 
Away with Murder” and “The Birth of a Nation.”
King walked through Turlington 
Plaza and the Plaza of the Americas as part of UF College Democrats’ event providing shuttles to the polls. She took pictures with students who walked up to her and joined students on their rides to the polls.
Punjwani, who said she knows 
King from her role on “How to Get Away with Murder,” said she heard King was on campus after seeing a friend’s Snapchat story. 
“(King) was super casual, and 
she was talking about how she is going to different campuses to get people to vote,” she said.
Punjwani and her roommate, 
Sara Henley, 19, thought they had missed their chance to meet King when they didn’t see her on Turling-ton Plaza. Henley, a UF political science and 
business administration freshman, 
said she believes it’s important to 
have the Democratic Party send ce-lebrities encouraging people to vote. 
“Most celebrities you’re scared to 
go up and talk to,” she said, “but she was really nice.”
Dana Molk, the 19-year-old pro-
gramming director for UF College Democrats, walked around campus with King, who spoke about why she supports Clinton.
“She was really excited to help 
Hillary become the ﬁ  rst female presi-dent,” Molk said.  ‘How to Get Away with Murder’ actress 
campaigns for Hillary Clinton on UF campusEmma Green / Alligator Staff 
Juan Diaz, the 21-year-old manager of Know Where Coffee, holds one of the last cups of coffee he 
will make at the shop’s current location. The Santa Fe College pre-nursing student said he hopes to continue pursuing his passion of making specialty coffees.
By Justin T ompkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
As sexually transmitted diseases 
increased to record levels across the U.S. in 2015, Alachua County was no exception.
Following a Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention annual STD-surveillance report, which was released Oct. 19, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Health released the county’s updated 
numbers for cases of gonorrhea, 
chlamydia and infectious syphilis, 
the most common STDs in the U.S.
Last year, the county saw the 
highest single-year rate of these 
STDs in the past 20 years, accord-
ing to FDOH ﬁ  gures released Oct. 
26. There was an increase of 434 cases from 2014 to 2015.Nationwide, reported cases of 
primary and secondary syphilis 
rose by approximately 19 percent, 
gonorrhea cases rose by 13 percent 
and chlamydia cases rose by 6 per-cent from 2014, the CDC reported.
Dr. Guy Nicolette, the director 
of the UF Student Health Care Cen-
ter, said the center has not seen a 
signiﬁ  cant increase in any speciﬁ  c STD or in the total number of diag-nosed students this year.
The health care center offers stu-
dents that need screenings an inex-
pensive solution, Nicolette said.
“We are partnered with the Ala-
chua County Health Department to 
provide extremely low-cost, some-
times free, (STD) screenings, avail-
able to any student by appointment 
in our Get Yourself Tested Clinic,” he said.Brad Dalton, the deputy press 
secretary for the FDOH communi-cations ofﬁ  ce, said the state is very involved in addressing the surging 
numbers.
“More people need to know 
their status,” he said. “If you are 
sexually active, you should be tak-ing proper precautions, but regard-
less, you should be getting tested 
regularly.”  STD rates surge in Alachua County, stay same on campus
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Aja Naomi King, an actress 
who stars in the ABC television drama “How to Get Away with Murder, ” visited Turlington Plaza on Tuesday afternoon to campaign for Hillary Clinton.
SEE COFFEE,  PAGE 4
“She was really excited to 
help Hillary become the irst 
female president.”
Dana Molk
UF College Democrats  memberSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
RUB Entertainment presents 
Brent Morin
Reitz Union Board Entertainment 
presents a stand-up comedy per-formance by Brent Morin today in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom 
from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. Morin 
was co-starred on the NBC live 
comedy series “Undateable,” which just wrapped up its third 
and final season. Most recently, 
Morin released his new Netflix special, “I’m Brent Morin,” which is streaming now. He has appeared on “Chelsea Lately,” “Conan,” “Brooklyn 99,” “The McCarthys,” “Ground Floor” and Comedy Central. Only a year after his “New Faces” set at the Just for Laughs Comedy Festival in Montreal, Morin was named one of Variety’s Top Ten Comics To Watch.
‘Spring Awakening’ at UF now 
until SundayThe UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “Spring Awakening” from now until Sunday in the Constans Theatre at the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. This Tony Award-winning musical, based on the highly controversial and oft-censored 1891 play by Frank Wedekind, is a raw and honest portrayal of youth and self-discovery. Wendla, Mechior and their friends struggle with an emo-tional and sexual coming-of-age in defiance of a suppressive world of unjust teachers and adults. “Spring Awakening” will make you rediscover the excite-ment and innocence of youth. Performances are from today to Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
‘Before the Flood’
Reitz Union Board Entertainment will show “Before the Flood” today at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., Thursday at 7 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. This documentary takes a look at how climate change affects our environment and what society can do to prevent the demise of endangered species, ecosystems and native communities across the planet. There will be a post-screening discussion Thursday 
that will explore the questions 
“Before The Flood” asks: What 
impact do you have on the envi-
ronment? How can you do your part to help this planet? Voice 
your thoughts in a hands-on 
activity immediately after the 
showing.
‘The Ocean and the Election’
What does the election mean 
for the sea? Find out in a free 
public lecture by ocean journal-ist David Helvarg on Thursday from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. in 
the Reitz Union, Room 3320. 
Helvarg is a long-time ocean 
journalist and author whose books include “50 Ways to Save the Ocean,” “Saved by the 
Sea” and “The Golden Shore: 
California’s Love Affair with the 
Sea.” In his lecture “The Ocean and the Election,” Helvarg will share responses from presiden-tial candidates and ideas for how citizens can make a differ-ence on behalf of oceans and coastal communities. Helvarg will also share the trauma and wonder he has experienced in, on and by the ocean, along with powerful imagery to remind us of all of the intimate ways our lives are linked to the sea. His talk will be followed by a book sale and signing.
Ellen Stroud to discuss the role 
of dead bodies in American environmental historyEnvironmental historian Ellen Stroud from Pennsylvania State University is giving a free lec-ture Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. In this lecture, Stroud will exam-ine why Americans have gener-ally feared, rather than revered, dead bodies. Such anxieties about the place of corpses and corpse-disposal practices have shaped American landscapes and ideas about nature and raise challenging questions. This event is the fourth installment in an eight-part speaker series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide,” during which internationally renowned schol-ars and filmmakers will explore unique cultural and historical confrontations with death. For more information about this event visit humanities.ufl.edu/calendar/20161103-Stroud.html.RUB Entertainment’s Rock Out 
at the ReitzJoin Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment on Thursday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union, 
Room G310, for the chance to 
team up with your friends and peers to create the band of your 
dreams. Take center stage and 
play the virtual Rock Band game 
for fun with your fellow UF stu-
dents.
GatorNights: Villains vs. Heroes
On Friday, GatorNights is bring-ing you a “super” good time with a Villains vs. Heroes night. Test your knowledge and out-
wit your friends at villain-and-
hero-themed trivia. Outperform 
your peers with an inflatable jousting battle and bungee run challenge. Get your own hero 
or villain swag by creating your 
very own dog-tag necklace and 
mask. There will also be an 8 p.m. and a 10:45 p.m. showing of “Suicide Squad.” GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Tenth Annual Newberry Fall 
Festival The festival is Saturday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in down-town Newberry, Florida, along Seaboard Drive, just off Newberry Road. Enjoy vendors, food and entertainment for the whole family.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  84° LOW  63°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 52
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
For Jack 
Jacobs, a 
retired lieu-
tenant with the Alachua 
County Sher-
iff’s Ofﬁ  ce, more than 30 years of expe-rience dealing 
with active shooter scenarios, hostage-rescue cases and large-scale drug operations make him a qualiﬁ  ed candidate for sheriff.
The 53-year-old Republican, 
who retired in May, is running against his former boss, Sheriff Sadie Darnell, a Democrat who has held the position for more than a decade.
Jacobs said Darnell only 
wants to keep her position for its authority and prestige, while 
he wants to make an actual dif-
ference in the lives of county residents.
“I think it’s time for someone 
with fresh, new ideas and time for someone with more experi-ence handling some of the cur-rently trending topics,” he said, referring to widespread mistrust 
of police.
Jacobs said he believes his 
hands-on experience working 
as a member of ACSO’s SWAT team and as a law-enforcement instructor will help him reform community policing.
Jacobs criticized Darnell for 
implementing programs like Coffee with a Cop and Youth Dialogue, which he said set out to create a friendly relationship between deputies and residents but ultimately failed.
“They’re feel-good programs 
that are done for show,” he said. “But they’re not effective 
in what they’re supposed to be 
doing.”
Changing Darnell’s current 
administrative system is an-other one of Jacobs’ goals. He said he believes eliminating duplicate, high-paid positions will free up money to hire more deputies and detectives.
“We’ve got detectives that 
have two- or three-hundred cas-es apiece,” Jacobs said. “There’s no way one person can handle 200 cases. The recommended average is 10 to 20.”
Updating technology within 
the sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce and adding a DNA evidence lab are among 
the other key parts of his agen-
da, he said.
“Anything that makes our 
job more efﬁ  cient means we’re spending less time writing re-ports, trying to do administra-tive duties, and gives us more time to be out with the public and actually patrolling,” he 
said.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
RUN DATE DEADLINEIN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
After nearly 
40 years in law 
enforcement and about a decade as the 
Alachua County Sheriff, Sadie Darnell lists among her ac-complishments 
strides to address mental health is-sues and domestic violence while strengthening community out-reach.
And despite ﬂ  ack her adminis-
tration and Gainesville Police re-ceived after the fatal shooting of a suicidal teenager in March, Darnell said she feels conﬁ  dent she will defeat Republican candidate and former sheriff’s ofﬁ  ce Lieutenant Jack Jacobs on Nov. 8.
“I know this community really 
well,” Darnell, a Democrat, said. “My involvement deﬁ  nitely sets me apart. My experience surpasses his.”
With increased mistrust of law 
enforcement around the country, it’s been part of her agenda to use all opportunities to show responsi-bility and courtesy to the commu-
nity.
“It boils down to treating oth-
ers as they’d like to be treated,” 
she said.
Darnell, a Gainesville native, said living with her mother, who was clinically depressed, has given her insight to handle psychological 
issues within the community.
But after deputies and GPD ofﬁ  -
cers fatally shot Robert Dentmond, 
16, an incident later ruled justiﬁ  -able by a grand jury, Darnell’s ad-ministration was criticized for its use of force.
In September, Darnell respond-
ed by implementing the Emergency 
Mental Health Dispatch Protocol, 
which aims to train dispatchers and deputies to more effectively respond to such cases.
Another top priority, she said, 
was domestic violence, which ac-counts for the majority of calls to the Alachua County Sheriff’s Com-bined Communications Center.
In 2009, she implemented the 
Lethality Assessment Program, which is a series of questions depu-ties ask domestic violence victims to ﬁ  nd out how at risk they are for further abuse or death. It also pro-vides the victims with immediate access to protection services.
During her time as sheriff, she’s 
managed everything in the depart-ment — including the jail, the bud-get and the communications ofﬁ  ce. Despite three decades of work, Ja-cobs is not as experienced to lead the county’s law enforcement arm, she said.
“He’s done 31 years of service, 
but he’s never managed any of 
that,” she said.Sadie Darnell 
Darnell
 Jacobs
GET TO KNOW THE CANDIDATES: ACSO SHERIFF
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF student said she was turned 
away from voting Thursday for wearing 
a sweatshirt.
At about 10 a.m., Megan Morey, a 
UF ﬁ  nance freshman, had stood in line for about 15 minutes at the Tower Road Branch Library when a poll worker told her she couldn’t wear her hoodie while 
voting.
After returning home to change, the 
18-year-old cast her vote about an hour 
after the incident. The grey hoodie bears 
the letters C.H.W.C, which stands for 
Catholic Heart Work Camp, a religious 
service organization, Morey said.
Alachua County Supervisor of Elec-
tions Pam Carpenter could not be 
reached for comment, but in a state-
ment to TV20, Carpenter said if some-
one was turned away, the incident was a “worker error,” adding that she’s in-vestigating the matter to “make sure it 
never happens again.”
Florida law does not limit what can 
be worn to the polls. Political T-shirts 
and buttons can be worn so long as votes aren’t solicited within 100 feet of 
the entrance to a polling location.
“There’s no legitimate reason why I 
was turned away,” Morey said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org UF student in 
hoodie denied 
vote ThursdayJack JacobsA STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION IS 
PUSHING THE UNIVERSITY 
FOR SUPPORT.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
On Turlington Plaza, an outline of 
a body was chalked on the ground. 
Rana Al-Nahhas, the president of 
the UF chapter of Students Organize 
for Syria, said the chalk outline sym-
bolized how Syrian refugees could 
be part of the university, but they aren’t.
“The situation is a million times 
worse than what we’re portraying,” the 21-year-old UF psychology se-nior said. 
Tuesday, the UF organization 
held a silent protest to raise aware-
ness, asking UF to offer five schol-
arships to Syrian refugees coming to study in the U.S. 
On Turlington Plaza, members of 
the organization sat on the ground and held signs encouraging students to push the university to support their cause. 
Al-Nahhas said she hoped to get 
more than 1,000 signatures on a peti-tion to present to university admin-istration. 
In the past six years, the death 
toll has risen to more than 560,000 Syrians, most of whom were women and children, Al-Nahhas said. Last week, 35 people, mostly students, were killed in Idlib, Syria, she said.  
Al-Nahhas said five scholarships 
are not enough, but because the is-sue is controversial, she thinks it’s a good number to start with. 
“All we want is to raise aware-
ness and provide this humanitarian right that these people deserve,” she said.
Matt Fernandez, 20, signed the 
petition and said he barely noticed 
the protest on Turlington Plaza. 
“Everyone should have an equal 
opportunity to education,” the UF 
special education junior said. “It’s not their fault that their country doesn’t produce for them.” 
He said the protest was more 
peaceful than what you hear about in the news, adding that he thinks 
they were right in exercising their 
free speech.
“I think that they’re fighting for 
something that’s right,” he said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org 4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
tors. When no one came forward, it 
was the beginning of the end, Diaz said.
Juanita Pedraza, a 21-year-old 
UF microbiology and cell science senior, said the announcement didn’t come as a surprise. A few weeks ago, members of the staff told her about the possibility of closure.
She’s been going to Know 
Where Coffee, a short walk from campus, for the two years it’s been open, she said.
The staff has always been hard-
working and very invested in their products, she said. Guerrero’s per-sonal philosophy, she said, was that in order to truly love coffee and have a real experience with it, you have to understand how it is made.
The name, Know Where Cof-
fee, is a play on words based on that very philosophy: Customers should know where their brew comes from.
“Their name is what they’re 
about,” Pedraza said. “They’re re-ally passionate about what they do.”The feel and style of the coffee 
is based off of a coffee shop that Guerrero would visit every day while working in Miami, Diaz said.  At some point, the financial advis-er fell in love with the process of coffee and knew he had to open a shop in Gainesville, where he spent his college years.
“He wanted to bring the Miami 
experience to Gainesville since it didn’t have anything like it,” Diaz said.
Over the years, Pedraza said she 
came to consider the coffee shop staff to be her close friends.
“Last year we had a Thanksgiv-
ing,” she said. “It became about more than the coffee.”
@Jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org
COFFEE,  from pg. 1The coffee shop was not able to find investors to support itSHE ANNOUNCED PLANS 
TO FUND MENTAL-
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 
AND  COVER TEXTBOOK 
FEES.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF Student Body President Susan 
Webster took the University Audito-rium’s stage alone to give the State of the Campus Address on Tuesday night. 
In the address, Webster outlined 
Student Government’s accom-plishments over the last year and its future plans. Beforehand, UF President Kent Fuchs, Provost Jo-seph Glover and Vice President of Advancement Tom Mitchell spoke during a Panel on Preeminence, during which they described UF’s plan to be a top-10 public univer-sity to about 100 students and fac-
ulty members.  
During the address, Webster 
spoke about the opening of the 
Field and Fork Pantry, which pro-
vides free canned goods to anyone with a Gator 1 Card, and the Gator 
Career Closet, where students can 
borrow professional clothes and 
get free headshots.
“My job tonight is to educate 
you and update you on our Stu-
dent Body,” Webster said after she 
opened her speech with a moment 
of silence for Abigail Dougherty, a 
UF student who was killed Friday. 
Webster said SG plans to urge 
state legislatures to fund 23 full-time mental-health professionals 
for UF. 
“Mental-health initiatives are 
also at the forefront of what we 
do as students,” she said. “Right 
now, students have to wait months 
sometimes to see a mental-health professional.”
SG will expand the UF Safe 
Rides program to give students 
discounted Uber rides five days a 
week over a larger area, she said. 
Webster also announced SG’s 
goals, including a program to cover 
textbook fees for general education 
classes and an SG-sponsored bus 
to airports before academic breaks. 
For the textbook program, SG 
would purchase books for large 
general education classes, such as 
What Is The Good Life, and make 
the codes available online for stu-
dent use. The bus program would target international students, she 
said. 
Prior to the address, Fuchs, 
Glover and Mitchell outlined plans 
to make UF one of the best public universities in the nation. To do 
this, Fuchs said the university will 
improve the Gainesville commu-
nity, lower the student-to-faculty ratio and hire expert professors. 
“We want to hire faculty in 
those areas who are, or will be, 
the very best in their fields,” Fuchs 
said. 
Glover addressed UF’s gradua-
tion rate, as 67 percent of students graduate in four years and 87 per-
cent in six. He said although it’s a 
good rate nationally, he wants to increase it. 
“The state of Florida would like 
to see students move through a 
little faster,” he said. 
The administrators also an-
swered pre-submitted student questions including how students 
can best contribute to UF’s preemi-
nence.
“I would say graduate on time 
and get a good job or go to a good graduate school,” Glover said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org UF Student Body president announces future plans for students
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
UF Student Body President 
Susan Webster speaks to students and faculty members in the University Auditorium during the State of the Campus Address on Tuesday night. Webster outlined Student Government’s recent accomplishments and goals.
UF students hold  
silent protest for Syria 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
From left: Mashli Fleurestil, a 22-year-old UF biology senior; Rebecca Prince, an 18-year-old UF health science freshman; and Mariana Suguieda, a 19-year-old UF microbiology and cell science sophomore, hold signs to encourage students to sign a petition to bring Syrian refugees to UF.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Jenna White, a 22-year-old baker, types a novel for National Novel Writing Month on a 
tablet in Coffee Culture during the kickoff party for the month on Tuesday afternoon. 
“This year, I’m just kind of winging it, ” White said.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville church may get a new bas-
ketball court this month.
Gainesville Police Officer Bobby White, 
nicknamed the Basketball Cop, is planning to 
construct an NBA-sized, two-hoop basketball 
court at the Ignite Life Center through his Bas-
ketball Cop Foundation.
White said he hopes the latest court will 
be completed this month for teenagers who at-tend the church, located at 404 NW 14th Ave.
White said that after someone donated 
a basketball hoop to the church about three months ago, Ignite Life Center contacted him.
“I decided to go bigger than that and build 
a whole NBA court,” he said.
The new court is being sponsored by the 
law firm Fine, Farkash & Parlapiano, which is expecting to give between $4,000 and $5,000 to build it, said Julie A. Fine, an associate at-torney for the firm.
Through his foundation, which was cre-
ated in January after dash-cam footage of him playing basketball with kids after a noise complaint went viral, White has built a court in 
one of the kids’ backyards and at Upper Room Min-istries, located at 3575 NE 15th St. Last week, White’s 
work was recognized by 
the National Consortium for Academics in 
Sport. He won the 2016 Civic Leader Award.
Fine said she and the firm offered to spon-
sor the court to support the community.
“It just seemed like a really worthwhile 
project,” she said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgBasketball Cop Foundation 
to build NBA-sized court
White
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
At the end of Tuesday night’s Student 
Senate meeting, Senator Alyssa Bethencourt 
(Impact, Sophomore) announced a future resolution honoring Abigail Dougherty’s life. 
“I think it would be a really nice way to 
keep her memory alive here at the Univer-sity of Florida,” she said. 
Bethencourt announced the resolution 
for Dougherty at the end of the meeting, after senators struck down the only bill on 
the agenda and voted on a graduate replace-
ment seat. Bethencourt said the resolution should be ready for next week’s meeting. 
Dougherty was killed Friday when a gar-
bage truck struck her while she was riding her bike near University Avenue, according to Alligator archives. Bethencourt said she reached out to Dougherty’s roommate to write the resolution, and Bethencourt and 
other senators will edit it. 
“We felt like she would be the most 
raw person to get that information from,” 
Bethencourt said. 
During the meeting, a bill that would 
have given $2,170 to the Jamaican Student Association was removed from the agenda. It was struck down due to minor issues with the organization’s constitution, said Janae 
Moodie, the allocations committee chair-
woman. 
The bill was approved in the allocations 
committee but didn’t pass through the re-placement and agenda committee, Moodie said. There was no issue funding the orga-nization, which wants to use the money for its second annual Mr. and Miss Jamaican Student Association Pageant. 
“They need to add certain clauses,” she 
said. 
knewberg@alligator.org Senate honors UF student who 
died Friday in bike accidentBy Emma Green 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Jenna White spread tarot cards at Cof-
fee Culture on Tuesday, brainstorming 
ideas for a novel to be written within a month. 
The 22-year-old baker at the cafe was 
among eight people who showed up to start their stories as part of a kickoff party for National Novel Writing Month, which started Tuesday. Novels have to be at least 50,000 words and must be finished by Nov. 30. Participants are recommended to write 1,667 words a day.
As of now, Gainesville has 161 partici-
pants signed up, said Jen Kinser, an adult 
programming librarian for the Tower Road 
Branch Library and the municipal liaison for National Novel Writing Month.
“From my knowledge, it gets bigger ev-ery year,” the 32-year-old said. 
White has been aiming to write at least 
50,000 words for the month since 2008, a 
goal met at least once, White said. Some 
years, all-nighters have been pulled. Dur-ing White’s senior year of high school, staying up four consecutive nights led to a visit to the emergency room, White said.
Now, White’s writing is spaced out. 
White plans on writing about magical pi-rates this month.
“I’m just kind of winging it,” White 
said.
White and White’s best friend, Mires 
Wolfe, set up the writing meetup in the coffee shop to keep other participants ac-countable and to get inspiration from oth-ers.
“I’ve noticed it’s a lot easier to stay 
motivated when you have a community,” White said.Gainesville residents aim to write novels in a monthThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Solitude in a world ﬁ  lled with billions of  people
This weekend, I had the pleasure to ﬁ  nd 
that the band The Last Shadow Pup-pets covered a Leonard Cohen song ti-
tled “Is This What You Wanted.” This 
song talks about a breakup and how 
the separation has affected one of the two people. The part that immediately resonated 
with me was the verse that goes: “You deﬁ  ed 
your solitude/I came through alone.”
At this young age in my life, I have been 
able to appreciate the deﬁ  nition of solitude and how most of us experience it in a world 
ﬁ  lled with so many people. Solitude is bliss, some say. 
But what does it really mean? After so many years ﬁ  lled with changes and challenges, I think I am able to cope with the positive side of it. 
Once we start to gain control, consciousness and 
awareness of our bodies, actions and selves, life begins to seem a bit confusing to most of us. To grow up, go to prom, ﬁ  nd a date, get a college degree, buy a car, build a family, be happy and be successful are some of 
the goals we are given by our family members, teach-
ers, mentors and guides. The reality is that these are just suggestions, because in the real world, there isn’t a working formula. This now becomes even more terrify-
ing. How am I going to meet people who like the things 
I do? How am I going to ﬁ  nd a job I love? Where is my right place? How will I know I have arrived? 
Eventually, we decide to embrace an experimen-
tation period where we try to ﬁ  nd our herds, values, 
styles and personalities. During this process, which 
can take years or even a lifetime, we encounter vic-tories and failures. We meet people we love and they break our hearts. We make friends and then we don’t 
talk anymore. We choose our majors and after a cou-
ple of semesters, we drop off. Consequently, we begin to learn and know ourselves, either from those periods ﬁ  lled with crisis, solitude and despair or from our achievements, triumphs and re-wards.
For all of us out there struggling and going 
through periods when we feel like loneliness is our fate, do not worry. Trust the process, and let time do its magic. Use this alone time 
to work on you and accomplish things you 
think will make you improve as a human be-ing. Take some time and reﬂ  ect on how you want to see yourself a year from now, and trace the plan of how you are going to get 
there. 
For example, if you are lacking in conﬁ  dence, chal-
lenge yourself to embrace your sense of style and defy the rules of “pretty.”  Solitude is bliss if you appreciate 
the opportunity to get to know yourself and become 
empowered by it.
I would like to end this week’s column by sending 
my condolences to the friends, family and relatives of Abigail J. Dougherty. May all the light in the universe guide her young spirit and may this tragic event raise awareness in our society of the importance of taking 
care of one another.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays. Emails and their 
election impact
There’s more than enough chatter going on in the country 
about Hillary Clinton’s emails. Like Bernie Sanders said months ago, nobody wants to hear about these damn emails anymore. Even with the FBI re-opening the case in the wake of ex-congressman Anthony Weiner’s pre-
mature evacuation, voters seem to be over Clinton’s email ﬁ  -asco. As FBI Director James B. Comey said, we agree that Clin-ton’s handling of the emails was irresponsible, but it was by no means illegal. Like Clinton, we’re conﬁ  dent her political en-emies will, once again, be disappointed when the newest batch of emails really contains nothing controversial.
On the other side of the aisle, the Republican candidate 
seems to be dealing with his own set of lawsuits. While Clin-ton’s never seemed to make any ground (“No reasonable pros-
ecutor would bring such a case,” Comey said), Donald Trump 
seems to have no problems ﬁ  nding reasonable people who will attempt to prosecute him for a slew of crimes.
While Trump insists the women who are accusing him of 
sexual assault or attempted sexual assault are simply doing it for recognition, he has yet to give an answer on whether he’ll prosecute them for slander or libel after the election. Perhaps this is because not only is he going to lose such a case, but he will lose so badly that the world might learn these women are 
being honest. But Trump can’t necessarily run from or avoid all 
of these cases, because on Dec. 16, Donald Trump will be stand-ing trial against an anonymous “Jane Doe” who claims that the businessman assaulted her when she was 13.
To make matters worse, Sunday night, Senate Minority 
Leader Harry Reid claimed the FBI had “explosive information about close ties and coordination between Donald Trump, his top advisors, and the Russian government.” While we all know Sen. Reid is notorious for his daring anti-GOP claims in elec-
tion years, this one actually found some ground. Naturally, the 
FBI did some research. What they ﬁ  nd will shock some of you, disappoint a lot of you and persuade absolutely none of you to change your minds.
The FBI found several ties between many of Trump’s busi-
nesses and one of Russia’s largest banks. While details are still being worked out, Slate reported there has been a “sustained relationship between a server registered to the Trump Organiza-tion and two servers registered to an entity called Alfa Bank.” 
While we can’t quite yet say what that relationship is, some 
communication has been going on. Alfa Bank, mind you, is a bank reserved for Russia’s political and business elite.
Moreover, an overwhelming amount of evidence has sur-
faced this week claiming Trump’s companies have, according to Newsweek, “systematically destroyed or hidden thousands of emails, digital records and paper documents demanded in ofﬁ  cial proceedings, often in deﬁ  ance of court orders.” Now, of course, this isn’t the ﬁ  rst incidence of Trump hypocrisy, but 
with the way Trump demands his supporters to repeat “emails, 
emails, emails,” hopefully they’ll wake up and smell the irony.
Seriously, the fact that it’s gone on this long is absurd. 
Trump supporters are not wrong to criticize Clinton for her mis-handling of emails. That’s fair. But Trump is guilty of far worse crimes, and ﬁ  nally they’re catching up to him. It’s amazing that those who support him are able to justify child-rape allegations, sexual assault claims, the falsity of Trump University, overt racism, bigotry, sexism, the total inability to formulate actual 
domestic or international policies and possible ties with Rus-
sia’s elite. But now that he’s got some highly questionable and, honestly, incriminating emails in his past, it’ll be cute to watch them wiggle their way out of this one without stepping on their “Hillary’s e-mails” toes.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
“Use this alone time to work 
on you and accomplish things 
you think will make you 
improve as a human being.”WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Hello Gators,
First, I want to give a spe-
cial thank you to all of the stu-
dents involved with Gator Growl 
and Homecoming for their hard 
work in putting on a successful week of events!
This week is Civic Engagement Week. Planned by several UF Student Gov-
ernment agencies including External Af-fairs, Chomp the Vote and SG Productions, Civic Engagement Week is SG’s compre-
hensive effort to ﬁ  re up students to go out 
and vote on Election Day. This includes the Civic Engagement Fair in the Reitz Union Breezeway as well as the "Rock the Vote" 
concert with The All-American Rejects on 
Friday.
Tuesday was the State of the Campus 
Address and Panel on Preeminence. The address covered my ad-
ministration’s accomplishments and highlighted our future plans 
to continue moving Gators for-
ward. 
President Kent Fuchs, Provost Joseph 
Glover and Vice President for Advance-ment Tom Mitchell spoke about UF’s rise to preeminence while entertaining questions from the 
Student Body.
SG Health Affairs released its 
ﬁ  rst online newsletter. 
The newsletter strives to high-
light health resources at UF, 
health-related student organi-zations and mission trips, spe-
ciﬁ  c cabinet events, RecSports events and health issues affecting our university as 
well as local and national communities.
On Friday, UF Information Technology 
and Smathers Library will host the third 
annual Student Tech Fair. The event will 
take place on the North Lawn from 10 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. 
Students attending can enter a rafﬂ  e 
to win a UE Boom Waterproof Bluetooth speaker or a Polaroid Snap Instant Digital Camera.
Every Wednesday, come out to Turling-
ton Plaza from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. to hang out with your SG executive ofﬁ  cers and learn more about SG’s executive branch. 
The best part of representing students 
is being able to meet them and learn about their experiences at UF, so come out for some free food and prizes.
Make sure to follow my administration 
on Facebook (UF Student Government), 
Twitter (@UF_SG), Snapchat (@UFstu-
dentgov) and Instagram (@ufsg) to see what we’re up to throughout the year.
As always, please feel free to reach out 
with any comments, questions or concerns.
Go Gators!Susan Webster is the UF Student Body 
president. Her column appears monthly.
Last week I discussed at length a col-umn that appeared in the Alligator en-titled “Religious self-reﬂ  ection is nec-
essary,” in which the author (whom 
I will call Mr. Editorial, as the author 
was unnamed) took the position that the world’s religions need to come to an un-
derstanding of the social context they were 
born out of. I’m paraphrasing his words, but he argued we have morally progressed since the founding of Christianity, Judaism and Islam. As an example of this progression, 
Mr. Editorial highlighted the instance of a 
British Muslim school teaching its young girls that being beaten by one’s husband is morally permissible, using this to show 
religions need reform and need to morally 
improve. It is this idea of moral progression that I want to ﬂ  esh out in this column.
I think Mr. Editorial is right in condemn-
ing the moral dictates of this Muslim school. 
I think he is right because I believe all hu-
mans are equal, regardless of gender, race or class, and that it is morally reprehensible when a person is robbed of his or her in-herent dignity. Being abused by one’s spouse is, to me, a clear instance of a person not being 
treated as having equal worth. 
It seems Mr. Editorial sees life’s moral landscape through a simi-lar lens. Therefore, Mr. Editorial 
and I agree that any case in which 
a person is not treated with dig-nity and respect is well worthy of moral condemnation.
But what are the sources of our moral 
judgements? From where do we draw our moral intuitions? Personally, I see all of hu-manity as equal because I am a Christian. I believe God created all of mankind in His 
image, which means every person is inﬁ  -
nitely precious in God’s sight. That is the source of my egalitarian beliefs.
I assume, on the other hand, that Mr. 
Editorial is a secular person, one who does 
not believe in a radically personal creator. 
I wonder, then, where Mr. Editorial de-rives this notion that it is morally wrong to teach young girls that abuse is permissible. It seems, at least, that the moral standard by which he condemns the Muslim school is the egalitar-
ian ideal of universal equal rights, 
which the teachings of the school strongly break from.
The belief in the fundamental 
equality of everyone is one of the philosophical bedrocks on which Western democratic society was 
founded. But where is the origin of our cher-ished egalitarianism? The life and teachings 
of Jesus Christ and the Christian tradition. 
Luc Ferry, a prominent French philosopher and proponent of secular humanism, points this out in his “A Brief History of Thought.” 
Ferry says the notion of humans being of 
equal merit “may seem self-evident, but it was literally unheard-of at the time, and it turned an entire world-order upside down.” Because of this Christian idea, Ferry argues 
that “Christianity was to become the pre-
cursor of modern democracy.”
In other words, with the rapid growth of 
Christianity and its cultural inﬂ  uence came the ethic of equality and love on which the West based its very self. Historically speak-ing, this ethic would not have spread in a 
world without Christianity. The irony is, 
therefore, that Mr. Editorial would not be standing on an egalitarian ethical foothold, judging the imperfect religions of the world, 
if it were not for religion.
I am not saying Mr. Editorial is an im-
moral person who is dependent on Chris-
tianity for his moral intuitions. That would be a fallacy. I admire his ethics and his un-
wavering belief in their validity. I do think, 
however, that he should not ask religious believers to relax their faith without ﬁ  rst proving God does not exist and second un-
derstanding the moral code he uses against 
religion is itself a religious creation.
In short, I think he needs, as we all do, 
to reﬂ  ect a bit more on his philosophical assumptions before asking others to do the 
same.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and phi-
losophy sophomore. His column usually 
appears on Tuesdays.From your Student Body president: events for Civic Engagement Week
Secular self-reﬂ  ection is necessary for every single human being, part twoColumn
Column
Susan Webster
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org“The best part 
of representing 
students is 
being 
able to meet 
them.”8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Courtesy to the Alligator
Six signs were placed in Loring Park in St. Augustine that read “No Trespassing. ” 
Currently only one sign remains in the park.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer 
A group of artists is battling the city of St. 
Augustine to take down signs with UF’s name 
on them. 
On Oct. 19, Loring Park, a public park east 
of Flagler College, had signs reading “No Tres-passing” put up in an area used by street art-ists and musicians in the past. The artists are 
arguing that the space is public and that their 
First Amendment right to free speech is being violated. 
Ed Poppell, a UF manager of the property, 
said UF leases more than 30 properties from 
the state of Florida, including Loring Park. The 
signs were part of establishing the UF-leased land as a non-free speech zone, he said. 
“We just wanted to make sure the same 
rules that apply to the main campus in Gainesville apply in St. Augustine,” he said. Certain sections of campus are designated free speech zones, including Plaza of the Americas.
The signs have been a deterrent to visitors 
in St. Augustine, but Poppell said this was not the goal. The university wants people to con-tinue visiting the park but not use it as an area to sell artwork or assemble crowds.  
Attorney Thomas E. Cushman, who is rep-resenting the artists, said the group feels the signs are targeting them. 
Cushman said he has worked for artists 
with similar cases for more than 20 years. Of-ten, he said, the city of St. Augustine has tried to push its artists out of public areas. 
“Painting and drawing and creating art is 
public expression,” he said. “For some un-known reason, the city thinks it scares the tourists.”
Recently, when the signs were placed on 
the perimeter of the park, the city said it didn’t have any prior knowledge as to why the signs were put up, Cushman said. 
But Cushman said he submitted a public 
records request, which revealed that the city 
attorney’s ofﬁ  ce had emailed UF ofﬁ  cials re-
questing the implementation of signs to keep artists out.
John Regan, the St. Augustine city man-
ager, said UF has been managing Loring Park since 2010.
He said the park should stay accessible to 
the public despite UF’s management. 
“We understand the university wanted to 
control the property,” he said, “but it belongs to the state of Florida.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  St. Augustine park signs mandated by UF oﬃ   cials under review
By Cindy Barksi
Alligator Contributing Writer
Following a complete overhaul that cost more 
than $1 million, Gainesville Health and Fitness 
Women’s Center reopened Tuesday.
The two-story gym, located at 2441 NW 43rd 
St., Unit 15A, ﬁ  rst opened in 1984 but closed Sept. 28 for renovations that included new car-dio and strength-training equipment, said Wen-dy Ackerman, the gym’s operations manager.
“We basically gutted it and put it back togeth-
er,” Ackerman said following a ribbon-cutting ceremony that featured an appearance from UF mascots Albert and Alberta.
Of the three Gainesville Health and Fitness 
locations, including the gyms in Newberry and 
Tioga, the Gainesville location is the only fe-
male-oriented gym.
Within 20 minutes of opening its doors, more 
than 200 people ﬂ  ooded the gym.
Sylvie Beukelman, who has been a member 
of the gym for 20 years, said she enjoys the gym’s easy-to-use equipment and all-female staff.
“I don’t want to work out with men,” she 
said.Beukelman said she’d be at the gym at 9:45 
a.m. today, the gym’s ofﬁ  cial ﬁ  rst day, for a 
“body pump” class.
For Sherry Rothermel, 54, going to the gym is 
a way to empower herself.
A member of the Gainesville Health and Fit-
ness franchise since 1982, Rothermel said the 
gym provides an inviting environment to focus 
on her health.
“It’s nicer to come in here; it’s more homey 
and easier to be yourself, to be able to work on 
your own personal health goals,” Rothermel 
said.  After renovations, all-female gym reopens in Gainesville
WHAT’S AVAILABLE:
• Sauna
• Steam room• Jacuzzi• Queenax Functional Trainer• Kid’s room with free 
           babysittingWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new 
BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/
ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus 
rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-
9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-
16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Live Next to Campus
Big, clean, furnished room in 3/1.
$567/mo. UF Law housemates.
Call Connor: 904-718-5943      11-8-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the lon-
gest mountain chain on Earth above 
sea level?
2. ASTRONOMY: Europa is a moon 
of which planet in our solar system?
3. TRADITIONS: What is the tradi-
tional birthstone for February?
4. CHEMISTRY: What element has 
the chemical symbol Hg?
5. ANATOMY: How many chro-
mosomes do human beings normally 
have?
6. MOVIES: What was the first film 
directed and produced by a black film-
maker to win the Academy Award for Best Picture?
7. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
award-winning singer/songwriter 
once said, “I consider myself a poet first and a musician second. I live like a poet and I’ll die like a poet”?
8. MATH: What two letters are sym-
bols for 1,000?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: By 
what title is Jorge Mario Bergoglio 
better known?
10. GAMES: What is the name of the 
casino employee who takes bets and 
spins the wheel in roulette?
Answers
1. The Andes2. Jupiter3. Amethyst4. Mercury5. 23 pairs, or a total of 466. “12 Years a Slave” (Steve 
McQueen)
7. Bob Dylan8. M and K9. Pope Francis10. Croupier
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 31, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
ACROSS
1 Less-played
song, usually
6 Big name in big
projections
10 Skips, as TiVoed
ads
14 Like Andean
pyramids
15 Bumpkin
16 Touched down17 “Gotta go!”19 Without serious
thought
20 Cuts down
21 Single
22 Garson of
Hollywood
23 “Do it, __ will!”
24 Peter Parker’s
alarm system
27 Bed blossoms
29 Hyundai rival30 Vineyard cask
31 Stainless __
32 Agent33 “Looney Tunes”
stinker, familiarly
34 Kaiser roll
topping
38 Hide from a
hunter?
41 “Yet cease your
__, you angry
stars of heaven!”:“Pericles”
42 E-cigarette
output
46 Firefighter’s tool47 Lanai music
maker
48 Has a conniption
50 Henry VIII’s third
wife
53 “Noah kept bees
in the ark hive,”
e.g.
54 __ acid
55 Capp and
Capone
56 Poet Whitman
57 Manner
58 Sign of deceit,
and a hint to thispuzzle’s circledletters
61 Years, to Livy
62 Navigation
hazard
63 __-garde
64 Establishes65 Fancy jug66 Nutty green
sauceDOWN
1 Vatican
personnel
2 Show disdain for
3 Dessert drink
made from
frozen grapes
4 Weekly septet5 Disney doe
6 Modern
Persians
7 Subdued
8 Civil War
nickname
9 Boomer’s kid
10 ’70s-’90s African
state
11 Pasta preference
12 Forms a big stack13 Compound in
many disposablecoffee cups
18 Easy pace22 Govt. property
overseer
24 Corn Belt sight25 Barely makes,
with “out”
26 “Geez!”
28 When the NFL’s
regular season
begins
32 Canadian whisky
33 BlackBerries, e.g.35 Seattle’s __
Place Market
36 Antelopes, to
lions
37 At any point
38 Sleepover need
39 Check out
40 Lax43 Tropical fruits44 Rich45 Charges for use
of, as anapartment47 GI hangout48 Club owner?49 Toss from office51 County seat of
County Clare
52 Thanksgiving
decoration
56 “__ Only Just
Begun”:
Carpenters hit
58 Ship, to its crew
59 “Hee __”60 Go on and on
By Craig Stowe
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/02/1611/02/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 2, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and 
Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/7- 11/10 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.    11-7-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Designated drivers are the greatestSwimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
Love Hiking or Running?P/T position avail- to work with like minded folks.20 hr/wk inc Sat. or Sun. a must. Apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports.1504 NW 13 St. 1 m N of UF    11-2-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Looking for a student with strong excel/num -
ber skills, accurate and details oriented to support our digital marketing team. Flexible 
schedules (4/5 hours a week). Join our team! Email resume and cover letter to morandot -
ti@dibari-id.com or call  305 570 9385    11-
7-16-5-14
Office Assistant: One of these passions- FX Show Justified/health & fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, love to read, math interest. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsroth -
stein@gmail.com     11-7-16-5-14
PT cleaners needed for home/apt/office cleanings ..day and night positions available. $ 8.50/hr weekly pay &must own a reliable car and be able to pass a drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868    11-8-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida women's basketball ranked in preseason poll
The UF women's basketball team is ranked No. 20 in the Associated Press 
Preseason T op 25 poll, released Tuesday. UF's ranking marks the seventh time it has opened its season in the T op 25.Senior Spencer Liang is playing 
her best tennis this season, and her teammates and coaches have taken notice. Read the story on pg. 16.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Surrounded by nearly 2,000 
pounds of offensive linemen, 
Luke Del Rio picked up the check at a nearby Italian restaurant last 
Thursday. 
Each week, Florida’s quarterback 
takes about five or six of his linemen out to dinner to eat on his dime, a 
gesture Del Rio began before UF’s season opener. 
As expected, the 300-pounders 
are grateful.
“It don’t get no better than free 
food, right?” sophomore Martez Ivey said. But the meals have led to more 
than just full stomachs. 
Del Rio has had a freer pocket 
to throw from as a result of the 
dinners and the chemistry he and 
his offensive line have formed.Florida’s line has allowed just 
nine sacks through seven games, 
tied for the 12th fewest in college football. 
That number is a dramatic 
decrease from the FBS-most 45 sacks the unit surrendered in 14 games last year. UF's offensive line forming chemistry, seeing progress
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain (center) talks with offensive lineman Martez Ivey (73) during Florida's 38-28 loss to T ennessee in Knoxville on Sept. 24. Ivey was named the Southeastern Conference Offensive Lineman of the Week on Monday for his performance in UF's 24-10 win over Georgia on Saturday. 
FLORIDA WON THE 
TOURNAMENT  
LAST SEASON.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
After 17 games, a regular-season 
record of 13-4 and one of the toughest schedules in the Southeastern Conference, the Gators are poised to make another deep postseason run.
But even though Florida has seen 
success on the field during the regular season, it has also had to learn how to find the positives in its failures.
“I think you can always go back 
and say you can change things in the season. Obviously we wish we could have won the SEC, change some of those games,” senior forward Savannah Jordan said Monday. “But I’m also thankful for those games because I think we learned a lot from those losses. Like I said, we are right where we need to be.”
Today, the No. 15 Gators (13-4, 8-3 
SEC) open up postseason play in the quarterfinals of the SEC Tournament in Orange Beach, Alabama, in a rematch against the Missouri Tigers, who the Gators defeated 1-0 Thursday in Columbia.
And while Florida didn’t repeat as 
SEC regular season champions, they have the opportunity to win back-to-back SEC tournaments, something the soccer program hasn’t done since winning six-consecutive conference 
Gators open up SEC tournament play against MissouriSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15Del Rio takes the group out for dinner once a week
Jordan
14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
Through the ﬁ  rst 22 matches of 
the season, toughness has been the 
driving force for Florida’s promis-
ing start.
On Monday, coach Mary Wise 
said it takes more than just talent 
to boast a 10-1 Southeastern Con-
ference record.
“I love to see the grit by our 
team,” Wise said on Monday. 
“To come back and win (when 
we’re down) … we’ve played really well.”
A two-match weekend at home 
in the Lemerand Athletic Center 
saw the No. 6 Gators (20-2,10-1 
SEC) ﬁ  nish their opponents off in straight sets, giving them six sweeps in their last seven matches.
And although the box score 
shows dominating performances by the Gators, the matches still haven’t been easy.
In Friday night’s match against Ole Miss, Florida had trouble cre-ating a sizable lead. The ﬁ  rst two sets were won by a combined ﬁ  ve points, and UF trailed by seven points nearing the middle of the 
third set.
However, the Gators used their 
veterans’ impressive play and a 
strong offensive push to rally past the Rebels for a sweep.
“When you play players like 
Rhamat (Alhassan), Carli (Snyder), 
Alex (Holston), that can really take 
over a set,” Wise said.
“That’s afforded us to win those 
matches in three.”
While the victory was an im-
pressive one, some of the team’s weaknesses were on full display. After holding its previous ﬁ  ve opponents to under .200 hitting 
percentages, the defense gave up 
some big hits, allowing the Rebels to work themselves into a rhythm at times.
But the Gators made adjust-
ments on short notice against LSU on Sunday.
Holding the Tigers to a .022 hit-
ting percentage, Florida allowed just 27 kills, its lowest total al-lowed in SEC play this season.
Apart from showcasing the 
veterans’ ability to dominate, the weekend also gave some younger players valuable experience and helped carve out roles for them in conference play.
Freshman middle blocker Dar-
rielle King had her best perfor-mance in SEC play so far, totaling six kills and four block assists on an efﬁ  cient .625 hitting percentage 
against the Tigers.
Wise was also impressed with 
other youngsters who don’t neces-
sarily ﬁ  ll up the stat sheet, such as freshman defensive specialist Allie 
Gregory.
“Allie Gregory has grit,” Wise 
said of the Louisville native. “I 
think there’s something in the wa-
ter at Louisville, Kentucky … you have to be pretty gritty to survive 
that.”
Next, the Gators must prepare 
for a road match against Georgia tonight.
And while improvement is al-
ways a driving force as the season 
progresses, Wise sees the beneﬁ  t of 
having so many different players to turn to for quality time.
“When we’re in system, we 
have so many options,” Wise said. 
“If we can give Allie (Monserez) 
all those options, then we become hard to guard.”
@skylerlebron
slebron@alligator.org 
 Toughness a key component of No. 6 Florida’s success
UF has swept six of its last seven matches
WHERE DOES FLORIDA RANK 
NATIONALLY?
• No. 1 in hitting percentage (.334)
• No. 7 in assists per set (13.55)
• No. 13 in blocks per set (2.86)
• No. 14 in kills per set (14.32)
• No. 14 in opponent hitting 
percentage (.155 )Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Allie Monserez (22) hits the ball as Rhamat Alhassan (1) looks on during Florida’s 3-0 win over Ole Miss 
on Friday in the Lemerand Center. UF coach Mary Wise praised the team’s toughness on Monday.
“I think there’s something 
in the water at Louisville, 
Kentucky ... you have to be 
pretty gritty to survive that.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coachWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
tournaments from 1996 to 2001.
Florida has also won the three of the last 
six SEC tournaments.
But in order to win again, it will ﬁ  rst have 
to get past the Tigers.
“We just beat them 1-0 at their place, so 
I am pretty sure it is going to be a physical 
match,” Jordan said. “And they are going 
to have something to prove from that. But I 
think our team is ready for that matchup.”
Throughout the last eight games, Florida 
has been playing its best soccer of the season.The Gators went 7-1, with their only 
loss coming against undefeated No. 2 South 
Carolina on the road in double overtime.
UF’s defense has also stepped up during 
that period, only allowing two goals and forcing six shutouts.
“The coolest thing about this season is that 
we have grown every single game, and I think that if we can just keep doing that going into postseason,” Gabby Seiler said, “I honestly think this team hasn’t even peaked yet.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg13Florida has won three of the last six SEC Tournaments
Sure, it’s hard to solely attribute the offensive line’s improved 
play to a weekly dinner. 
But clearly it’s had some effect, even in each lineman’s 
attitude during games.
“The ﬁ  rst time we had it, I felt like (Del Rio) had our backs,” 
Ivey said. “That made me want to ﬁ  ght for him a little bit more.”
Del Rio, who suffered a knee injury six weeks ago against 
North Texas, doesn’t plan on stopping the dinners any time soon.  
The redshirt sophomore knows how important they are for 
the offensive unit to gel. 
“You can have a lot of talented guys, but if they don’t work 
well as a unit, then they’re not going to be very good,” Del Rio said. “Every play, those ﬁ  ve guys are on the ﬁ  eld, and they have to work together. Our offensive success depends on how well they play.”
Across the line — from junior left tackle David Sharpe to 
redshirt junior center Cam Dillard to freshman right tackle Jawaan Taylor — each player has noticed a difference because of their weekly gatherings.
“The room feels great,” Dillard said. “Everybody feels like 
we’re coming together and we’re doing what we’re capable of.”
The one area Dillard said has especially improved? Pass 
protection. 
And although the group gave up three sacks to Georgia, it 
was key in the run game. 
When Del Rio faltered at times, running back Jordan Scarlett 
often carried the ball behind his heavy-pushing offensive linemen. 
Even coach Jim McElwain praised the unit for controlling 
the line of scrimmage against the Bulldogs, something he hopes it does every game. 
“They are starting to see the importance of playing with a 
sense of urgency, a pad level and a ﬁ  nish,” he said. 
And as long as they’re well fed, expect UF’s offensive line to 
keep progressing.
“There’s so much more left out there for us to continue to 
grow on,” Dillard said. 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg13Florida gave up three sacks last weekend against Georgia
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio calls out a play during Florida's 13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Oct. 1 in Nashville, T ennessee.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Above: Meggie Dougherty Howard (28) watches her corner kick sail toward the 
net during Florida's 6-0 win over Alabama on Oct. 20 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Dougherty Howard has scored six goals this season.Right: The Florida soccer team huddles during its match against Alabama. 
GAME INFO:
What: SEC T ournament Quarterfinals
Who:  Florida vs. Missouri
When:   8:30 P .M. on SEC Network
Where:  Orange Beach, Alabama16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2016
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
It isn’t too common for a ten-
nis match to last three hours. 
But that’s part of Spencer Li-
ang’s game.
The senior played a match 
that lasted that long in the open-
ing round of the ITA Regionals in October, where she advanced to the singles semifinal round. 
“I can stay out there as long 
as it takes,” Liang said.
So far, Liang has impressed 
this season. She won a doubles 
title at the Duke Bonk Invitation-
al in September, a tournament where she also finished in third place in her singles draw.
And it’s because of her relent-
less playing style.
“It’s really difficult to do,” UF 
coach Roland Thornqvist said. 
“She’s so fast and so skilled at 
playing defense that players tend to begin to take more risks when they’re fatigued, and that’s when Spencer is at her best.”
Using her naturally defen-
sive mindset and her speed to run down and return every ball, Thornqvist said that her ability to hit the ball above opponents’ shoulders makes it difficult on opposing players.
“I think that really frustrates 
them because they don’t want to be out there,” Liang said.
 “If I needed to, I could have 
played more matches.”
The senior said the duration 
of her matches makes it easy for her to get under her opponents’ skin.
“I think it just frustrates my 
opponent,” Liang said. 
“They know that they have to 
be willing (to play) really long points and really long matches most of the time in order to win.”
And while Liang’s style of 
play helps in her own individ-ual matches, senior Kourtney Keegan said it also benefits the rest of the team in practice. 
“It’s not easy to play against 
someone that’s going to hit every ball back,” Keegan said.
“It makes everyone else’s 
game better.”
Although her play has result-
ed in an overall singles record of 34-14 in her two years at Florida, the next step in elevating her play prior to the regular season, Thornqvist and Liang said, is be-
ing more aggressive offensively.And in her final year as a 
Gator, Keegan said Liang’s im-
provement is easy to see. Last year, Liang was undefeat-
ed in Southeastern Conference singles play and finished the Fall ranked No. 66 in ITA doubles. 
But Thornqvist said she’s 
playing at an even higher level. 
“She’s playing her best tennis by far for us right now (in) her senior year,” Thornqvist said. 
“And that’s always a coach’s 
dream.”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org Senior’s style of play helping Florida women’s tennis team  
She won a doubles title this season
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Spencer Liang returns a ball during the ITA Regional Championships in October at the Ring T ennis 
Complex. “She’s playing her best tennis by far for us right now, ” UF coach Roland Thornqvist said.
