We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 45 MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
Who will be the Florida football 
team’s breakout player?
After a slow start, freshman Tyrie Cleveland 
has impressed for UF, pg. 13
Re-enactors act out the Battle of Gainesville
See the photo story online.
UF students celebrate in traditional Indian dance
Hundreds danced at the annual Garba celebration, pg. 5Early voting starts today
See our guide to voting in Gainesville, pg. 3
HE DISCUSSED COLLEGE 
AFFORDABILITY AND 
EQUAL PAY.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Side by side, Gainesville Mayor 
Lauren Poe and Democratic vice 
presidential candidate Tim Kaine did the Gator Chomp on Sunday after-noon. 
Kaine, who spoke to a crowd of 
about 1,200 on the Reitz Union North Lawn, admitted he just learned how to do the UF tradition backstage. 
“I was doing it wrong because I 
was left-handed,” he said. 
Kaine came to Gainesville on 
Sunday as a part of an early-voting rally campaign that’s taking place 
throughout Florida. He touched on 
college affordability and making in-state tuition free, equal pay for women in the workforce and raising the minimum wage, all while taking jabs at Republican presidential can-didate Donald Trump. Early voting in Gainesville begins today. 
“You guys are absolutely rock-
solid critical to this election,” he told the crowd, suggesting Florida’s sta-tus as a swing state could decide the winner of the election. 
Friends Alex Gimbel, 22, and 
Corey Jones, 23, showed up a few minutes after attendees began ﬁ  lter-ing in. The pair, who consider them-selves “big-time Democrats,” agreed that despite not knowing a lot about Kaine, the event was a way to hear the vice presidential candidate’s thoughts in person. 
“Tim Kaine is a human hug,” 
Gimbel, a UF political science senior, said. “He just seems like a gentle person.” 
“He is,” chimed Jones, a UF sus-
tainable development practice grad-uate student. “He seems like a nice  Kaine calls for student votes
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and vice presidential candidate Tim Kaine do the Gator Chomp together. 
Kaine remarked that he ﬁ  rst did the Gator Chomp left over right because he’s left-handed, but he was corrected before taking the stage. 
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
West University Avenue resem-
bled a moving rainbow Saturday afternoon, with hundreds of peo-ple carrying colorful ﬂ  ags as they marched for LGBTQ+ pride.
At the parade’s ﬁ  nal resting 
spot, Bo Diddley Community Plaza, 17-year-old Jasper Suskin wrapped himself in a pink-and-light-blue ﬂ  ag, a symbol of transgender pride.
After ﬁ  ve years of attending the 
Pride Parade and Pride Festival, an-nual free events held by the Pride Community Center of North Cen-tral Florida since the ’90s, Suskin said the positive, inclusive atmo-sphere keeps him coming back.
“I’m all about equality,” he 
said, smiling.
About 5,000 people gathered 
throughout the day on the plaza, listening to live music and watch-ing dance performances until about 9 p.m. At a Kid’s Pride station, chil-dren got their faces painted and did cartwheels.Helen James-Storey, the vice 
president of the center, said this 
year’s festival saw the transgender 
community represented more than 
ever before.
In years past, she said, people 
asked her where to ﬁ  nd organiza-
tions supporting transgender peo-
ple. She didn’t have many places 
to send them, she said.
But this year, of the more than 
40 tents at the plaza advertising 
local organizations, several were  A day of pride: Thousands attend 
LGBTQ+ celebration in Gainesville
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
From left: Will Dorm, 18, and Tyler Walters, 16, enjoy music and 
each other’s company on the lawn of Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Saturday. The couple came from St. Augustine to celebrate at the Pride Festival. Photo story on page 8.
THE SHUTTLE WILL BEGIN 
RUNNING AT 12:30 P .M. FOR 
THE NEXT TWO WEEKS. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
An organization is helping UF 
students get to the polls for early 
voting today. 
For Florida’s Future will start shuttling students at 12:30 p.m. to submit early ballots for the 2016 
U.S. and local elections. The shut-tle, which will run continuously 
throughout the day, will pick up 
students at the parking lot near Little Hall and take them to the Ala-
chua County Supervisor of Elections 
ofﬁ  ce, located at 515 N. Main St., where students can cast their vote.
Erin Jensen, the organization’s press assistant, said students can ﬁ  ll 
out an online form so the organiza-
tion can plan to ﬁ  ll a 12-person van. 
“We wanted to offer an opportu-
nity to pick students up where they are and take them right to the poll-ing station,” she said. 
Early voting gives college stu-
dents with unpredictable schedules a chance to cast their ballot before 
Nov. 8, Jensen said. Despite the organization’s sup-
port of Democratic nominees, Jen-
sen said any student is welcome to ride along. 
Sean Turner, 22, said he is look-
ing forward to voting early in this year’s election. 
“In the last election, I ended 
up having to wait quite a while to vote,” the UF psychology and phi-
losophy alumnus said. He said he’s conﬁ  dent in who 
he’s voting for and doesn’t need to 
wait until Election Day to make his decision. 
“The more people who vote 
early, the less chaotic it will be on Election Day,” Turner said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  Organization oﬀ  ers students a ride to early-voting poll SEE KAINE,  PAGE 4
SEE PRIDE,  PAGE 8LOCALSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome political watch 
party
Join the Hippodrome State 
Theatre for the election-night party Nov. 8. The Hippodrome basement will be open to 
the public for this can’t-miss 
event. This watch party is free 
to attend. The bar will open 30 minutes before the watch par-
ty begins. Some Americana-
themed Hippodrome specials will be served. Grab your friends and a cocktail to enjoy this politically charged event (that’s all in good fun).
RUB Entertainment's Rock n' 
TalkElvis Presley is one of the big-gest icons in music history. Since releasing his first album 60 years ago, he has left his mark on American culture in a big way. UF College of Journalism and Communications professor David Carlson will be giving a talk on Elvis and his contribu-tions to rock 'n' roll and soci-ety. This event will take place Wednesday in the Reitz Union, Room 3320, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Light refreshments will be served. 
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be food, enter-tainment and more than 200 vendors selling arts and crafts. On Saturday, there will be an auction of donated items from vendors from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. For more information email micafest@micanopyfallfesti-val.org or call 352-466-7026.
Glam Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsGainesville’s largest indie craft show is accepting applications for its Dec. 4 event. Artists and crafters who make unique, giftable goods are encouraged to apply. The application dead-line is Sunday. Apply online at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Has integration failed in 
Florida?Flagler College professor Michael Butler will be speak-ing about his book “Beyond Integration: The Black Freedom Struggle in Escambia County, Florida, 1960-1980” on Wednesday at noon in Pugh Hall, Room 210, as part of the 
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Brown Bag series. The 
book is a new interpretation of 
the Civil Rights Movement in Florida, which places police 
brutality, Confederate imag-
ery and white resistance at the 
center of the narrative. Light 
refreshments will be provided. For more information visit 
oral.history.ufl.edu.
Dumbledore's Army Training 
Camp
Come out to Dumbledore's 
Army Training Camp this 
Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 
p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for Butterbeer, a photo booth, an obstacle 
course, DIY charm bracelets, 
potions, spell writing, riddles, 
raffle contests and much more.
Free English classes and citi-
zenship classesThe Latina Women’s League is offering free English class-es Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Alachua County Library Millhopper Branch. Anyone looking to improve his or her conversational English can at-tend. For more information visit latinawomensleague.org.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
The organization meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators page on Facebook. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are em-powered to develop commu-nication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confi-dence and personal growth.”
STRIVE at GatorWell’s 
Sexual Consent Health Communication CampaignAre you and your friends clear about sexual consent? Relying on nonverbal communication or cultural scripts can result in sexual assault. Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell has cre-ated a Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign to help reduce the incidence of sexual assault through knowl-edge, belief and behavior change. Check it out at gator-
well.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact 
Rita Lawrence at rital@ufsa.
ufl.edu for more information 
and to request materials.
3rd annual Day of Grace, open 
house at Grace Marketplace
On Nov. 12 from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m., Grace Marketplace will host an open house. Attendees 
will be able to enjoy a catered 
picnic lunch, listen to live mu-
sic by The Jazz Bandits and Uptown Swing, take a tour of the homeless shelter, find 
volunteer opportunities, par-
ticipate in a pickup kickball 
game, yoga class or chair mas-sage and find out about all of the great things happening at 
Grace Marketplace. While the 
event is free, donations are ap-
preciated.
Apply Now for 2017-2018 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a 2017-2018 FAFSA now. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your 2017-2018 FAFSA from the federal pro-cessor is Dec. 15. You must be an admitted student and have met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or as-sistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid ad-viser through sfa.ufl.edu/con-tact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  80° LOW  53°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 45
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
EARLY VOTING
WHAT YOU NEED:
• Valid picture ID, including: Florida driver’s 
license, student ID and debit or credit card
WHEN:
• 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. every day from today to Nov. 5
WHERE:
• Supervisor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce: 515 N. Main St., Suite 100 
• Millhopper Branch Library: 3145 NW 43rd St.
• T ower Road Branch Library: 3020 SW 75th St.THE BALLOT (ABRIDGED):
• U.S. Senator
• District 3 U.S. Representative
• District 8 State Senator
• District 10, 21 State Representatives
• Alachua County Sheriff
• District 1, 3, 5 Alachua County Commissioners
• Florida Supreme Court Justices
• Florida District 1 Court of Appeals Judges
• Four state, two county amendments
Source: Alachua County Supervisor of Elections4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
guy.”
Before Kaine, other speakers like 
Jake Best, president of Gators 4 Hill-
ary; democratic U.S. Senate nominee Rod Smith and U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson spoke about the importance of early voting and supporting Clinton in the upcoming election. 
Rachel Disesa, 42, sat in the shade 
of the Reitz Union as she waited for 
Kaine to speak. 
“I think this is an absolutely his-toric election,” the UF agricultural 
education doctoral student said.
As a working single mother and 
student, Disesa said she’s made sure that both of her sons are politically aware. Her younger son Luke McG-riff, 8, chose his own Clinton shirts, 
she said. 
“We have to teach our children 
their vote does matter,” Disesa said. 
On stage, Kaine made sure to 
address Trump’s statement on not 
accepting the election results if he loses. 
“There’s a word for that, it’s called ‘sore loser,’” Kaine told the crowd, who responded with a cheer. “I don’t think he’s going to do any soul searching or reach any conclu-sions.” 
Gainesville resident Michael Bar-
barette said he enjoyed listening to 
Kaine speak. 
“It was inspiring to listen to the 
next vice president of the United 
States,” the 56-year-old said. 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org KAINE,  from pg. 1GNV mayor, Florida senators also called for early votingBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
As U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman 
Schultz spoke to a group of prospec-tive Hillary Clinton volunteers Friday night, a group of Bernie Sanders sup-porters protested her presence, with 
one interrupting her speech.
Inside the Gainesville Police sta-
tion, the former chairwoman of the 
Democratic National Committee spoke about the importance of the presidential election and trained Clinton supporters to canvass for the candidate.
Outside, a group of about 15 pro-
testers argued Wasserman Schultz shouldn’t have bothered.
Their signs read “Democracy is 
Dead” and “Arrest Debbie,” while another simply said “Emails.”
The protest, organized by the 
Gainesville Wants Bernie Sanders Facebook page, was about a trove of leaked DNC emails that appeared to 
show that Wasserman Schultz and 
other staff members plotted to un-dermine Sanders’ primary run.
“I do not trust her,” said Miguel 
Valdez, a UF alumnus who acted as a District 5 Sanders delegate during the primaries. “I feel like her pres-ence here is unwelcome.”He said the released emails, dis-
covered by WikiLeaks, implied Was-serman Schultz used her position in 
the DNC to help Clinton. That rev-
elation, which led to her resignation, caused many Sanders supporters to feel disenfranchised, he said.
Inside the station, toward the end 
of Wasserman Schultz’s speech, one protester began yelling about vol-unteering for Sanders, although the Vermont senator has endorsed Clin-
ton.
“Good for you,” Wasserman 
Schultz quickly retorted.
As the man continued to shout, 
she spoke over him until the crowd 
drowned out the man with bellow-ing chants of “Hillary.”
Megan Kincaid, a Santa Fe Col-
lege biology sophomore, said she 
was excited to hear Wasserman 
Schultz speak and begin canvassing for Clinton.
The 20-year-old said she was im-
pressed with how Wasserman Schul-tz handled the Sanders’ supporter’s interruption and with how support-ive the room was.
“She shut him down,” she said.
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.orgBernie supporters protest Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s GNV visit
Jasmine Osmond / Alligator Staff
T en protesters pose for a picture with signs that read “We Want Our $9000.00 Back” and “Arrest 
Debbie” against Wasserman Schultz. The protest was organized by the Gainesville Wants Bernie Sanders Facebook page on Friday night.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
With Halloween just a week away, some 
residents faced their fears Saturday — and 
partook in a beer garden to ease their nerves.
At the 12th Annual Bat Festival, held at 
the Lubee Bat Conservancy, about 6,000 guests were invited to meet and learn about the sanctuary’s fuzzy flying residents, with admission fees going toward keeping the bats 
fed.
Anthony Mason, the headkeeper at the 
shelter, said he enjoys hosting the festival 
around Halloween and opening the facility to the public, as it helps debunk any negative notions they may have about bats.
“This is the time of year when people are 
thinking about bats and associating them with scary ideas and vampires,” he said. 
“What better time to invite people out and 
dispel some of those myths?”
After seeing a turnout of about 60 people 
12 years ago, Mason said the festival has grown year after year, with between 5,000 and 6,000 people showing up last year. Sat-urday saw a slightly larger crowd, he said.
And as the tradition grows older, new 
attractions are added every year. This year, it was a beer garden, with bartenders from the Hogtown Brewers. Several locally brewed beers were served from breweries like Swamp Head Brewery, First Magnitude Brewing Company and Infinite Ale Works.
Of all of the private tours and smaller 
functions hosted at the facility throughout 
the year, Mason said the bat festival is the 
conservancy’s biggest fundraising event — it costs $50,000 a year to run — and the festival is its best chance to raise awareness of the threats bats face in the wild.
Gainesville resident and first-time festi-
val attendee Talbott Hwa-Sanderson walked around the shelter as bats ate fruit from jack-o’-lanterns in their cages. He said he was im-
pressed with all the bats and other creatures 
housed at the conservancy.
“I hope (the festival) helps give this place 
the exposure it needs,” he said.New beer garden, large 
turnout at annual Bat FestivalHE’LL BE SPEAKING  
ABOUT HIS BUSINESS  
AND CAREER. 
By Stefano Ferreyros
Alligator Contributing Writer 
American fashion designer and busi -
nessman Steve Madden is coming to UF 
today.
Madden is speaking at Norman Hall, 
Room 137, at 5:30 p.m. for a free event, titled Sole Sessions, hosted by College
-
Fashionista and UF’s Retail Society. Those interested in attending must RSVP online to attend the event. 
Amy Levin, the founder of CollegeFash
-
ionista, a fashion-trend media site, will be asking Madden about his career before letting students ask questions, said Katie Fabry, the marketing manager at Colleg
-
eFashionista. During the event, Madden will also talk about his business ideas, how he is self-made and what is next for him.“The choice to go to the University of 
Florida was primarily Steve’s idea,” she said. 
Adriana Gurdian, the president of UF‘s 
Retail Society, said representatives from CollegeFashionista reached out to the or
-
ganization over the summer to coordinate this event.
“This is the biggest event that has come 
across our table,” the 20-year-old UF mar
-
keting junior said. “To have such a big fig -
ure come to our university is something that’s a really big deal for the business school in general.” 
Fabry said the event will be the first 
time the website is collaborating with UF. At the end of the event, Madden will be giving $10 Uber vouchers and gift cards to use on his merchandise at a shopping par
-
ty, which will follow the discussion and will be at the Dillard’s in Oaks Mall.
“(Madden) really wants to make it a 
learning experience for every student,” Fabry said. “Not just those who are inter
-
ested in fashion.”Steve Madden to speak at UF
WHERE KAINE IS GOING NEXT: 
Florida Democrats Early Voting Rally in MiamiDoors Open: 10 a.m.When: 11:30 a.m. todayWhere: Florida International University, Modesto A. Maidique Campus, Lawn adjacent to the Graham Center’s Einstein’s Bagels, 11200 SW Eighth St., Miami
Florida Democrats Early Voting Rally in West Palm Beach 
Doors Open: 1:30 p.m.When: 3:30 p.m. todayWhere: Meyer Amphitheater, 105 Evernia St., West Palm BeachBy Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
Walter Anderson slumped over 
his horse Sunday, feigning injury 
during a re-enactment of the Battle of Gainesville.
About 50 Civil War re-enactors 
met on a large, grassy ﬁ  eld in Archer to recreate the Aug. 17, 1864 skir-mish. Dressed in uniform, they hid behind shrubs and shot riﬂ  es that 
ﬁ  red blank rounds.
For Anderson, a 69-year-old Viet-
nam War veteran dressed as a cav-
alry soldier, the re-enactment serves as a way to preserve history.
“If you don’t tell those stories, then they are lost,” he said.
The original battle, fought among 
about 350 soldiers, was sparked by 
a conﬂ  ict over supplies during the 
war, said Keith Kohl, a 48-year-old Florida Department of Health em-ployee who dressed as a Confederate lieutenant colonel.
In an effort to cut off supply lines 
in Florida, Union soldiers raided a Confederate supply station in what is now downtown Gainesville, he said.
Since he ﬁ  rst attended a re-enact-
ment of the battle at 14 years old, it has changed locations many times, taking place at Poe Springs Park and near the Matheson History Museum, among other sites.
Bob Hink, a 49-year-old mainte-
nance worker, bore the Confederate ﬂ  ag before feigning his death.
Hink said he attends 15 to 17 liv-
ing-history events per year. He said it feels good to recreate events that played a role in shaping the country.
“It’s really rewarding for me to 
tell someone something they didn’t know about the Civil War,” he said. “We wouldn’t have our country if it wasn’t for that.” MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Hundreds of students twirled 
in colorful skirts Friday night, cel-ebrating another year of experi-ences. 
About 300 students attended 
the annual Garba celebration at the UF Florida Gym. The UF In-dian Student Association co-spon-sored the event with the UF Indian Graduate Student Association, said Praveen Varanasi, the president of ISA. Men and women who partici-pated in the dance wore colorful garments and performed around a 
non-religious statue in the center of 
the room. 
Even though Garba is Hindu by 
nature, the event was non-religious and everyone was welcome, Vara-nasi said. The dance celebration represents the new coming of sea-sons and experiences.
“It’s beautiful,” the 21-year-old 
UF economics, political science and sustainability studies senior said. “The entire thing is just one giant display of unity.”
Sanjana Bhargava and Mughil 
Sriram, both 18-year-old UF mi-crobiology freshmen, attended a dance lesson to prepare for the event. The pair agreed that learn-ing the dances can be intimidating because some people have been doing this dance all their lives, but the community is accepting and 
the dance was easy to pick up.
Bhargava said her favorite part 
was being able to dress up.
“It’s great to just get out there 
and dance,” she said. 
This was Sriram’s ﬁ  rst Garba, 
and she said the dancing was her 
favorite part. 
“This is a new experience for 
me, and it’s really fun,” she said. “There’s lots of fun people and nice dresses.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org UF s tudents celebrate in 
traditional Indian dance
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Civil War re-enactor and Vietnam War veteran Walter Anderson, 69, 
rides his horse, Sonney Boy, during the re-enactment. 
 Civil War re-enactors showcase GNV battleThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
RIP to the birds, the bees and sex euphemisms
An aspect of parenting we usually like 
to avoid is the birds and the bees. The beasts with two backs. The dirty deed. Dipping the wick — OK. No one says that, but that’s the point. Have you no-
ticed how we have so many euphemisms for sex? That shows just how much we try to avoid the conversation, but it’s necessary in order to be healthy and safe.
Our hesitancy to do that is part of the rea-
son Naomi Ardjomand-Kermani calls the U.S. a sex-phobic nation. Naomi, who uses they/them pronouns, is the linkage to care coordinator for the Well-Florida Council. Besides being the one we have to thank 
for the dental dams on campus —  all hail Naomi —  they 
are an HIV-prevention specialist and sex-education enthu-siast.
If you’re not too sure what a dental dam is, they’re the 
one to talk to, and it shows why their work is so impor-tant. Ardjomand-Kermani is working to bring awareness on safe-sex practices for transgender and queer people, but in our society, it can be a little hard.
“As a society we are very, very conservative,” Ardjo-
mand-Kermani said. “You know, every sex scene is rushed and all kinds of exciting and dramatic, but very rarely do you ever see people negotiate condom use or talk about birth control.”
If we don’t even discuss sex within traditional couples, 
it’s no wonder the dialogue is severely lacking for queer couples. A simple way to start peeling back the lid on  
safe sex, no matter your parts or orientation, is by being open.
“If you look at the Netherlands, where having a bowl 
of condoms on your dining room table is something you’re used to,” they said, “their abortion rates are very, very low. Look at their STD rates, which are very, very low. Unwanted pregnancy rates? Also very low.”
I can’t even imagine being in a room with my parents 
and a condom, and that’s part of the problem. Another lay-er to that is when someone assumes your choice in partner is going to follow traditional rules, which is not my case nor the case for many others.
Add in the fact that not everyone experiences 
sexual attraction, and the end result is a danger-ous lack of information. But when you’re talk-
ing about something like sex, it’s important to 
be prepared.
Darlena Cunha is an instructor in UF’s Col-
lege of Journalism and Communications. When she’s not seriously trying to prepare her stu-dents for the real world, she’s trying to do the same for her identical twin daughters.
Now Cunha is worried about what her two daughters 
would do if their sex education entails just carrying an egg 
around for a day the way hers did.
“I don’t want my kids walking with a girl they met two 
weeks ago down an alley in a part of Boston they’ve never 
been, trying to get birth control pills,” Cunha said.
It’s a story about her first year in college that you’d 
have to ask her about.
The sad part is that for those who can’t have open con-
versations about sex with their parents because of their gender or orientation, this story sounds familiar.
Cunha’s children are still young, so she says it’s too 
early to prescribe orientation to them, especially because she’s not them. She admits it would be a relief if they went along a more traditional path, because then they won’t face discrimination on every level for their relationship choices.
“I hold out hope that in 10 years, when they’re making 
these kinds of life choices, society will catch up with our legislation, and our legislation will be even further along 
so that any orientation or self-definition my daughters 
choose will be recognized and supported, not just by me, but by our society at large,” Cunha said.
Imagine if your parents could say the same. Imagine 
if you could say the same. When we think about sexual health, we need to start thinking about everyone.
Brooke Henderson is a UF international studies and 
journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.Trump and Sanders 
have changed 
politics forever
What great nation has lasted an eternity? Some empires come to mind when we try to answer this question. The Roman Empire lasted roughly 507 years. While Judaism is roughly 2,500 years old, the Jewish nation has come and gone many times over the course of 
that history. This year, our democracy in America rejoiced in its 240th birthday.
Every great nation comes and goes. To assume our nation is 
eternal, dear reader, is simply absurd. Those who don’t know history are doomed to repeat it. Those who do, in fact, know history are doomed to repeat it alongside everybody else any-way. To be cliché for a moment: nothing changes and every-thing changes.
But one thing is tangibly recognizable. While Sen. Bernie 
Sanders has long since lost the opportunity to represent the Democratic left in this election, the rise of people like Sand-ers and Donald Trump in our political landscape have forever changed the way politicians “play” politics.
There used to be a time when traditional party duality ruled 
all. Now both parties are scrambling to try and make sense of where the American political mindset is traveling. Both parties are guilty of trying to cover this up. U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan and the conservatives have absolutely no control over their candidate, 
Trump. They are constantly dropping endorsements, apologiz-
ing on his behalf and attempting to distance themselves from him at any waking moment. Toward the left, mountains of evi-dence have come out over the last year in regard to U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz being caught trying to rig the elec-tion against Sanders.
For better or worse, Trump and Sanders reshaped our po-
litical process forever. They pushed the boundaries of typical American political thought and dared their followers to dream 
bigger. The fact that both politicians had such a significant fol-
lowing, and still do, further proves this. Before, the illusion of choice within parties was clear, and on the whole, candidates in their party held extremely similar views to one another, not straying too far away from the status quo on questions of eco-nomics, abortion, foreign policy, et cetera. But with Sanders and Trump, that paradigm is shaken. While both align themselves within the larger party, their views on issues are non-tradition-al. Sanders advocated for radical views like subsidizing college 
tuition, overturning the Citizens United ruling and raising the 
minimum wage. Trump wants to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, punish women who get abortions and suspend due process. Regardless of how you may feel about any of those aforementioned policies, there’s no disagreement on the fact that they are new and innovative ideas in terms of the American political landscape.
While fresh perspectives are usually appreciated, as they 
were with Sanders, the line between that and unfiltered non-
sense has become blurred. One Trump supporter told a pro-
tester to “Go back to Auschwitz.” Trump has opened the gates for social degeneration to flow through, where rhetoric (rather than policy) sparks discussion. If policy is discussed, people are still insulted and told they’re an existential threat.
With Hillary up in the polls, we can temporarily breathe 
easy. But this simply doesn’t go away after Election Day. These people and the thoughts they hold don’t just disappear. Pando-ra’s box has been opened, and what nonsense will come spew-
ing out of it in the future is yet to be determined.
Brooke  
Henderson
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Journalism is a pretty conservative 
ﬁ  eld. The Associated Press Stylebook has yet to accept that “they” can be a 
singular pronoun and The New York 
Times still uses Mr. and Ms., which 
reinforce the gender binary. Student jour-nalists are taught to be objective, to get both 
sides of every story — present the facts and 
tie them together.
However, this objective utopia that we’re 
taught about, if it ever existed, doesn’t ex-ist any more. MSNBC and Fox News have 
clear points of view. For the most part, only 
the journalists who don’t have to interact with politics on a daily basis do not reveal their views. In fact, it’s this attempt to be 
objective, despite everything, that gave 
rise to Donald Trump and legitimized his campaign. Because of constant accusations of a liberal media bias from the right, out-lets went out of their ways to be objective. 
But Trump wasn’t just any Republican pres-idential candidate and should not 
have been treated as such. As a ﬁ  gure in the public eye for many 
years, it should not have taken 
this long to uncover the infamous tape in which Trump brags about sexual assault. The media knew 
a lot about Hillary Clinton’s per-
sonal life, because she was in the political sphere for much of her life. As a rule, politicians are held to a higher standard than entertainers, and 
when Trump decided to be a politician, the 
media should have dug for what was left out of interviews and edits of “The Appren-tice.”
With newer outlets like "The Young 
Turks” and Vox, the traditional model in which journalists try to conceal their points of view is less and less prevalent. The jour-nalists at these outlets embrace opinion but 
also get to the truth. I’ve grown to prefer these outlets as someone who 
is pro-choice and believes that global warming is real — I just 
don’t want to sit through pro-
grams that entertain anti-science propaganda. Based on those pref-erences, I select where I get my 
news — and so do other people, 
which explains the popularity of Fox News.
Two weeks ago, journalist Amy Good-
man of the “Democracy Now!” radio show 
was charged with rioting after covering the 
protests against an oil pipeline in North Da-kota. According to The New York Times, the prosecutor justiﬁ  ed her arrest by saying, 
“She’s a protester, basically. Everything she 
reported on was from the position of justify-ing the protest actions.”
Essentially the prosecutor is using the 
fact that she agrees with the protestors to 
discredit her as a journalist. This protest has been mostly neglected by mainstream 
media. In many ways, her arrest not only censors a journalist, but also represents a 
stiﬂ  ing of Native American voices, because 
Goodman’s work was trying to amplify them. The major news outlets fail to cover certain stories, and that’s where programs 
with a point of view come in — they narrow 
journalists’ focus and allow them to tackle stories in a new way. A journalist who re-ports through his or her own perspective should not be penalized — in fact, pretend-
ing to be impartial can be more damaging. 
As a ﬁ  eld, journalism must accept a space for opinion. These opinions might drive a reporter to tell stories that often get neglect-
ed or outright swept under the rug at major 
news outlets. Objectivity cannot be prized over telling stories that need to be told.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism junior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.
Why it's OK to have opinions and perspectives in your news coverageColumn
Nicole Dan 
opinions@alligator.org
Who decides what is OK to talk 
about? How do we all just seem to know what a taboo topic is? 
If there is a yearly workshop, I 
wasn’t invited. But somehow, I’m 
still aware of what we are supposed to avoid talking about. At a party, we’re told to steer 
clear of discussions about sex, politics, reli-
gion and the like. I don’t know what parties these people were talking about, because ev-ery party I attend somehow turns into a spir-ited political debate. Regardless, I maintain 
that this is a commonly used list of topics to 
avoid. Another common addition to this list is health. We’re told that no one wants to hear about our recent ailments or your visit to the 
doctor, and this may be true. People often get 
weird when others share personal informa-tion. Further, there is one topic that makes many people extremely uncomfortable. If you want to quiet a room full of people, bring up 
your mental-health struggles. 
Why is this a thing? Why do we pretend everything is ﬁ  ne and dandy when 
everything is absolutely neither ﬁ  ne nor dandy? Because we’ve 
been told since day one that no 
one really wants to hear about our problems. We apologize for com-plaining or for talking about feel-
ings. When someone asks how we 
are, we say we’re ﬁ  ne, because we know the person asking probably doesn’t really want to know. Unless your re-sult is blue, according to the True Colors per-
sonality test, you’d probably rather talk about 
literally anything other than feelings. 
Here’s the deal: When we stop talking 
about feelings, we stop being human. Dear 
readers, I apologize sincerely if you hate feel-
ings. You’re not alone if you do. Many people are able to effectively handle life without their brain getting in the way, but many people are not. 
By burying thoughts and feelings, we are 
diminishing the reality that is mental illness, thus diminishing the prospect of help and understanding for those affected by it. When we 
stop talking about mental health, 
those who need to know they’re not alone don’t get that reassur-ance. Thus, the problem becomes 
worse.
To those who don’t like talk-
ing about their feelings: I am 
sorry. I truly am. I’m not saying this aspect 
of communication needs to change because I 
like watching you be uncomfortable. Your fel-
low humans need you, and as a person whose brain is on their side, you are their best asset. You can improve and even save lives just by 
letting something enter the list of open topics.
To those who need their feelings talked 
about: I’m sorry. I’m sorry it has to be a com-
ponent of your life. You don’t deserve it, and I wish I could press a button or wave a magic 
wand and make it all go away. I wish we did 
not have to worry about this and tomorrow you would wake up and discover your brain will never work against you again. I can’t, but I can try to help you and get others to help 
you.
The best resource we have for our time on 
this planet is each other. We can go in alone. 
It may be more efﬁ  cient and a little less un-
comfortable, but I am a ﬁ  rm believer in the 
idea that nothing good is ever achieved while you’re comfortable. If we band together, we can go far. We can make our lives meaning-ful, help one another and achieve all we wish 
to achieve in our all-too-short lifetimes. So, 
talk about it. Don’t pretend everything is ﬁ  ne if it’s not. You don’t have to be ﬁ  ne. If you are, use that to help others. Don’t shut down. 
Your fellow humans need you. If you’re not 
ﬁ  ne, that’s OK. Use your story to inspire oth-ers. We’re never alone. Don’t let anyone for-get that, and don’t you forget it either. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Let’s talk about taboo topics: being open about feelings and mental healthColumn
T aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
covered in pink and light blue, of-
fering support for members of the community.
“We’ve wanted to see that 
here, and I’m so glad to see that happening,” she said.
Though she was excited about 
the number of people who attend-ed the event, she said she wished more of those who came would volunteer at the center throughout the year.
The center provides year-round 
services to the LGBTQ+ commu-nity, including support groups, free HIV testing and an emergency hotline, she said.“There is a lot of work to do,” 
she said.
To kick off the festivities, May-
or Lauren Poe introduced Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who was in town Friday to train Hillary Clinton campaign volunteers.
Wasserman Schultz urged 
members of the crowd to keep the LGBTQ+ community in mind when voting in the general elec-tions.
“Love is the law of the land,” 
she said.
While she spoke, however, 
about five people shouted over her, chanting “Bernie” in unison. Some booed after the former chair-woman of the Democratic Nation-al Committee left the stage.Despite the interruption, Was-
serman Schultz said she was glad she could make time to at-tend the Pride celebration while campaigning for Clinton, which included an appearance Friday at the Gainesville Police station. That appearance was also interrupted by a Bernie Sanders supporter, as other supporters protested out-side, upset at the DNC’s apparent undermining of Sanders’ primary run against Clinton.
Wasserman Schultz did not ad-
dress the hecklers, opting instead to remind the crowd of the pur-pose of the festival.
“LGBT equality is really impor-
tant to me,” she said.
PRIDE,  from pg. 1There were performances and face-paintingEmma Green / Alligator Staff
Pride Festival attendees watch musical performances on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Saturday afternoon.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Seen through a hanging peace sign in the Soul Essentials pop-up shop at the downtown Pride Festival, Marissa DeVito, a 21-year-old bartender at Sonny’s BBQ, points and laughs at a crystallized phallic symbol.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Morgan Millett, a 22-year-old Spirit Halloween worker, kisses Nikki Mason, a 19-year-old Florida School of Massage alumna, while doing acroyoga on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Saturday.Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Morgan Millett, a 22-year-old Spirit Halloween worker, spins poi on Bo Diddley Community Plaza during the Pride Festival on Saturday. Millett said she has been practicing poi for two or three years, but she felt she was more skilled at hooping. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Jennifer Burke, a 40-year-old treasure hunter and jewelry maker from Ocala, poses in her Soul Essentials shop during the Pride Festival downtown on Saturday.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
man Friday for trying to steal more 
than $1,000 worth of merchandise from the Macy’s department store at The Oaks Mall.
At about 1 p.m., Trai Curtis 
Williams, 18, grabbed 13 items, in-cluding several pieces of clothing, 
from the store, located at 6671 W. 
Newberry Road, according to a po-lice report.
Williams hid the merchandise, 
worth about $1,110, in a Macy’s bag and walked past all of the cash registers without paying, according to the report. When a loss-preven-tion employee approached him, 
Williams resisted him and started 
trying to pull away.
The loss-prevention ofﬁ  cer then 
handcuffed him and recovered the items Williams attempted to take, according to the report.After GPD arrived, the ofﬁ  cer 
found two small bags ﬁ  lled with eight grams of marijuana in Wil-liams’ pants pocket, according to the report. They found a small digi-tal scale in the same pocket.
Police ar-
rested Williams, who admitted to trying to take the 
Macy’s products without paying, on charges of re-sisting merchant detainment,  grand theft be-
tween $300 and $4,999, possess-ing less than 20 grams of weed and possession of drug paraphernalia.
Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where he re-mains, as of press time, in lieu of a $39,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org Man with weed tries 
shoplifting from Macy’s
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
IN-TITLED
Five-year-old Rayna Obal peers above a shelf as she looks for a cook book during the Friends of 
the Library Fall Sale on Saturday.
By Melanie Mueller
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Bowie, a 9-month-old Dachshund, ran about 
15 yards, winning a derby against 25 other hounds Sunday.
During the second-annual Halloweener Der-
by, Dachshunds ran toward an orange spray-painted ﬁ  nish line at Westside Park as about 200 onlookers watched. The race, which ben-eﬁ  ted the Climb for Cancer Foundation, raised about $5,000 for the pediatric oncology unit at 
UF Health Shands Hospital. 
Last year, they raised $3,000 for the foun-
dation, which was started in 2002 by Ron and 
Dianne Farb to help ease the pain of cancer pa-tients. 
“Everybody is having a good time, and that is the most important thing,” Ron Farb said.
To raise money, owners paid about $30 to 
register their pets in either the derby or costume contest. They paid about $50 for both events.
At about 2:15 p.m., Adam Ray, a UF biology 
junior, cheered as his dog, Bowie, won the race. 
“We are so proud of him,” the 20-year-old 
said. “He’s the best dog in the world.” 
Visitors also walked through the Trick or 
Treat Trail, which was lined with various ven-dors including Eat the 80 and Sweet Paws Bak-ery. Vendor fees also went to Shands.
Fernando Spada, a 20-year-old UF ﬁ  nance 
junior, saw the event from the park’s play-ground and said he decided to check it out.
“I was not the biggest fan of wiener dogs,” 
he said. “But after watching a variety of them racing, I gained a newfound love for them.”  Dachshund derby raises 
$5,000 for cancer patients
Melanie Mueller / Alligator
Adam Ray, a UF biology junior, poses with his 9-month-old Dachshund, Bowie, 
following the dog’s ﬁ  rst-place win in Sunday’s Halloweener Derby. The second annual Dachshund-only race, held at Westside Park, raised about $5,000 for the pediatric oncology unit at UF Health Shands Hospital.
Williams
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease available. Nov. 1
1 Bed/1 Bath 559 month 500 dep.
Addison Lane Apts.
321-443-0412
Back Check/Proof of Income/Application
10-26-16-4-3
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
*****THE PUMPKIN PATCH*****
At Littlewood Elementary School
812 NW 34th St by Westside Park
M-F 3-7pm*****Sat-Sun 12-7pm
CASH ONLY****Close to Campus
10-25-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 10 For Sale 12 AutosMONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2002 Toyota Rav4, clean title, all papers available, smoke free, no rust, no accidents, 2.0L I4 Engine, AWD, White with Tan , 112K miles. $2900 You can get in touch with me by phone at 3177218798      10-28-5-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatest
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
CLINICAL RESEARCH INTERNSNeeded pre-med & medical students.
 
Contact Dr Shah Rahimian 814-691-7377    10-24-5-14
ACROSS
1 “Handle __ care”
5 Burns with hot
liquid
11 Ex-Florida
governor Bush
14 “__ Ben Adhem”
15 Reacts facially to
a bad joke, say
16 Chopping tool
17 What snowbirds
seek in winter
19 “Mamma __!”20 Mecca’s
peninsula
21 Heat in a
microwave
22 Indy service
areas
23 “Do __ others ... ”25 Most doubtful
27 Ready-to-send
correspondence
31 Network with
regular pledge
drives
32 D-Day French
city
33 Steak orders37 Calm under
pressure
39 Since Jan. 1, in
accounting
41 Folksy account
42 “Bewitched” witch
45 Buster Brown’s
dog
48 Jamaican music
genre
49 Liqueur holder52 Last word of a
verbally citedpassage
55 “Doctor Zhivago”
heroine
56 Potpie veggies57 Hydroelectric
facility
59 Quik maker63 Dad, to grandpa64 Ideal party
throwerdescribed by the
first words of 17-,
27- and 49-Across
66 Cutoff point67 C to C, in music68 Richard of “A
Summer Place”
69 Org. with a
PreCheckProgram
70 Sets free71 Facts and
figuresDOWN
1 Electric guitar
effect
2 Letter-shaped
beam
3 __ Bora: Afghan
region
4 Scrooge’s
“Nonsense!”
5 Worry about
something,
slangily
6 Cloak-and-
dagger org.
7 Animated bug film8 Bar mitzvah toast9 What fries are
fried in
10 Ukr. or Lith., once
11 Actor Foxx
12 Freeway off-
ramps
13 Savage sort
18 Tipplers22 Cockpit figure24 “I’m __ human”26 Little lie27 First fairy tale
word
28 Second fairy tale
word
29 Trampled (on)
30 ’80s-’90s crime
boss John
34 Mission Control
org.35 Benevolent
fraternal group
36 Salty expanses
38 Center of power40 Bygone phone
feature
43 Pal of Piglet44 Radio City Music
Hall design style
46 Cursory looks47 Long-legged
wader
50 “... near and __
my heart”51 Assailed verbally,
with “out”
52 Surprise win53 Bright signs54 Press conference
format, briefly
58 Degs. for
choreographers
60 Old Roman robe61 Future D.A.’s exam62 Sicilian volcano64 D.C. big shot65 Morn’s
counterpart
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/24/1610/24/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 24, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
OFFICE ASSISTANT
Immediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-25-16-10-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
WANTED: TYPIST / ASSISTANT.
Must be local and reliable. 5-10 hrs/week. 
Flexible. Call after 6m, leave info 352-378-
9771    10-25-16-4-14
Part time. Must love to work with kids. Free 
training for teaching beginner Fencing Classes. No experience required. Must have own car. Pay $15 per hour with max monthly income of $480. Send resume to kkvols@floridafencingacademy.com     10-28-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible Lawyer
Douglas A. Willis
Reasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-
21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
1. When was the last time the Pitts-
burgh Pirates played in the World 
Series?
2. How many players have hit 200 
or more home runs for the Chicago 
White Sox?
3. New England’s Tom Brady set a 
record in 2015 for most NFL victories 
by a quarterback with one franchise. Who had held the mark?
4. When was the last time the pre-
season No. 1 team in The Associated Press top-25 poll for men’s college 
basketball ended up winning the 
national championship that season?
5. Which two teams were added in 
the last round of NHL expansion?
6. In 2016, Justin Gatlin became the 
oldest sprinter (34) to make the U.S. 
Olympic team since who?
7. In 2015, golfer Bernhard Langer 
won the Jack Nicklaus Trophy as the 
PGA Tour Champions player of the year for a record fifth time. Who else has won it three times?
Answers
1. It was 1979, when the Pirates beat 
the Baltimore Orioles.
2. Four — Frank Thomas (448 home 
runs), Paul Konerko (432), Harold 
Baines (221) and Carlton Fisk. (214).
3. Green Bay’s Brett Favre, with 160 
wins (1992-2007).
4. North Carolina, in the 2008-2009 
season.
5. Minnesota and Columbus were 
added for the 2000-01 season.
6. Peter Gerhardt was nearly 35 
years old in 1912.
7. Lee Trevino and Hale Irwin (three 
times each).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 24, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 24 Pets 19 Connections 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Josie Kuhlman led the UF 
women's tennis team into the ITA Regional Championships and will play for the singles and doubles titles today. For a full recap of the action, see pg. 16 Florida moves up in AP poll
Despite its bye week, the Florida football team moved up to No. 14 in this 
week's Associated Press college football poll. Entering the weekend, UF was ranked No. 15. Alligator Staff
Jalen Tabor. Alex Anzalone. Marcus 
Maye. Jordan Scarlett. Halfway through the 
season, each has proven they can contribute 
to the No. 14-ranked Florida football team. 
But, coming off a bye week, which player 
will break out from his role and exceed ex-
pectations in the second half of the season? Football writers Ethan Bauer, Ian Cohen, 
Jordan McPherson and Patrick Pinak debate.
Bauer: Antonneous Clayton 
Antonneous Clayton arrived at UF with 
the most hype of anyone in UF’s 2016 re-
cruiting class and quickly took a seat on the bench. The four-star true freshman wasn’t 
strong enough to weather the pounding of Southeastern Conference football, and de-spite his obvious potential, teammates and coaches knew it. 
Halfway through the season, Clayton has 
been a third-down threat at best. 
He played for the first time against 
Vanderbilt and has only amassed two tack-les in two games, playing sparingly in pass-rushing situations. 
But moving forward, his workload fig-
ures to increase. 
“He’s really obviously a great player,” 
coach Jim McElwain said. “He’s up to 250 
pounds, very talented.”
With his weight up to where it ought to 
be, the Clayton who will take the field in the second half of 2016 draws parallels to 
another Florida player: fellow defensive end 
Jabari Zuniga. 
Before this season, Zuniga was an un-
known. He was underdeveloped and didn’t play at all as a freshman. But with his 
weight up and his body developed, he broke 
out to the tune of a team-leading five sacks 
in six games. 
Clayton has as much — if not more — po-
tential than Zuniga, and now that his body 
appears to have caught up to his talent, he 
should be ready for a role as Florida’s next 
breakout defensive star.
Cohen: Kylan Johnson
All right, I’ll admit it. This is a guess.
But it’s an educated guess.Senior linebacker Jarrad Davis suffered 
an ankle sprain against Missouri last week, 
and there is no timetable for his return. 
He could be back within a couple weeks. 
He could be out a couple months. I’m bank-
ing on the fact that Davis will return later rather than sooner, and that means that one 
of Florida’s younger linebackers will have 
to step up and contribute the rest of the sea-
son.Who will be Florida's breakout player?ROUNDTABLE
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Antonneous Clayton (90), once a four-star recruit, arrived at UF with plenty of hype. But the freshman has spent most of his first season on the bench.
Eight seniors took the field on 
Sunday at Dizney Stadium for their final regular-season home game.
After four years, three-straight 
NCAA Tournament appearances, two Southeastern Conference regu-lar season titles and one SEC Tour-nament title, UF’s senior class cele-brated one more win on Senior Day.
The No. 20 
Gators (12-4, 7-3 SEC) defeated Mis-
sissippi State (6-
11, 1-9 SEC) 1-0, 
and its senior class 
earned its 66th 
win, the fifth most 
among the coun-
try’s senior classes.
Due to another stifling defensive 
effort, Florida held Mississippi State to three shots in the first 45 minutes.
“Everyone wants to play a little 
extra hard for the seniors because 
they know the loyalty that we have 
for this group,” UF coach Becky Bur-
leigh said. 
“This has been a remarkable se-
nior class for us and they still have 
so much more to give. But we want-
ed to kind of honor them today.”
One of them, senior forward Sa-UF soccer team sends senior class off with win
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
When Florida volleyball play -
er Caroline Knop went to serve during the third set of Sunday’s matchup against Georgia, she was trying to put the match away for the Gators.After gaining her focus, the ju
-
nior libero flicked the ball into the air and delivered a strike over the net.
Straight out of bounds.Frustrated, Knop raised her 
hands and yelled, infuriated by her mistake. 
Florida only had a 17-point lead to protect. 
Luckily, they recovered. Playing in front of a packed 
home crowd, the No. 10 Gators (18-2, 8-1 Southeastern Confer
-
ence) swept the Bulldogs (13-9, 1-8 SEC) for their sixth-straight win.
The match hadn’t always been 
easy, though.
Due to several mistimed jumps 
by middle blockers Rachael Kram
-er and Rhamat Alhassan in the front row and several miscues in the back row by defensive special
-
ist Allie Gregory, the first two sets were close contests. 
Alhassan was quiet during the 
first two frames. The 6-foot-4 ju
-
nior tallied only five kills — the team captain’s only kills of the match.
However, despite the early 
struggles, the Gators won both sets 25-19. 
Wise said her team had a dif
-
ficult time handling the Bulldogs’ aggressive serving, and that af
-
fected what her team could do of -
fensively.
“They went back there and 
served BBs,” she added.
However, in the third set, it 
was all Florida.
Behind the hard hitting of Carli Snyder, Holston dominate in volleyball's sweep of Georgia
It was UF 's sixth-straight winBurleigh
FLORIDA 1MISSISSIPPI STATE 0
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 14
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 14SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.vannah Jordan, is one of the most accom-
plished Florida soccer players ever. 
She's scored 78 career goals, the sec-
ond most at Florida behind only Abby 
Wambach (96). 
But she couldn't ﬁ  nd the net on Sun-
day, and the Gators weren’t able to get on 
the board until the 81st minute, when they scored the eventual game-winning goal. 
Senior Meggie Dougherty Howard’s 
corner kick sailed in front of the Bulldogs' 
box, where sophomore Mayra Pelayo 
ﬁ  elded it and scored from 8 yards out.
“I just saw it coming,” Pelayo said. “I knew it was going to go in the far 
post. I just whipped it in, and hopefully it 
went in, and it did.”
This was Florida’s sixth shutout of 
the season, and the ﬁ  fth in its last seven 
games. 
“The past couple games have been try-
ing to keep a shutout, so I was just try-ing to do my part,” UF goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese said. 
“We have been focusing a lot on play-
ing a full 90-minute game."Florida will have a few days to recover 
before it travels to Columbia, Missouri, on Thursday for its last regular-season game of the season. 
Then the team will travel to Orange 
Beach, Alabama, to try and defend their 2015 SEC Tournament Title.
The tournament will be played from 
Nov. 1-6.
“I think we have grown a lot since the 
beginning of the year, I think we have grown from each win, loss, whatever struggles we’ve had,” Jordan said. 
“I am really proud of where we are and 
I think it is only good things going into 
next season and onto Orange Beach. So I 
am pretty excited to see what we do in the 
postseason.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org
 SOCCER,  from pg. 13It was Florida's sixth shutout 
Snyder and Alex Holston and excellent 
passing from setter Allie Monserez, the Gators blitzed the Bulldogs, gunning to a 13-1 lead in what would be the ﬁ  nal set. Florida held Georgia to a lowly eight points in the ﬁ  nal frame.
“We all just wanted 
to pick it up a notch,” Holston said of the third set. “We knew that we 
had another level in us. 
… We had another gear, 
so we should just take it 
there.”
Holston and Snyder 
led the team with 15 kills 
each. Holston also tallied eight digs and a 
solo block.
“You could put Alex’s performance on 
any team in the country, and they’d be an NCAA-worthy team,” Wise said. “She was that special.”For the match, the Gators were bal-
anced.
On the offensive end, they slammed 
down 45 kills to the tune of a .438 hitting percentage and totaled 43 assists. 
And behind the length of the frontcourt 
and the quick reﬂ  exes of Knop — who had a game-high 13 digs — in the backcourt, the Gators dominated defensively, register-ing 47 digs, stufﬁ  ng 7.5 shots and holding Georgia’s attack to a .173 hitting percent-age. 
Meanwhile, the Bulldogs couldn’t get 
out of their own way, recording 14 attack errors, seven service errors and three block errors.
The win gave the Gators their 12th 
sweep of the season and ﬁ  fth in SEC play. 
“All around as a team, we’ve just been 
focusing on smaller things to make each 
other better,” Holston said. “That really 
showed today.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org VOLLEY,  from pg. 13Holston and Snyder led the 
Gators with 15 kills each
Holston
“I am really proud of where we are 
and I think it is only good things 
going into next season.”
Savannah Jordan
UF forwardMONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
That's where Kylan Johnson 
comes in.
You may not know his name, 
but the redshirt freshman has 
played in all six games this sea-
son, has nine total tackles and 
combined on a sack on Sept. 10 
against Kentucky.
In UF’s spring scrimmage, 
Johnson led the Blue team with 
eight total tackles and even had 
an interception. He outshined 
freshman linebacker David Reese and redshirt freshman Rayshad Jackson, who combined for nine 
total tackles.
Until (and if) Davis returns 
from his injury, there could be 
a number of players who fill his role on Florida’s defense. 
Reese, Jackson, freshman 
Vosean Joseph and senior Daniel McMillian are all options.
But don’t bet against Johnson, 
the three-star recruit with a chip 
on his shoulder who is eager to 
prove he can contribute to a dom-
inant UF defense after redshirting in 2015.
McPherson: Tyrie Cleveland
A suspension and a hamstring 
injury held wide receiver Tyrie 
Cleveland back for the first three games of his freshman season. 
A four-star prospect from Hous-
ton and the top offensive prospect from the Gators’ 2016 recruiting class, he fell behind on the depth chart, had trouble getting to the field and at times looked lost on the rare opportunities he had to run a route. 
But in Florida’s last three 
games, Cleveland has begun to burst onto the scene. His first career catch was a 36-yard com-pletion down the right sideline against Tennessee. 
Last week against Missouri, he 
led UF’s receiving corps with 79 yards and his first touchdown. 
The 6-foot-2 freshman is av-
eraging more than 20 yards per catch and is slowly proving to be a reliable second threat for Flori-da opposite Antonio Callaway. He has the size to compete with al-most any defensive back he goes up against.
And with three of Florida’s 
final five regular-season games coming against defenses that are giving up at least 7.4 yards per pass attempt, Cleveland will have his share of opportunities to make plays. 
Even if he doesn’t make plays, 
his presence opens up the field for 
Callaway and other options in the 
passing game. 
That’s a win-win.
Pinak: Antonio CallawayYou’ve already heard of Anto-
nio Callaway, which doesn’t make 
him a typical breakout candidate. 
But in the second half of the 
season, it's likely that Callaway 
will break out of his special teams 
funk, namely his punt return game.
Antonio Callaway the receiver 
has been dynamite this season, as expected. 
But when he’s jogged back to 
field punts, Callaway has looked confused and lost. 
He’s inexplicably caught punts 
backpedaling inside the 10-yard line and has run backwards for losses at times. 
The outcome has been under-whelming at best. 
The Florida receiver is averag-
ing 2.86 yards per punt return this season, which ranks 65th of 69 qualified FBS returners. 
That kind of production just 
can’t continue for a player who ranked among the top-five return-ers in the nation last year.
It also can’t continue for a guy 
with as much explosiveness and 
speed as Callaway. 
I don’t expect it to, and neither 
do UF’s coaches. “You know, he’ll come along,” 
special teams coordinator Greg 
Nord said. 
“He’s a great player, he’s prov-
en it, we know he can do it, ev-
erybody in this room knows that. We’ve just gotta get it done and get him back with the confidence of, ‘Hey, I’m gonna go take this thing back to the house.’”
If confidence is what’s been 
holding Callaway back, maybe 
he’ll use the Missouri game as a 
springboard. Callaway returned a late-game 
onside kick attempt for a 44-yard 
touchdown in Florida’s 40-14 win. 
And while he was nearly un-
touched and the score came on a 
kickoff, it could be just what the sophomore needed to return to his first-year special teams form. 
Who do you think will be Flori-
da’s breakout player in the second 
half of the season? Vote online at 
alligator.org/sports.ROUNDTABLE,  from pg. 13Cleveland led all UF receivers with 79 yards against Missouri
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Jarrad Davis is attended to by trainers after being injured during Florida's win over Missouri on Oct. 
15. With Davis' injury, redshirt freshman Kylan Johnson has an opportunity to earn more playing time.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Last year, Antonio Callaway was one of the nation's most dangerous punt returners. This year, his production has declined.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Freshman Tyrie Cleveland is averaging more than 20 yards per catch and is proving to be a reliable second option for the Gators at receiver.16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2016
Florida hosted the southeast bracket of the ITA Regional Champion-
ships this weekend, and for the most part, the Gators defended their home court. Of Florida’s six singles competitors, only two didn’t ad-vance past the second round of play.  Competition resumes Monday, when Josie Kuhlman will compete for the singles title and the Gators’ doubles duo of Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock will compete in the doubles championships. 
SINGLES QUARTERFINALS
• Spencer Liang (Florida) def. Anna Danilina (Florida) 7-6(7) Ret.
• Josie Kuhlman (Florida) def. Belinda Woolcock (Florida) 6-4, 6-4
SINGLES SEMIFINALS  
• Eleni Christofi (Georgia) def. Spencer Liang (Florida) 6-4, 6-3
• Josie Kuhlman (Florida) def. Maci Epstein (Miami, FL) 6-4, 6-2
DOUBLES SEMIFINALS
•  Josie Kuhlman/Belinda Woolcock (Florida) def. Anna Danilina/Spencer Liang (Florida) 3-6, 6-4, 10-6
• Kennedy Shaffer/Eleni Christofi (Georgia) def. Kourtney Keegan/Peggy Porter (Florida) 6-2, 4-6, 10-5
CHAMPIONSHIP (TODAY
• Singles: Josie Kuhlman (Florida) vs. Eleni Christofi (Georgia)
• Doubles: Josie Kuhlman/Belinda Woolcock (Florida) vs. Kennedy Shaffer/Eleni Christofi (Georgia)
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Kourtney Keegan serves on Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex. Keegan and her doubles partner, Peggy Porter, lost in the semifinals.
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Spencer Liang returns a ball during the ITA Regional Championships on Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex. Liang lost in the doubles and singles semifinals.
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff 
Anna Danilina hits a ball during the ITA Regional Championships on Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex.  WOMEN'S TENNIS