We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 37 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
Punter excelling for UF football 
team
Johnny T ownsend leads the SEC in yards per 
punt, pg. 14
UF student paints custom backpacks
She’s hoping the hobby becomes a business, pg. 5
Museum celebrates National Fossil Day
About 500 fossils will be on display, pg. 5Students celebrate at PSU’s Drag
Ball
See our photo story, pgs. 8-9
CAMPUS
FOR NATIONAL COMING 
OUT DAY, PSU HOSTED A 
DISCUSSION PANEL.
By Paige Fry 
Alligator Staff Writer
Ellie Gaustria ﬁ  rst came out to 
her mother when she was 11. 
At the time, she didn’t even 
know the word “transgender,” 
she said. She just knew she wasn’t like other boys.
“I felt like a girl trapped in a 
boy’s body,” the 22-year-old UF nursing junior said. 
On Tuesday, Gaustria was part 
of a panel discussion hosted by UF’s Pride Student Union at the 
Insitute of Black Culture, where 
she and two others from the stu-dent organization opened up to an audience of seven. 
They talked about their jour-
neys of identifying their sexuality or gender. 
The event honored National 
Coming Out Day, which cele-
brates individuals who identify as 
part  of the LGBTQ+ community. The panel discussed how com-
ing out is a process, one that var-ies for every person. But after someone comes out, it’s a con-
stant routine with everyone they 
meet.  
Gaustria said identifying as a 
trans woman of color means put-ting herself in danger due to the 
high crime rate against women of 
color who identify with the trans-gender community. 
But she said she felt it was im-
portant to represent people who identiﬁ  ed like her.“You can’t educate people on 
an identity unless there’s a face to it,” she said, “and so having proud people of our community 
speak and articulate their identi-
ties is quite crucial for our cul-ture’s existence.”
Carolyna Guillen, the presi-
dent of PSU, said some members 
of the LGBTQ+ community don’t 
like celebrating coming-out day because they think it shouldn’t be considered an accomplishment.
People identifying as non-het-
erosexual should be considered normal, she said.
“No one ever has to come out 
as straight,” the 21-year-old UF microbiology junior said. 
The panel also discussed how 
individuals shouldn’t feel pres-sured to come out. 
Because of the lack of protec-
tion by federal laws, they risk be-
ing ﬁ  red from work, among other 
repercussions. 
Nate Quinn, 18, said his story 
of coming out happened three 
times: once as a lesbian, once as  LGBTQ+ students share coming-out stories with community
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Past a table of candles, about 
200 attendees gathered Tuesday 
evening in preparation for a day of fasting and atonement.
In observance of the Jewish 
high holiday of Yom Kippur, they nearly ﬁ  lled the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center to pray and speak about the importance of renewing their faith.
From sunset Tuesday to sunset 
Wednesday, they and other observ-ers of the holiday will abstain from food, drink and other luxuries.
For Rabbi Berl Goldman, the 
fasting is both happy and solemn, serving as a way to become as spiritually close to God as one can get by praying and confessing sins from the past year.
“It’s an opportune time for 
blessings and forgiveness,” he said. “We encourage everyone to take this time to pray for them-selves, their family and the whole world.”
About 30 minutes into the 
prayer service, a tray of candles melted and caught the ﬂ  owers above it on ﬁ  re.
But even the ﬁ  re couldn’t deter 
the observers. Within a few min-utes — once the ﬁ  re was put out — the crowd came back, and the prayers continued.
Today, until sunset, the center 
will host ﬁ  ve distinct prayer ser-vices exclusive to the holiday. The themes of the prayers will include forgiveness, atonement and one-
ness with God, Goldman said.
Today, to celebrate the end 
of the fast, the center will host a 
dinner featuring the blowing of a 
shofar, an instrument made from a 
hollowed-out ram’s horn that pro-
duces a low, buzzing noise.
Sitting in the back of the room, 
20-year-old Matthew Zagoory said he hasn’t participated in Yom Kip-
pur in 10 years. After working at 
a Hebrew camp this summer, the 
Santa Fe College history sopho-
more said he felt the need to re-connect with the religion he was raised with.
To him, the holiday is about 
more than feeling closer to God. It’s also about asking others for 
forgiveness, which he said was the 
hardest part — apart from going 
hungry.
“Things will never be the way 
that they were before,” he said. “But it’s important to show face 
and say what you did and hope 
they accept the apology.”
Before Tuesday’s gathering, the 
members of the congregation held a candlelit vigil to pray for those 
killed in Haiti and the Bahamas by 
Hurricane Matthew, which left a 
death toll of about 1,700, accord-ing to Reuters.
As about 20 candles burned, 
Goldman said this year’s obser-
vance comes at a challenging time for the world.
“We have uncertainty around 
the world. We have terrorism and other dangers, so everyone is al-
ways concerned,” he said. “So Yom Kippur is a good time for blessings and forgiveness.”
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org 
 Students, locals observe Yom Kippur holiday with day of fasting
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left: Five-year-old Shternie Goldman holds the hand of her father, Rabbi Berl Goldman, the director of the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center. The center, located at 2021 NW Fifth Ave., held a Yom Kippur service on Tuesday evening.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Attendees take the T orah after a candlelight vigil held at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center on Tuesday evening. Hundreds attended the center’s event to commemorate the high holiday of Yom Kippur.
SEE COMING OUT,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  65°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
What are your #relationship-
goals?
As part of its “So Many Ways” 
October advocacy campaign, Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell 
will host the #RelationshipGoals 
Healthy Relationship Fair on 
Thursday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the Plaza of the Americas. UF 
students can visit activity booths 
set up by UF student organiza-tions and departments. For more information and opportunities to get involved, please visit ga-torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/programs/
strive and check out the “So 
Many Ways” advocacy calendar.
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plications
Gainesville’s largest indie craft 
show is accepting applications 
for its Dec. 4 event. Artists and 
crafters who make unique, gift-able goods are encouraged to 
apply. The application deadline 
is Oct. 23. Apply online at glam-
craftshow.com/apply.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 37
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
ISLAM APPRECIATION
Photos by Alan Alvarez, Alligator Staff
UF Islam On Campus kicked off the ﬁ  rst day of Islam Appreciation 
Month with Islamapalooza, an event ﬁ  lled with trivia, free henna, food 
and other activities. The event took place on the Plaza of the Ameri cas 
from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday. 
Left:  Hamza Ashraf, a 20-year-old UF mathematics junior, hands 
food to event participants who each collected three tickets to 
redeem free meals. Hamza, a member of Islam On Campus, said this event aimed to raise awareness about the true meaning of Islam. 
Bottom Left:  Hanna Latef, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, 
gives Sydney Gallagher, an 18-year-old UF wildlife ecology and 
conservation freshman, a free henna tattoo at Islamapalooza on Tuesday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas. Gallagher said she was on her way to Library West when she saw the tent and thought, “Who wouldn’t want to get a henna instead of writing an essay?”
Bottom Right: Half a dozen students wait in line to get free henna 
tattoos at Islamapalooza on Tuesday afternoon on the Plaza of Americas.
a trans man and once as pansexual. 
The UF psychology freshman said listening 
to the panel’s stories allowed him to better un-
derstand the experiences of LGBTQ+ people of 
color. 
Quinn said he was able to compare his own 
transition to Gaustria’s story, although Gaustria 
lost her male privilege when she transitioned, 
while Quinn gained his. 
When Quinn came out in his hometown of 
Sarasota, Florida, he said he didn’t always feel safe. Revealing his true identity, he said, put 
him in danger. But being true to himself came 
first.
“Always support people in your life when 
they come out,” he said. “No matter what it is. 
No matter what you understand or don’t.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
COMING OUT,  from pg. 1‘You put yourself in the line of fire’THE ATTACK HAPPENED 
IN THE DUCKPOND 
NEIGHBORHOOD.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a report of a sexual 
assault in the Duckpond neigh-
borhood Saturday morning, Gainesville Police has increased patrols in search of the suspect.
Sometime before 2 a.m. Satur-
day, a woman was walking from downtown Gainesville to her home near East University Av-enue and Northeast First Street when a man approached her and asked to borrow her lighter, ac-cording to a press release GPD is-sued Tuesday.
She let the man use her lighter 
and continued walking north-bound. As she walked north of Northeast First Street, she noticed the man following her, according to the release. When he began asking for her name, she ignored him and continued walking.
Near the 600 block of NE Sec-
ond St., the man approached her from behind and pointed what she believed to be a firearm to her head, according to the re-lease. She later confirmed he had a firearm.
The man then forced her next 
to a nearby business on Northeast Second Street, where he sexually 
assaulted her and left, according 
to the release. The suspect’s de-scription was not released.
GPD detectives don’t have any 
leads to publicly share, but they have noticed an increase this year in sexual assault-related crimes like molestation and assault, GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email. 
Last year, there were nearly 
80 cases of this type of crime. This year, there have been a little more than 100. In 2014, the num-bers were in the 90s. It fluctuates 
each year, Tobias said.
In a Facebook post Monday, 
Norma Berger, a 38-year-old 
Gainesville resident, posted a note written by her “dear friend who will remain anonymous,” referring to the woman assaulted.
In the statement, the woman 
recounts the more than six hours 
she said she spent talking to doc-
tors and police following her as-sault.
“In every moment leading 
up to, during, and after feeling the gun pressed into the back of my neck, I thought about what I wanted to do, what I always thought I would do, and ultimate-
ly how I didn’t want this to be the 
way I die,” the statement reads. “Take an uber, take a cab. Bring some buddies, catch a ride. Just please take care of yourselves and each other.”
Shortly after 2 a.m. Saturday, 
after receiving a call from the woman, GPD set up a perimeter 
with police dogs tracking the sus-
pect back to North Main Street. The man was never located.
Anyone with information 
should call GPD detectives at 352-393-7670 or text “GPDFL” and the tip to 274637.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgGPD increases patrols 
after sexual assault
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida man demanded a lo-
cal MetroPCS store fix his phone 
Monday — using a shotgun as a bargaining chip, Gainesville Po-lice said.
At about 8:15 a.m. Mon-
day, Wayne Mitchell Cannon, a 59-year-old resident of Bronson, Florida, approached the phone store at 3300 SW Archer Road, 
which was not open at the time, 
demanding someone repair his broken phone, according to a po-lice report.
He was enraged, shouting at 
the store’s assistant manager, who told him to wait until the business opened, according to the report. 
Cannon then went back to his 
car, grabbed the shotgun and re-turned to the store, pointing the weapon at its glass front door, ac-cording to the report. When a cus-tomer standing a few feet away noticed him wielding the weapon, 
Cannon told him, “You better 
move, they gonna fix my phone.”Cannon  
never fired.
GPD of-
ficers found him sitting in his car in 
the store’s parking lot. Inside, they found the 
shotgun was empty, but a loaded revolver sat in the passenger seat, 
according to the report.
Cannon told police he was 
taking medication for anger man-
agement and that he just wanted MetroPCS to fix his phone. Ac-cording to the report, while Can-non sat in a police car, he threat-ened the officers.
“When I get out, I’m going to 
kill every one of you,” he said.
Police arrested Cannon on 
charges of aggravated assault and carrying a concealed firearm without a license. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $200,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgShotgun-wielding man 
demands fixed phoneBy Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Prior to Tuesday’s Student Sen-
ate meeting, five Impact Party sena-
tors applied unopposed for five committee chair positions. 
Senators elected new students 
as chairpersons for the allocations committee, the judiciary committee and the rules and ethics committee. Charlie Brown Jr. (Impact, Agricul-ture) and Jackie Phillips (Impact, Broward) remained chairs of the budget and appropriations commit-tee and the information and com-munications committee, respec-
tively. 
They also elected Impact Presi-
dent Janae Moodie (Impact, Liberal 
Arts) as the allocations committee chairwoman, Trevor Scheattle (Im-pact, District A) as the judiciary committee chairman and Isabella Muncan (Impact, Liberal Arts) as the rules and ethics committee chairwoman.
All five senators applied for the 
positions without opposition, said Senate President Pro Tempore Aus-tin Champoux. They were elected unanimously.
Scheattle said as judiciary chair-
man, he wants to meet with large Student-Government-funded orga-nizations to help them understand 
the legislation that allocates funding 
to them. 
“I would really prefer a lot of leg-
islation to go through,” said Sche-attle, who has served on the com-mittee since March. Champoux, who became the 
chair of the replacement and agen-da committee upon approval as Senate president pro tempore, said he would like to increase outreach for replacement senator seats. The 
committee consists of Champoux, 
two members at large, the minority and majority Senate leaders and the Senate president, all of whom are members because of their positions. 
Champoux said he would like to 
create videos outlining Senate meet-ings and help students get involved with SG.
“My main goal is focusing on the 
outreach for Senate seats,” he said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
Senate elects five committee chairpersons
Grace King / Alligator Staff
DUNKING FOR A CAUSE
From left: Multimedia news manager Bridget Grogan hits a target with a softball, causing Debbie Treise, 
the senior associate dean for graduate studies and research, to fall into a dunk tank. UF’s College of Journalism and Communications hosted its annual dunk-tank fundraiser to support the UF Campaign for Charities on Tuesday.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Lissandra, a 20-year-old UF English junior who declined to giver her last name because she is not yet out to her parents, explains her experiences to a group of seven students at the Institute of Black Culture on Tuesday morning. “You put yourself in the line of fire, ” Lissandra said.
Cannon
SHE PLANS TO USE 
GOFUNDME TO START HER 
OWN BACKPACK LINE.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alinda Saintval spends her weekends 
painting anything from Harry Potter to 
Bob Marley on canvas backpacks. Now she’s turning her hobby into a business. 
“I’m in my room the whole time, mu-
sic blasting in my ears, and I just go for it,” the 19-year-old UF zoology sopho-more said.
Saintval said she first began painting 
backpacks as a way to express herself as an incoming freshman at UF. Last week, she launched a GoFundMe page to help pay for 50 canvas bags she ordered from a wholesale supplier in China in hopes of starting her own business. 
Saintval, who has been painting with 
acrylic paint since 2014, said it takes her about five hours to complete a design. She uses acrylics and coats her work with a gloss to make it waterproof.After she posted a picture of a bag 
that she designed on a Facebook group called “Black Artists Connected,” she received hundreds of requests for prices and information about the custom back-packs. 
“When I posted, I didn’t expect it to 
blow up,” she said. “So when it did, it was overwhelming.” 
Saintval has sold 18 custom bags to 
people from across the country and in Canada. Customers have mailed their own canvas backpacks to her, which she paints and sends back.
She sells them for about $75, not in-
cluding the price of the backpack. 
This Fall, Saintval avoided schedul-
ing class on Fridays, one of the two days each week that she dedicates time to painting backpacks. She receives orders and commissions through her Facebook and Instagram pages, @artstrokes_.
Samantha Leidig, one of Saintval’s 
former teachers at Atlantic High School in Delray Beach, Florida, said she be-lieves the sky’s the limit for Saintval’s business and artwork.
Saintval recently helped Leidig illus-trate a children’s book, which is still in the works.
“Not only can she paint on back-
packs, she can paint. Period,” Leidig said. “She is somebody to watch.”
Although many of her designs depict 
African-American women, Saintval said she’s willing to paint anything custom-ers request. In the past, she has painted items with themes like “Bob’s Burgers,” Kanye West and Tupac Shakur.
As of press time, Saintval’s GoFund-
Me page has raised $302 in donations in six days. Her goal is to reach $500. With the fundraiser, she wants to launch a backpack line called “Duende.”  
“Duende,” a word used to describe 
inspiration and passion, is a way Saint-val said she sees all of her art pieces, which include canvas paintings, mugs and hand-painted sneakers.
Saintval said although some people 
have doubted her ability to run a busi-ness, she’s not going to let anything — or anyone — stop her.
“I keep hearing that it’s going to fall 
through, and that keeps me going,” she said. “I plan to go as long as possible.”WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Nicole Franco 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Residents can touch fos-
sils found within 100 miles of 
Gainesville today.
About 500 fossils will be on 
display as part of National Fos-sil Day and Earth Science Week at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History. The event, held from 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m., is free and open to the public.
There will also be guided tours 
through the Florida Fossils: Evo-
lution of Life and Land exhibit, 
where the fossils are kept, said Elizabeth Brown, the marketing and public relations assistant at 
the museum. At the discovery 
carts, children and adults can touch and explore the fossils. 
Volunteers will handle the 
carts as guests take an up-close 
look at different specimens from 
the museum, Brown said.The fossils span at least 500 
million years of Florida’s geologi-
cal history, according to the mu-
seum’s website.
Brown said she hopes people 
come out to the museum to see fossils for themselves. 
“I think it’s important for stu-
dents to take advantage of this event and use the museum as a resource,” Brown said. “This is a 
way where they can really dive in 
and explore fossils further.”
Lilian Sanchez, a UF microbi-
ology sophomore, said that while she doesn’t study archeology, she 
thinks the National Fossil Day 
event is a great way for students and Gainesville residents to learn more.
“I find bones to be interesting, 
and seeing skeletons of different creatures that roamed the earth — I think would be a pretty cool experience,” the 19-year-old said.Museum celebrates 
National Fossil Day
By Lauren Ayers 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For the second time, UF is 
hosting a free event to encourage 
dialogue about climate change.
UF’s College of Journalism and 
Communications is pairing with 
the Florida Climate Institute to host the second-annual climate-
communications summit today from 3 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in Em-
erson Alumni Hall. The event, 
called Higher Ground: Science, 
Storytelling and the Climb To-
ward Better Understanding of Cli-
mate Change, is free and open to 
the public. 
The main purpose of the sum-
mit is to bring up climate change 
in a way that starts a conversa-tion, said Cynthia Barnett, the environmental journalist in resi-dence at the UF College of Jour-
nalism and Communications.
“It’s really important that we 
do a better job of telling this sto-
ry, because it is one of the most 
important issues facing Florida, 
our country and our planet,” she 
said.
Anthony Leiserowitz, the di-
rector of the Yale University pro-gram on climate-change commu-
nication, and Neela Banerjee, a 
reporter on energy and the envi-
ronment and a finalist for a Pulit-
zer Prize, will talk about how sto-
rytelling impacts climate change, 
Barnett said. 
Politics and different points 
of view are big obstacles for the 
topic, but events like the summit 
promote the issue, she said.
Danielle Chanzes, a UF sus-
tainability studies and journalism junior who is helping put together 
the event, said she is excited to 
attend because of her interest in 
solving climate change.
The 23-year-old said she hopes 
the forum inspires others to take action against climate change. 
“I’m really interested in hear-
ing how storytelling can help us 
communicate this urgent, dire is-
sue of climate change to people 
who maybe aren’t so on board 
with it,”  Chanzes said.UF to host second-annual free climate-change summit
Courtesy to the Alligator
Alinda Saintval, a 19-year-old UF zoology sophomore,   
began designing bags as a college freshman. Last 
week, she started a GoFundMe page to help launch a line of custom-designed bags called “Duende. ”
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
TED T alk for Venezuelan’s Freedom
From left: Camilia Garcia, a 25-year-old UF economics senior, and Maria Estrada, a 21-year-old UF accounting graduate student, hold a special event through the TEDxUF club and UF Vensa, a Venezuelan organization, on Tuesday evening. About 30 people attended the event, which focused on different ways to help Venezuela with medical and daily-need supplies.
UF student turning backpack-painting hobby into businessThe event will be at Emerson Alumni HallThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Stay true to yourself and your beliefs
These past few weeks, I have been at-
tending a class in which we discuss climate change. During this class, we 
have been exposed to data, informa-
tion and public opinions on the topic. 
Most of the time, our professor makes us re-ﬂ  ect on the correlation between human ac-
tivities and the increase in temperature. Dur-
ing this time, she calls for us to think about our daily activities. I must admit, it is eye-opening and emotional to reﬂ  ect on this. For a couple of hours, I sit with these ideas, and 
in a melancholic way I ask myself, “Are we dooming 
the human race? Should I be more conscious of my daily activities?”
When I return to reality, I see myself driving my car 
to the nearest store to get an ingredient I need for din-ner. When I become aware of this, I realize that I got there on auto-pilot: I took my car for a 5-mile trip, I was stuck for almost 15 minutes in 5 p.m. rush-hour trafﬁ  c, I got here because I wanted one ingredient and I have 
to do the trip back. What? When did I make these deci-
sions? What overruled my judgment?
This happens to many of us in different aspects of 
our lives. You can ﬁ  nd yourself preaching and sharing 
your thoughts on topics such as texting and driving, 
underage alcohol consumption, submission to peer pressure and more. But, when the situation comes, most of us realize we act almost by instinct. Is this response attached to our societal inﬂ  uences? Is it be-
cause it is inscribed in our DNA to behave in order to 
ﬁ  t in? Or is it that we are members of a culture that conforms?
I believe compliance and obedience have, sadly, be-
come embedded in us. Since childhood, we have been taught that confrontation, rebellion, ques-tioning and disagreement with the majority are traits of the “bad guys.” Big corporations 
that inﬂ  uence media and image such as fash-
ion and television have incorporated this idea of acceptance into most of their projects. All of the movies I grew up watching had a pret-
ty girl who was praised for attracting a man 
with her beauty. 
Nowadays, we see how people have be-
gun questioning the origin and reasoning be-hind this behavior. I believe this should be 
celebrated, praised and become the new trend to follow — a trend that challenges ideas and sets new standards. Social principles based in community, equality, love, 
holistic decisions, avoidance of judgment and respect 
are some of the ideas that we see beginning to spread and make way into mainstream culture. 
Therefore, I highly encourage my peers to aid and 
feed this new wave and make it a trend among our community. Help eradicate trends that hinder the pro-gression of our humanity. Become part of the emerging ideas that resonate with your own form of compassion. Do not conform and submit if it challenges your integ-
rity.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Space Pioneers! 
Another race to space
Four ape-like creatures sat at the base of a tree in their rain-
forest habitat. They ate bananas, scratched their hindquar-ters, picked bugs out of one another’s hair and worried very little about the pressures of survival. Life was simple.
But one day while they were foraging, looking for some-
thing small to snack on, they noticed a bright light emanating from the edge of the forest. Curiosity ablaze, they cautiously ap-proached the border where the open frontier met the woods. The creatures looked at each other hesitantly. Afraid of the illumi-nated unknown, the four retreated back into the woods. How-ever, one creature, whom we will call Walt, walked back into the woods with his head turned over his shoulder, unable to shake the thought that there was a world beyond the forest.
Walt carried this tension with him for no more than ﬁ  ve sec-
onds, and he let it all out in one swift outburst. He turned around, ran toward the border and burst through the clearing like a can-nonball. Farther and farther Walt ran into the illuminated un-known, alone, unafraid and hungry for knowledge.
Walt was fearless, Walt was bold and Walt had spirit to boldly 
go where no ape had gone before. Walt, if you haven’t ﬁ  gured it out, dear reader, is named after Walt Whitman, an American fron-tiersman and poet who famously wrote “Pioneers! O Pioneers!” Whitman captured the true spirit of an American classic — you 
know, the one that doesn’t back down from challenges, seeks to 
understand mysteries and builds bridges instead of walls.
For many of us growing up, that spirit was embodied by cow-
boys and gold rushers who headed over to the Wild West of Cali-fornia. Some feel the pioneers who bravely traversed the frontier to get to Oregon represented this ideal best. Personally, California always meant vegan kale burgers, and we could never make it to Oregon because we always died of dysentery on the trail. So, for the rest of us, space is that Final Frontier.
President Barack Obama published an article on CNN’s web-
site Tuesday explaining some extraterrestrial discoveries we’ve made since he’s taken ofﬁ  ce. The list is impressive and includes the discoveries of ﬂ  owing water on Mars and ice on one of Jupi-ter’s moons. Both are massive steps forward in our understand-ing of life here and the fantastical possibility of life elsewhere.
He also announced that in the very near future, NASA will be 
cooperating with private companies to build “new habitats that can sustain and transport astronauts on long-duration missions 
in deep space.” Moreover, he expressed the possibility of placing 
one of these habitats on Mars, effectively colonizing it. 
Flashback to the moon landing: This was perhaps one of the 
most unifying endeavors ever undertaken by man. Every Ameri-can, regardless of background, thought it was nothing short of miraculous when we ﬁ  rst set foot on the glowing ball of cheese. Politicians on both sides of the aisle reached over and expressed their amazement and pride that, together, American innovation, American spirit and American drive fueled one of the greatest 
scientiﬁ  c projects in the history of our species. It is, in fact, mar-
velous, and it ought to be recognized as such.
Years ago, we rallied around the ﬂ  ag on the moon. Now, it’s 
time for us to rally around the ﬂ  ag we want to put on Mars. In times when science, technology, engineering and mathematics  academia has become almost fetishized, and in times when our education system as a whole has come to a slow march, a Space Race of our own generation could be the spark that ignites our nation’s fading spirit.
As Americans, it is not only our ability, but also our duty to 
explore the unknown. It’s as much a part of us as eating apple pie on the trail while reading frontier poetry was. Like Walt, we move forward, never backward, from the comfortable shade of our forest into the glowing pastures of truth.
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
“Become part of the emerging 
ideas that resonate with your 
own form of compassion.”WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
It was the summer after my freshman 
year of college.  I was 19 years old and staying with my parents for a couple of months before the new Fall semester rolled around. After a couple of weeks of 
putzing around the house, I started to receive subtle signals from my dad. He would come home from a long day of work and say some-thing like,
“You need to get a job.”OK, so maybe the signals weren’t that sub-
tle. I can’t blame him for wanting me to start pulling my weight around the house. I spent every day for almost a month smoking weed and making elaborate sandwiches from the contents of the family refrigerator.
I was out to dinner one Friday night with 
my parents at a fancy Italian restaurant called Esposito’s. My dad was a friend of the head chef and manager of the place, Tony. Tony approached the table and sat down next to me in the booth; his bulging tat-tooed arm swung onto the seatback next to me. He smiled and spoke in a thick Italian accent. His breath smelled like cigarettes.
“So you’re ready to work, yes?”I was confused when Tony pro-
duced a white button-down shirt and a black apron.
“Go into the kitchen and get 
started. We are very busy.”
I learned that my dad had applied for me. 
I could hardly ﬁ  nish my Caesar salad before the news was dropped on me that I was going to be busing tables at Esposito’s for the rest of the summer.   
Busing tables at Esposito’s meant always 
looking busy. If I wasn’t in constant motion, Tony, or any of the people on the wait staff, would reprimand me. So I paced around the dining room with my hands folded neatly be-hind my back. If I saw an empty plate, or any plate that wasn’t be-ing touched, I interrupted what-ever conversation was going on between the patrons to ask, rather sheepishly, if they were “still work-ing on it.” A lot of people didn’t hear me, or they pretended not to hear me. 
When patrons left, I had to clear 
the dirty table in a state of frenzy. 
This meant stacking plates and cups into un-stable formations and speed-walking through the tight spaces between tables to the dish pit. This area had no air conditioning and was steamy with the aroma of hot garbage. I would plop these heaping piles of ceramic into the sink, where a defeated Haitian dish-washer would curse at me in Creole.
If I dared to take my time while cleaning or 
took a break from my duties, one of the many tense employees would come berate me. You see, a restaurant is a machine. Working there, you must become a cog, always moving to keep the place running smoothly. I recall one night on the job when I spilled a full glass of red wine onto a table I was trying to squeeze by.  In my haste, I knocked the wine over with my hip, spattering it onto an older woman’s white blouse. She and her date got their din-ner for free, and I didn’t get paid that night.
On another shift, I was asked to box up 
a slice of pizza for an elderly gentleman. He handed me the plate, and I rushed back into the kitchen with it, only to knock into a wait-er hastily running into the dining room. The slice of pizza tumbled off the plate and onto the dirty kitchen ﬂ  oor, cheese-side down. I quickly picked it up, boxed it and handed it to the man without a second thought.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
The downfall of writing for the opinions section is that I only have so many accurate, or semi-accurate, opinions. There is a limit to the amount of truth I possess inside myself; the rest is 
pure inaccuracy. In light of this, I will never-theless delve into politics head-ﬁ  rst without a second thought about facts. After all, this is politics we’re talking about, the blank canvas we all feel entitled to throw our colorful opin-ions on. Who cares if the paint I throw looks like a 3-year-old’s attempt at drawing a pony? 
That being said, I must preface my opin-
ions with this: I am a Christian, and my faith informs my political leanings. That does not automatically make me a conservative or a liberal; in fact, I am often confused at Ameri-can Christianity, particularly with its affection for conservatism. I’m not sure Christians, or really anybody, should wholeheartedly give him- or herself to one political party or school of thought. To do so neglects the fulsome so-cial and political teachings of the Bible. 
For example, Jesus — the ﬁ  gure everyone 
tries to use for their own agendas — held radically liberal views about gener-osity to the poor, the helpless and the outcasts, while simultaneously afﬁ  rming conservative traditions such as the family, the sanctity of marriage and the importance of individual responsibility. And this pattern is not exclusive to Jesus alone: The Old Testament con-stantly chastises those who exploit the poor and marginalized (liberal), while also criticizing the poor person who chooses poverty due to his or her own lazi-ness (conservative).
Maybe Jesus and the rest of Scripture 
knew something we mostly forget in our po-litical beliefs: that not a single political policy, party or candidate carries the absolute truth. There are major ﬂ  aws in each side’s core beliefs. For example, a trickle-down, conser-vative tax system widens the economic gap between the haves and have-nots; a tax-in-tensive liberal system hurts small businesses and consequently stiﬂ  es the growth of the middle class, which is essential to the econo-my’s prosperity. 
Conservatives often deify a past 
policy or era and seek to conform what “is” into what “was.” In do-ing so, they are forced to overlook the dark truth that not all of Amer-ica can point to a certain time peri-od with nostalgia. Liberals, on the other hand, see time as a natural progression from the worse to the better, from ignorance to knowl-
edge. The liberal conscience assumes that today’s values are much more enlightened, much more morally sound, than those of our ancestors. Liberals read the literature of 200 years ago and cringe, ignorant to the fact that 200 years from now, people will be cringing at what we believe today. 
It is a fallacy to build one’s political house 
on the popular opinions and values of the day, because by deﬁ  nition what is popular now will not be popular in 100 years. Hu-manity does not simply become better the longer we exist as a species; the 20th century is a testament to this.But if neither the conservative agenda 
nor the liberal agenda is absolutely true, as so many of their adherents believe, then why just choose one? Why should anybody, in all cases of social, political and economic issues, latch on to one school of thought? I think it best that we pitch our political tents in the middle space between conservatism and liberalism. Some customs and policies have been proven throughout the human experience to be necessary and good: Fami-lies, marriage and a robust private sphere are some. 
But some ideas of the past are just those 
— ideas of the past. It is our job to decide which of those ideas needs to be cast aside so we can create a better and more moral re-public for today.
In short, I think it best to be neither a lib-
eral nor a conservative in all circumstances. The truth is much more complex than simply being a Democrat or a Republican.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and philoso-
phy sophomore. His column usually appears on Tuesdays.
Cheese-side down: thoughts on working a crummy job at an Italian restaurant
Politics and religion: The truth is more complex than conservatism and liberalismColumn
ColumnJeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
CAMPUS
By Livia Ledbetter
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Drag shows are a safe space 
for Triston Jefferson. 
Wearing a black-and-white 
scarf with a simple gray shirt 
and khaki shorts, the UF busi-ness administration junior said he has been to multiple drag events, 
many of which have been at UF. 
The 20-year-old, who grew up in Gainesville, danced with about 20 others, doing the “Cha Cha Slide” and other dances, at Pride Stu-
dent Union’s Drag Ball on Tues-
day night.
The ball’s theme, the Roar-ing ’20s, was chosen in relation to Pride History Week’s theme, 
The Next Generation, said Erick 
Fortiz, the internal vice president of PSU. The 1920s sparked a new era of culture.
“It’s our time to face our new 
issues,” he said. 
For the event, held in the Rion 
Ballroom at the Reitz Union, five white tables were decorated with 
white tablecloths marked with 
red polka dots and zebra-striped patterns, with vases holding black and red flowers in the cen-ter of each.
Attendees mingled at the ta-bles while Hayley Kiyoko’s “Girls Like Girls” and other pop songs 
played over the speakers. Some 
helped themselves to food pro-vided by PSU, including chicken wings, salad, spaghetti, garlic bread and brownies. 
Thomas Cusato, a 23-year-old 
UF business management senior, said he attended the event to be more involved in the gay commu-
nity.
“Drag shows make me feel 
confident, like I can do anything,” 
he said. 
During the event, Fortiz ad-
dressed the crowd, telling them the organization was going to ap-proach the event as a “kiki type of 
social,” meaning the ball would 
be a get-together among friends. Later, as he sat with friends, he set off a rainbow confetti blaster. 
For about three hours, guests 
could dance on or in front of a small black platform. Fortiz said he wanted to “switch it up this year” and made it so that there 
were on-the-spot performances, 
as opposed to the planned ones they’ve had in the past. 
He said his end goal was to 
make the event and all others as 
inclusive as possible. At about 7:30 p.m., PSU presi-
dent Carolyna Guillen opened the 
floor up with a “Cha Cha Slide,” which she and seven others par-ticipated in. 
Fortiz said this year the event 
was a way to wrap up the seri-ous tone of previous events like the Pride History Week activities, which ended Tuesday. 
“Some of the issues we face 
aren’t lighthearted,” Fortiz said. “This kind of event lightens up the mood for our community to engage in some of these social 
spaces, to let them know there is 
this beacon of hope.”
Students celebrate history, future at PSU’s Drag Ball
Etienne Trac, an 18-year-old psychology freshman, kisses her 
girlfriend, Jillian Rutkowski, an 18-year-old biology freshman, after the couple went onstage in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom and won best outfit during PSU’s Drag Ball on Tuesday night.
Modeling a Kardashian-inspired outfit, Triston Jefferson, a 20-year-old business administration junior, struts onstage in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom during PSU’s Drag Ball on Tuesday night.
Hosts of the Pride Student Union’s Drag Ball, 21-year-old microbiology junior Carolyna Guillen and 21-year-old hospitality and tourism junior Erick Fortiz, call PSU members and friends to the stage to walk the catwalk, vogue and show off their best mugs, or facial expressions. “I like the direction we’re taking this year, ” Guillen said. “Drag balls are supposed to be dance parties. ”
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
From right: Triston Jefferson, a 20-year-old business administration 
junior, competes against Rick Garcia, a 20-year-old public relations junior, for the title of best mug, or facial expression, during Pride Student Union’s Drag Ball, the final event for Pride History Week.
Rick Garcia, a 20-year-old public relations junior, responds to a request for pictures during Pride Student Union’s Roaring ’20s-themed Drag Ball. He said it took him three hours to put on makeup, a wig his outfit and to channel his inner Ariana Grande.
Carolyna Guillen (center), a 21-year-old microbiology junior and the president of the Pride Student Union, jumps while doing the “Cha-Cha Slide” in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom during PSU’s Drag Ball.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-14-16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Opposite of bold
6 Add a line to the
wall chart
10 Rack holder14 Modify
15 Mysterious letter
16 Inedible
pineapple part
17 Do some
browsing
19 Razor handle?20 Dueling sport
21 When Caesar is
warned to“Beware the Ides
of March”
22 Derisive look23 Public education
leadershipgroups
26 “The Merchant of
Venice” heroine
29 Bavaria-based
automaker
30 White figure in
Snapchat’s logo
31 Deafening sound34 Include36 Santa __ winds37 Where to find the
ends of 17-, 23-,50- and 62-Across
40 Took control of42 Like almost all
prime numbers
44 [see other side]45 Hal who
produced Laureland Hardy films
47 Transition point49 Leave base
illegally
50 Spago
restaurateur
55 Up in the air56 Remove from
power
57 Swatch options61 Shop class tool62 Breaded seafood
option on kids’
menus
64 Even once
65 This, to Picasso66 Poet Ginsberg67 Bold lipstick
choices
68 “Ouch!’’69 Water holder
DOWN
1 Shock into
submission
2 “My turn!”3 “A __ formality’’4 Takes over, like
bedbugs
5 Banned bug killer6 __-Roman
wrestling
7 Total, as a bill8 Newsman Roger
9 Very recently
painted
10 Song before
some face-offs
11 Legislation
affecting polling
places
12 Flubbed a play13 Closes in on18 “How funny!”22 Paltry amount24 __ Field: home of
Mr. Met
25 Stock holder
26 Vardon Trophy
org.
27 “This is horrible!”
28 Sign that may
cause U-turns
31 Amp (up)32 Lead source33 Hang on a line35 Artistic style of
Chicago’sMerchandiseMart
38 Lola’s nightclub
39 McDonald’s
founder Ray41 FedEx rival
43 Golfers rarely
making pars
46 New York golf
course that is afrequent host of
major
tournaments
48 Army NCO49 Courage
50 Be on the fence
51 Cooking oil source52 Cacophony53 Great energy54 “Hogwash!”
58 Sch. with the
mascot Joe Bruin
59 __ by: barely
manages
60 Figs. with two
hyphens
62 Tina who is the
youngest Mark
Twain Prizewinner
63 Price indicator
By C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/1610/12/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 12, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
LOOKING FOR A CAREER?North Florida Retirement Village is holding a Career Fair on Oct. 13th from 9:30am – 12:30pm.  We are hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!  We are seeking:  ● Nurses (RN & LPN)● Assisted Living & Home Care CNAs● Companions● Servers/Kitchen Porters● Cooks● Sous Chefs● Security Guards● Transportation Drivers● Painters Come out to our Career Fair to learn more about our employment opportunities.  We are 
located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL. 32606. Security Guards will direct visi-
tors once on campus. Please apply online at www.thevillageonline.com/careers.    10-13-16-6-14
PT cleaner needed ASAP for homes, apart-ments, & offices. Weekly pay/8.50 hr; Must have/use own transportation. If interested please call 352-214-0868; gas paid for driving to numerous places in a shift....10-18-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SMALL BLACK DOG MISSINGLOST ON SW 20TH AVENUE IN KENSINGTON NORTHBLACK SHIHTZUPLEASE CALL 352-213-1694 WITH INFO    10-13-16-5-25
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-18-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
1. HISTORY: Where did Lyndon 
Johnson take the oath of office fol-
lowing President Kennedy’s assassi-
nation?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the 
word “gesundheit” mean when it fol-
lows a sneeze?
3. MUSIC: What singer’s life was 
portrayed in the autobiography “Lady Sings the Blues”?
4. TELEVISION: Where was “The 
Untouchables” drama set?
5. ANATOMY: What is a more com-
mon name for the sternum?
6. SCIENCE: What is the unit that is 
used to measure sound level?
7. INVENTIONS: What was demon-
strated for the first time on Dec. 31, 
1879, in Menlo Park?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What are the colors of Israel’s flag?
9. MYTHOLOGY: In mythology, 
what do theriomorphic gods repre-sent?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What is the only 
Northeastern U.S. state that borders 
Canada but not the Atlantic Ocean or 
a Great Lake?
Answers
1. Aboard Air Force One
2. A wish in German for “good 
health”
3. Billie Holiday4. Chicago5. The breastbone
6. Decibel
7. Incandescent light8. Blue and white9. Animals10. Vermont
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 10, 2016 King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Johnny T ownsend has taken the competitive edge gained as a high school quarterback/free safety and converted it to a monster punting season. Read the story, pg. 14"It was probably one of the quietest places I've ever been at. 
I think we had more fans than they did."
Florida kicker Eddie Pineiro, on playing at Vanderbilt.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
GATORS IN THE NFLIT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINION
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Two young defensive backs had im-
pressive performances, a rookie lineman 
earned his ﬁ  rst NFL sack and a former Florida running back scored a touchdown in the Week 5 edition of Gators in the NFL.
First-rounders Hargreaves and 
Neal improving:
Cornerback Vernon Hargreaves lined up across from an old rival on Monday Night Football. The Tampa Bay rookie was tasked with covering Carolina re-ceiver Kelvin Benjamin, Florida State’s premier offensive weapon in 2013. Ben-jamin toasted Hargreaves’ Gators for more than 200 yards and three touch-downs last time the two took the ﬁ  eld. 
For Hargreaves, Monday night was an 
improvement.
In the second quarter, Hargreaves an-
ticipated Benjamin’s curl route, jumped in front and deﬂ  ected the ball high into the air where it was intercepted by a Buc-caneers’ linebacker. Tampa Bay went on to win 17-14 with the help of Hargreaves’ upgraded coverage.
This time, the rookie allowed Carolina 
receivers 70 yards on six of eight passes thrown his way.
Florida’s other ﬁ  rst round selection, 
Atlanta rookie Keanu Neal, knocked off the undefeated Denver Broncos on Sunday. The safety was instrumental in the Falcons’ win, forcing a fumble and allowing just four catches for 36 yards. Neal ﬁ  nished with eight total tackles and earned an impressive 92.1 coverage grade from profootballfocus.com. 
Atlanta head coach Dan Quinn — 
who served as Will Muschamp’s ﬁ  rst defensive coordinator at UF in 2011 and 2012 — spoke highly of the fellow Gator after his performance. 
“He’s a real factor in how we want 
to play defense,” Quinn said. “We knew we were going to have to play some zone, and he knew he really had to come 
 Hargreaves holds own on Monday night, Neal shines on Sunday
Hargreaves
It was a relatively quiet week 
for Florida cornerback Jalen 
Tabor.
There was no football game 
to play in, no pass to intercept, 
no receiver to hit in the backﬁ  eld 
on a bubble screen. So the corner was silent.
Until you glanced at his Twit-ter. 
Like most of UF’s players, he 
was petitioning for Saturday’s postponed football game to be played and retweeting others’ remarks on the Gators’ missed chance at a conference matchup. Some of his retweets included: “We supposed to be playin right now bro!” and “LSU VS UF needs 
to be reschedule I don’t care if we 
play in somebody back yard.”
On Tuesday, Tabor ﬁ  nally re-
ceived the chance to break his 
week-long media silence. And even though he spoke in a voice barely louder than a whisper, as is the norm for the conﬁ  dent junior corner, his words carried a tone that was anything but hushed.
“They think we skipped out 
of LSU. They think we got blown 
out by Tennessee. They think we 
ain’t smashed Vanderbilt like we were supposed (to),” Tabor said. “UMass hung around. That’s prob-
ably the perception they think.”
“They” are the critics. The crit-
ics who condemned last week’s 
decision made by the Southeast-
ern Conference regarding Florida’s 
home game against LSU. 
In case you’ve been living un-
der a sports rock for the last few 
days, the game was postponed 
due to Hurricane Matthew, and a 
reschedule date has not been an-
nounced and doesn’t seem likely. In fact, LSU athletic director Joe Alleva told reporters on Monday 
that it would “be very difﬁ  cult to 
reschedule this game.”
So, let’s play this out.
Let’s say Florida’s game against 
LSU doesn’t get rescheduled.
Let’s say No. 18 Florida ﬁ  n-
ishes its conference schedule un-defeated, which isn’t much of a stretch considering UF’s remain-ing SEC games include a home matchup with 2-3 Missouri, a neu-tral site game with 4-2 Georgia, a road game against No. 22-ranked Arkansas (4-2) and a home game versus 2-4 South Carolina.
Let’s also say No. 9 Tennessee 
— the only other legitimate chal-lenger to Florida’s claim at an SEC East crown, and the only team that handed UF a loss this season — ﬁ  nishes out its schedule with one more conference loss, presumably Dear  Southeastern Conference: Good luck sorting this mess out
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor (31) walks on to the ﬁ  eld before UF's win over North T exas on Sept. 17. "They think we skipped out of LSU. They think we got blown out by T ennessee. They think we ain't smashed Vanderbilt like we were supposed (to), " T abor said. " ... That's probably the perception. "
  
 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
SEE GINFL,  PAGE 15
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer
Everyone in the stadium hears the 
thump.
Following its usual rainbow trajecto-
ry, the ball twists, turns and spins until 
it finally meets the ground, hopping an extra 12 yards before being surrounded by orange helmets. 
Fifty-seven yards from the original 
line of scrimmage, Johnny Townsend’s punt has come to rest.
But those orange helmets aren’t 
Gators. 
They’re players from Orlando’s Boone 
High School, where Townsend starred as a punter and free safety before arriving in Gainesville in 2013. 
Now a redshirt junior, he took over 
Florida’s punting duties late in his fresh-man year and earned All-SEC freshman honors. Since then he’s progressed fur-ther, leading the SEC and standing sec-
ond nationally with a 50.21 yards-per-
punt average so far this season. 
But he said his success isn’t just 
thanks to punting practice or the natural 
kicking ability that was evident in high 
school. He also credits his competitive drive — a drive that started when he was a junior varsity quarterback or ear-lier, long before he was thumping foot-
balls at national kicking camps.
However, Florida fans have become 
more enchanted by a different thump. 
That’s thanks to kicker Eddy Pineiro, 
who’s elevated Florida from a team that 
ranked second-to-last in the NCAA in field-goal percentage a year ago to one 
that can realistically kick field goals 
from 50 yards out. 
Pineiro’s booming right leg has even 
led Gators fans to chant his name when he jogs onto the field. 
Nobody chants “Johnny” when 
Townsend comes out to punt. 
But that’s fine with him. 
“I think it’s awesome,” he said of the 
“Eddy” chants. “I love it … Keep it com-
ing.”
He added that he isn’t concerned 
with vanity and stardom as much as he is with helping the team. So when he runs out to punt, he focuses exclusively on his goal of pinning his opponent to either set up a safety or force it to drive the ball 95 yards or more.
“That’s where I get my gratification 
from,” he said. 
He also gets it from the competitive 
thrill. That much was evident during his free safety days at Boone. 
During a game against Orlando’s 
Timber Creek in 2010, for example, Townsend stared down a floater from the opposing quarterback. When the re-ceiver went up for the ball, Townsend 
hit him from underneath and flipped 
him over before high-fiving his team-mate and leaving his opponent lying on the ground. 
“I actually love to hit people,” he 
said. “And every time after I punt the ball, I sprint down as fast as I can to try to make some contact.”
Townsend said he’s recorded some 
tackles for the Gators, though the statis-tics don’t support his claim. 
However, his desire to knock pads 
with opponents while simultaneously perfecting his punting were evident on 
one play more than any other during his 
college career. It came against Georgia in 2015, and he said it was his most memo-rable football moment.  
With the score tied at zero and the 
first quarter about to end, Townsend was charged with, as he often is, pinning Georgia as deep as possible. 
He took the snap — thump — and 
booted the ball to UGA’s Isaiah McKen-zie, who ran under it at his own 5-yard line. The ball hit the Georgia return man in the chest before falling to the grass 
and being swarmed by five orange hel-
mets. 
It was kicked and hit and eventually 
rolled into Georgia’s end zone, where safety Nick Washington picked it up. 
Townsend, who was already sprinting 
down the field, met him there seconds later, jumping on his back and yelling between their intertwined facemasks. 
“Keep doing what you’re doing,” 
Townsend remembers Washington tell-ing him.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgTownsend embraces both craft and competition
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Johnny T ownsend, a free safety in high school, punts during Florida’s 38-28 loss to 
T ennessee on Sept. 24 at Neyland Stadium. “I actually love to hit people, ” T ownsend said.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
From left: Jonathan Haney, Eddy Pineiro, Johnny T ownsend and Ryan Farr celebrate on the sidelines during Florida’s win over Vanderbilt on Oct. 1 in Nashville.
Games PlayedNumber of puntsYards-per-puntLong Punts of 50+ yardsT ouchbacks
2013 6 29 42.0 61 5 5
2015 14 83 45.4 61 29  5
2016 5 42 50.21 62 15 2TOWNSEND THROUGH THE YEARSWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
at home against No. 1 Alabama 
this weekend.
That means, come December, 
some unlucky dude sweating 
through his suit whilst sitting in 
an uncomfortable chair at the SEC 
headquarters will have a difficult decision to make. Either send Flor-
ida, a team with only one confer-ence loss, to the SEC title game, or send Tennessee, the team with two SEC losses but which beat Florida earlier this season.
Ooh boy.What the hell happens then?Of course, the SEC may never 
have to deal with this mess. Florida may lose all of its re-
maining SEC games. Tennessee may finally unseat Nick Saban and the Crimson Tide this Saturday and take over the college football throne as the best team in Amer-ica. UT quarterback Josh Dobbs may win the Heisman. Backup UF running back Mark Thompson may reach his preseason goal of 1,000 yards by the bye week. Don-ald Trump may become president.
But all of those things, as in-
teresting as they would make the next few months, will definitely not happen. Instead, the likeli-est scenario is the one where the SEC has a messy controversy on its hands. One where either Ten-nessee or Florida gets extremely pissed off because, while both of their resumes scream SEC-Cham-pionship-Game eligibility, only one is allowed in.
Good luck sorting that mess 
out, SEC.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.
COLUMN,  from pg 13Tennessee has a chance to unseat No. 1 Alabama at home this weekend
through on some tackling. And that part of his game is continuing to get better. He missed a little bit there, but now he’s starting to hit his stride.”
Takeaways for veterans Nel-
son and Dunlap:
Rookies weren’t the only ones 
having fun in Week 5. Oakland captain and veteran safety Reggie Nelson recovered a fumble on San Diego’s first drive and recorded six tackles in the Raiders’ victory. 
Cincinnati’s Carlos Dunlap 
wreaked havoc against the Cow-boys. The defensive lineman blindsided Dallas quarterback Dak Prescott and forced a fumble in the third quarter. Dunlap finished with four tackles and 1.5 tackles for loss in the Dallas win.
TD for Gillislee, Reed remains 
consistent:
Only one Gator snuck into the 
end zone over the weekend. Buffalo running back Mike Gillislee took a pitch to the right from the 5-yard line and squirted between tacklers to extend the Bills’ lead in the sec-ond quarter over Los Angeles. 
Meanwhile, Washington’s Matt 
Jones didn’t have a great day run-ning the ball but converted an es-sential fourth and one against the 
Ravens on Sunday. He ended the 
game with only 31 rushing yards on 14 carries and gained 25 yards through the air. 
Tight end Jordan Reed was Wash-
ington’s main target in the passing game. He totaled eight catches for 53 yards and has eclipsed 50 yards 
receiving in each game this season. 
Bullard earns first career 
sack:
Chicago’s third-round pick Jona-
than Bullard wrapped up Indianapo-
lis quarterback Andrew Luck three 
yards behind the line of scrimmage 
in the third quarter. The defensive lineman has also upped his tackle total in each game he’s played. 
Noteworthy:
-Colts’ rookie linebacker Antonio 
Morrison recorded a season-high 
five total tackles in a win over the 
Bears.
-Browns’ defensive back Joe 
Haden recorded a season-high sev-
en tackles in a loss to the Patriots.
-Eagles’ receiver Trey Burton 
caught one of two targets for 5 yards
-Eagles’ kicker Caleb Sturgis 
went 3-for-3 on field goals including a 50-yarder in a loss to the Lions.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgGINFL,  from pg13Sturgis went 3-for-3Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
One week after its game against LSU was postponed, Jordan Scarlett (25) and Florida  will 
play Missouri on Saturday. "We're coming out trying to make a statement, " Scarlett said.
Aaron Albright . Alligator Staff
Jim McElwain watches during Florida's loss to T ennessee. On Monday, McElwain said he will not be involved in the SEC's decision to reschedule UF's game with LSU.
The Associated Press
Atlanta Falcons head coach Dan Quinn fist bumps an assistant coach during his team's 48-33 win over the Carolina Panthers on Oct. 2
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016
The Associated Press
LOS ANGELES (AP) — The night after 
Derrick Rose and two of his friends had 
sex with his ex-girlfriend, he had a hunch 
she was going to claim they raped her, the NBA star testiﬁ  ed Tuesday.
Rose said he became suspicious of the 
woman when she texted later the same day of the alleged attack in August 2013 to say how inebriated she had been and to describe burns she claimed she got on her 
hands from a ﬁ  re pit outside his Beverly 
Hills house.
Rose said he believed she was sober 
and never witnessed any burns the night 
before.
“It looked like a setup,” Rose said. 
“It turned out to be what I thought.”Rose was testifying for a second day in 
the $21.5 million lawsuit that claims he and his friends had sex without the woman’s consent when she was incapacitated from drinking and, possibly, drugs.
The woman claims the three entered 
her apartment and had sex with her while she was blacked out after drinking tequila at Rose’s rental house earlier.
Rose said the woman was sober and 
he assumed consent based on their past, a text message she sent out of the blue that morning saying he made her “horny” 
and her behavior throughout the day and 
night.
Rose testiﬁ  ed he was raised by a single 
mother, who was his mentor and had 
taught him to respect women.
Attorneys for the woman showed 
video taken of Rose in June testifying at his deposition in which he said he didn’t 
understand the word consent.
When asked by his own lawyer, he said 
he was nervous at the deposition and he 
deﬁ  ned consent as both parties being in 
agreement. 
He said the woman had consented all 
the previous times they had sex over an 18-20 month period.
Although they had split up a couple 
months before, he said he took her 
suggestive text the morning of Aug. 26 as 
offering consent.
“When she sent me texts like that 99 
percent of the time it ended up in sex, so 
what do you expect?” he said.
The Associated Press is not naming 
the woman because it generally does not 
identify people who say they are victims of 
sexual assault.
Rose was expected to wrap up his 
testimony in the afternoon.
The trial is proceeding even as a judge 
considers declaring mistrial after criticizing 
the plaintiff’s lawyers as “unbelievably careless” in production of exhibits.
Rose’s lawyers asked U.S. District Court 
Judge Michael W. Fitzgerald to declare a mistrial because they had not been given three text messages important to their 
case until Friday, when Rose was on the 
witness stand.
Fitzgerald, who used the phrase 
“unbelievably careless” several times, said 
it was not a frivolous matter and he told 
the lawyers to prove the texts had been disclosed.
“You have been very careless with the 
exhibits,” Fitzgerald said. 
“I was not happy about it.”The judge said that if there is a mistrial 
it would push a new trial into the NBA 
regular season.
Rose testiﬁ  ed that he has permission 
from New York Knicks President Phil Jackson to miss the next three preseason 
games until the trial is concluded.
The texts at issue were sent by the 
woman to Rose. 
The defense lawyers said they happened 
to be looking at exhibits handed to them in a binder Friday and noticed texts that 
hadn’t been disclosed before the trial.
The judge did not indicate when he 
would rule on the mistrial request. NBA star  Derrick Rose says he suspected ‘rape’ setup
The Associated Press
Derrick Rose plays in a preseason game on Oct. 4. Rose is set to return to the witness stand 
in a $21 million lawsuit that alleges he and two friends raped an incapacitated woman.
