We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 158 THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
The Alligator Awards
Which UF team — baseball or softball — had the 
most disappointing ﬁ  nish of the 2016 season? See our rally, pg. 18
UF athletics updates bag policy
The changes begin in September, pg. 5
GNV woman loses ﬁ  ngertip in robbery
She reportedly tried to rob a local apartment, pg. 8Student Government
Read the full version of the story at alligator.org
Read the full version of the story at alligator.org
THE EVENT EMPHASIZED 
THE GAINESVILLE 
COMMUNITY AS WELL.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
As the afternoon storms 
disappeared Tuesday, a rainbow 
appeared and a crowd of more than 600 people stood in silence as Century Tower’s bells rang 49 times.
The crowd gathered to hear seven 
speakers and take part in a candlelight vigil during the Pulse Commemoration and Unity Ceremony, honoring the 49 lives that were lost on June 12. 
UF illuminated Century Tower in 
rainbow colors June 16, and the tower will remain lit up until Friday, then changing to red, white and blue for the 
Fourth of July. 
Sara Tanner, the director of 
marketing and communications for UF 
Student Affairs, said the event is about standing together in times of tragedy. With Summer B just beginning, she said, many freshmen probably attended the ceremony as their ﬁ  rst non-Preview event on campus.
“We wanted to make sure incoming 
students know that this is a culture that cares about one another and that every Gator matters,” she said.
Approximately 650 students, 
faculty and staff were in attendance, Tanner said.
UF President Kent Fuchs said that, 
although the past cannot be changed, 
the community could use love and 
kindness to create a better future.  Hundreds gather on UF campus to support Orlando 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Tuesday night’s Student Senate meeting 
began with passionate speeches from senators after the UF community woke up to a letter by Student Body President Susan Webster, pub-lished in the Alligator that morning. 
Some were understanding, and others were 
aggravated or confused by the letter that in-formed students four amendments to the con-stitution were overturned due to the Student Body Supreme Court’s interpretation of Article VIII, Section 5 on Saturday.
Senator Aimee Dolan (District E) used her allotted minute to start the public debate. 
“It was really confusing to me why the ex-
ecutive branch was speaking on behalf of the judicial branch,” she said. 
The judicial branch has yet to release an 
ofﬁ  cial statement backing President Webster’s letter. 
Senator Macey Wilson (Fine Arts) said she 
is concerned with the Supreme Court and Presi-dent Webster’s lack of communication with the community. 
“We attempted to get some minutes and 
were told nothing existed, and this doesn’t re-ally seem transparent, especially since the press weren’t invited; we weren’t notiﬁ  ed; we didn’t know anything about it,” she said. 
The Alligator did not receive any direct no-
tice of the meeting from either the judicial or executive branch. 
According to the Student Government Con-
stitution, said Senator Shayli Patel (Hume), the 
Student Senate is the sole judge of election re-
sults, and it did approve the election results for the online voting amendment. 
Austin Young from Global Vote used his 
time to address another overturned amend-ment that allowed organizations to get only 5 percent of the Student Body’s signatures in-stead of 10 percent to put an amendment on the voting ballot.
Global Vote, he said, would now need twice 
as many signatures to get online voting back on the ballot.The amendment could also be placed back 
on the ballot if the Senate reached a two-thirds majority, which Young said he would like to see happen immediately. 
Young also said the prohibition of online 
voting is in the codes and not the constitution. 
He said the Senate could try to strike those 
codes and make online voting a law.
Senator Praveen Varanasi (District D-10) 
was the last to speak during the public debate, blaming SG for disenfranchising students. 
“The student that was living a dream by 
pursuing a study abroad in Spain; the student 
that is pursuing a promising internship due to 
their involvement in Innovation Academy; the 
student who works full time and cannot afford to relocate, so they take classes online — these 
 Senate reacts to Student Body president’s statement
SEE TOWER,  PAGE 4
SEE SENATE,  PAGE 4The letter was met with confusionIsabel Bonnet / Alligator
Frances Patala, a 20-year-old UF animal sciences senior, listens to the speeches made on Tuesday evening at the Pulse Commemoration 
and Unity Ceremony. About 650 people came to the event, which included seven speakers and a candlelight vigil.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Creative B Movie Series
On Friday nights from July 8 
through July 29, the Florida 
Museum of Natural History and 
Creative B will host free movie screenings and explore the bal-
ance between science and art with an expert panel. “Wicked Plants” 
and the “Butterfly Rainforest” will be open to the public for extended 
hours until 7 p.m. UF students re-ceive free admission to the exhib-
its with a valid Gator 1 Card. The 
panel discussion starts at 7 p.m., followed by the movie. Parental 
discretion is advised.July 8: “Mothra,” 1961, not rated
July 15: “Little Shop of Horrors,” 
1960, not rated
July 22: “The Thing from Another 
World,” 1951, not ratedJuly 29: “Matango,” 1963, not 
rated
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 158
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Take The Day
to DISCO VER…
Stay 
connected.
PLAZA     NO RTH    TOWN CENTE RBy Paige Fry 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF recently received 
more than $100 million be-
tween the state and a private donor. 
With about $97 million 
for the upcoming school year, UF tops the list of per-formance funds received from the Florida Board of Governors. 
The state had $500 mil-
lion to spread across its 11 universities, according to a press release. 
This money will be used 
to maintain UF’s infrastruc-ture and to hire well-respect-ed faculty, according to the release.UF received the most 
funds due to its high scores in research and in every 
other category the board set 
in 2014.
Just a couple weeks prior 
to the performance funding announcement, UF alumnus 
Joseph Hernandez invested 
$10 million to UF’s chemis-
try department, according to 
a press release.
At 43-years-old, Hernan-
dez is the youngest donor 
in UF’s history to make this 
large of a gift, according to 
the release. 
Bill Dolbier, a professor 
and chemistry department 
chair, said Hernandez’s do-
nation will be placed under 
the Joseph Hernandez En-dowment, and that he and other members of the de-partment will strategize how 
to best use the donation.
“His donation, as I said, 
will create an endowment 
which will benefit students, undergraduate and graduate 
students, probably intern-
ships for undergraduates 
and scholarships for gradu-
ate students,” Dolbier said.
A budget for construction 
of the building, which will 
be named Joseph Hernan-
dez Hall, is already in place, 
and Hernandez’s donation 
will be used for other costs.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF receives millions in June 
SHE IS PARTICIPATING 
IN THE #22KILL  
CHALLENGE.
By Marina Masterson
Alligator Contributing Writer
One student’s challenge 
will come to a close this 
weekend. 
On June 13, people 
watched as a girl lowered 
herself into a plank position 
on Turlington Hall’s second-story platform and completed exactly 22 pushups. 
Virginia Stanton, a 
22-year-old UF biology and philosophy graduate, said she is participating in the #22Kill challenge to spread aware-
ness of the fact that 22 veter-ans commit suicide every day.
According to the chal-
lenge’s website, #22Kill asks 
participants to post videos do-ing pushups with the move-ment’s hashtag in an effort to collectively complete 22 mil-lion pushups.
Stanton said she set out to 
complete her pushups in front of 22 different UF landmarks.
“If you go on Facebook, 
all the videos are the same,” Stanton said. “I thought, ‘How can I change it a little bit?’ And at the same time I was nostalgic about leaving UF.”
Stanton said she had to 
leave UF’s campus for the summer before the 22 days were up, so half the videos were filmed at her home in South Carolina. Her last video will be posted Saturday.
Jimmy Mac, a Marine 
Corps veteran and the pro-gram director for #22Kill, said Stanton’s videos were valu-able to the #22Kill mission.
“We want to thank the 
(UF) Student Body,” the 
36-year-old said. “We are 
one team, one fight. It takes everybody to take care of an epidemic like this.”
Stanton is currently com-
pleting training to become a Marine Corps officer.
“I can only imagine what 
veterans must feel like after 
they retire,” she said. “This 
challenge is scratching the surface, but it’s better than doing nothing.” UF alumna supports veterans4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
are all students at the Uni -
versity of Florida,” Varanasi 
said. “Yet when it comes to the voting system, they have an asterisk next to their name.”
President Webster was 
not at Tuesday’s Senate meeting. Instead, Ty Ro
-
bare, the Action SG chair -
man, made the Student Body President’s Office re
-
port. 
Senator Dolan asked Ro -
bare if he would speak for the president, and he de
-
clined. Student Body Trea -
surer, Kishan Patel, also declined to speak for the president.
During the meeting, 
Senate President Jenny Cle
-
ments said a notice for the Supreme Court meeting was posted on the public notice board.
Though they may have 
been taken down, no notic
-es of past or future Supreme Court meetings were found on the board the hour before Tuesday’s meeting. 
President Clements said 
she supported the Supreme 
Court’s decision but is dis
-
appointed everyone’s hard 
work is now overturned. She also said the Online Vot
-
ing Implementation Ad Hoc has been discharged.
In an interview with the 
Alligator, Webster said she has not met Chief Justice 
Christopher Tribbey in per
-
son, having conducted his 
interview over the phone before appointing him.
Webster said the court 
voted unanimously to over
-
turn the amendments, and that she was not involved in the decision. 
“As soon as I was made 
aware of it, it was my duty 
to inform the Student Body,” 
she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSENATE,  from pg. 1Senators spoke out
“I have not seen such a 
turnout ever before,” Fuchs 
said in an interview after his speech.
LB Hannahs, the event’s 
master of ceremonies and the director of LGBT Affairs at UF, spoke about the One Pulse Unity Project that is scheduled to begin July 7 and will run for 49 days.
She said the project 
will encourage students to write messages of support 
on paper, which will then 
be linked together and displayed in the Reitz Union.
“It’s about asking, ‘What 
can we do to make our community at UF and in Gainesville a better place?’” she said.
Director Gabe Lara 
and Program Coordinator Diana Moreno, both from Hispanic-Latino Affairs, read the name and age of each of the 49 people who died at the club.
Moreno fought tears as 
she read some of the names.
“It never gets any 
easier,” she said.
Moreno said many of the 
names sound like hers, and many of their faces seem equally familiar. 
Students from Orlando 
comprise a large part of the university’s population, and many of those students are 
part of the LGBTQ+ and 
Latinx communities, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said.
Carolyn Imes, a 17-year-
old UF international studies and management freshman, said the ceremony was the first event she experienced 
at the university. 
“It was a good start,” she 
said. “It shows that UF cares 
about all of their students.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgTOWER,  from pg. 1United in support
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
The University of Texas can 
now consider race as a factor 
for student admissions, but those guidelines don’t apply to UF.
In order to increase diver-
sity, admission officials at UT are permitted to look at an ap-plicant’s race and ethnicity for admission, as ruled by the Su-preme Court on June 23.
But the ruling doesn’t affect 
UF.
“UF is prohibited by the 
Florida Board of Governors to consider race in admissions, even as one of many factors in holistic review,” UF spokes-woman Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
According to UF law profes-
sor Darren Hutchinson, race cannot be the predominant fac-tor for admission.
Though studies have shown 
affirmative action to be very effective in creating diversity, race-neutral mechanisms are also effective, such as looking at socioeconomic status, zip codes and geography, Hutchin-son said.
Instead of using affirmative 
action, UF has implemented a number of programs to increase diversity within the communi-ty, Sikes wrote.
Some of the programs in-
clude the Black Student Affairs Task Force, the Bias Education and Response Team and Enroll-ment Management.
In recent years, black en-
rollment at UF, particularly with males, has decreased, she wrote.
“Dr. Fuchs, who started at 
UF in January, of 2015, along with Enrollment Management and Student Affairs are com-mitted to increasing the broad diversity of our community,” Sikes wrote.
mandrade@alligator.orgUF does not consider 
race in admissionsTHURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Nancy Massani
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The Living History Farm will 
celebrate its 40th anniversary Sat-
urday in honor of its dedication 
on Independence Day in 1946.
Morningside Nature Center, lo-
cated on 3450 E. University Ave., 
is hosting the event from 10 a.m. 
to 1 p.m.
The event is free, and guests 
are welcome to pack their own 
food. Attendees can also donate to 
the farm by purchasing ice cream 
and $2 old-fashioned wagon rides, 
according to a press release.
Donations will go toward 
the Friends of Nature Parks, the farm’s support organization, said 
Bricky Way, the recreation leader 
and farm manager. 
Several activities, such as 
tractor-pull hayrides, horseshoe throwing, patriotic pinwheel mak-
ing and more, will take place dur-
ing the event, according to the 
press release.  
Tithi Amin, a 21-year-old UF 
nutrition junior, visited the Morn-
ingside Nature Center nine years 
ago with her eighth grade class, and she said she remembers the 
day as if it were yesterday. 
“Walking into the house felt 
like traveling back in time,” Amin 
said.
The farm is used for historic 
education for the community, Way said. It’s a place where peo-
ple can experience what life was 
like before electricity and cell 
phones.
“We’d be more than happy for 
people to come out and enjoy a 
nice low-tech morning,” Way said. “Help us celebrate and have 
some fun on Saturday.”Living History Farm to 
celebrate anniversary
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer
At the next football game, 
Gators fans will be turned away 
at the gates of The Swamp if they 
bring certain bags.
A new policy prohibiting bags 
will begin Sept. 3, the first home 
game of the season.
Kara Campbell, a program as-
sistant for the operations depart-
ment at UF, said the new policy is working toward similar standards 
set by the NFL. 
Each fan can bring a clear one-
gallon, resealable bag or one clear, 12-inches-by-6-inches-by-12-inch-
es bag, she said, but not both.
Fans may also bring “a non-
clear clutch” 4.5 inches by 6.5 
inches in addition to their clear 
bags, Campbell wrote in an email.
In April, the Florida Gators 
athletic website announced the 
bag size as 18-inches-by-6-inch-es-by-18-inches, but the size has shrunk since then. Campbell said the new bag size is in accordance with other Southeastern Confer-ence schools that will implement, 
or have already implemented, this 
policy.
Lt. Alton McDilda, the special 
events coordinator for the Uni-
versity Police, said UF is starting 
the policy this year, but the SEC is 
standardizing it by 2017.  
“The University of Florida has 
always tried to be in the forefront of security considerations to make 
the venue as safe as possible for fans, players and staff,” McDilda 
said.
While the policy is only for 
football games at UF, he said, 
there is discussion of extending it to other sports games.
Officer Wayne Clark, a public 
information officer for UPD, said people frequently try to bring banned items, such as alcohol, into games.
“Hopefully the general public 
realizes that this is not only to keep everyone safe, but it’s also 
put into practice to decrease the 
amount of wait time that people 
have to be standing in line to enter 
the stadium,” he said.
Clark said if people come to the 
gates with banned bags, they will be turned away before their bags are even inspected.
“We’re not going to provide 
protection or a place for them to secure those items,” he said. 
“They will have to return to the 
car.”
McDilda said the rule is more 
of a security enhancement. 
While there may be complaints, 
he said, it’s not too problematic. 
“In our eyes, it’s a minor incon-
venience,” he said. “We apologize that they’re upset about it, but we 
can’t make any exceptions to that 
policy.”
For a full list of prohibited 
items, visit bit.ly/294RIk9.UF athletics updates bag policy
It affects football gamesThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnSo, here we are, dear readers: the end of June. For those 
of you experiencing your ﬁ  rst few days here at UF, we at the 
Alligator would like to welcome you. And for those returning for Summer C, sorry break was only a week. We realize our opinions editor failed to greet you all warmly and probably frightened you a bit Tuesday by jumping straight into a bleak look at the political scene… Damn it, David… you had one job. Anyway, in the words of The Black Eyed Beans — or whatever they’re called — “Let’s get it started (ha).”
Darts & Laurels
We start today with pornography: the substance we col-
lege students constantly abuse, aside from Ramen and caffeine — and Study Edge packets come ﬁ  nals week. An anonymous Pornhub user posted a video of prominent pro-Brexit advocate Boris Johnson delivering his Brexit victory onto the porn site and entitled the video, “Dumb British Blonde Fucks 15 million People At Once.” We give a shining laurel to this anonymous user for his beautiful contribution to the industry.
Though, in all fairness, the Brexit hasn’t come into effect, 
as we said in Tuesday’s editorial. So Johnson hasn’t really fucked 15 million people yet. At best, what we’re seeing is a bit of foreplay now that Johnson’s whipped out his referen-dum vote, which turned out to be way bigger than anybody expected.
And now, this Brexit energy is spreading. U.S. Congress-
man Thomas Massie, R-Ky., renewed his call for the U.S. to leave the United Nations, following Brexit’s lead. Former Alaska Governor and Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin also holds the same position – in case you needed some solid evidence to conﬁ  rm how horrible of an idea this is.
Clearly, we give the “Amexit” a dart. Our leaders must 
understand pulling out isn’t the answer. We need to stay in and go all the way, even if things get a little hairy.
And lastly, all kidding completely outside, we want to say a 
few words on Turkey. As many of you may know by now, the major airport of Turkey’s capital city Ataturk was attacked by three suicide bombers Tuesday night. According to BBC, the attackers killed 42 people, including 13 foreign nationals, and injured 239 people, with 41 in intensive care. Early signs sug-gest the attackers were connected to the Islamic State.
In times like these, words are difﬁ  cult to come by — very 
few can relate to or even fathom the trauma the people of Ataturk and the deceased’s families currently endure. Nearly 300 families are, now, forever changed, forever tormented, all because of these presumably jihadist attackers.
In times like these, vengeance is understandable — some-
thing must be done quickly. But we must also be reasonable. Terrorist attacks from both the Islamic State and the Kurd-ish Workers’ Party (PKK) have devastated Turkey for months now, and Turkish President Erdogan has responded militarily against PKK members within Turkey’s borders, as he should. However, in the process, countless ethnically Kurdish citizens have been killed.
As The New York Times reported in December, the Turkish 
president seems to heighten his rhetoric and orders of a swifter military when his political appeal is at stake. It’s no secret that appearing “tough on terror” is politically appealing, but we’re dealing with military operations that have far too little regard for Kurdish civilian life. 
We must be duly vigilant: Of course, we must combat ter-
rorism wholeheartedly. But, we must delegate strategy that prevents civilian death (which breeds future terrorism) and is not overwhelmingly politically motivated. Otherwise, we’ll see the same mistakes and outbreaks of preventable war repeated.
Navigating the wolf’s den of undergrad life 
Nestled in the evergreen woods of Fran-
conia Notch State Park, New Hamp-shire, past the visitor’s center and the 
uphill boardwalk through The Flume, is 
an attraction known as “Wolf’s Den.” 
The narrow climbing space drops about 10 de-grees cooler compared to the outside air, as it 
is enclosed by damp boulders and infrequently 
exposed to the sun. As my family and I, vaca-tioning near these woods, walked toward the den, at least three other families turned back. Whatever we were approaching would surely be arduous or fright-
ening enough to make them turn around, we thought. But 
we persevered. 
The tunnel brought us to our knees as the rocks 
squeezed closer together. Our crawl was brief, and we could see the light at the end of the tunnel. But once we neared the hole to the outside world, we realized our work had just begun. Climbers ahead of us had difﬁ  culty squeezing their bodies through the six-inch-wide gap to 
the surface and had to elicit help from the small children 
who’d already easily passed through. 
My brother somehow managed to pop his head into the 
daylight. Then, using brute force, he pummeled himself 
the rest of the way, a wide-set guy making the passage 
nimbly. It was ﬁ  nally my turn. I knew in the back of my mind I was afraid I wouldn’t be able to make it through as easily, or at all. I’d be forced to ask for help or even turn around. But I took a deep breath, angled myself just so and wiggled out like a wolf (I guess wolves wiggle? I don’t really know how they move in such a tight space).
What I’m trying to say, in my convoluted 
and metaphorical way, is college is a lot like the Wolf’s Den. At ﬁ  rst it may seem scary, like a hole with only a pinprick of light at the end, and 
that pressure can cause a lot of people to turn 
around or drop out. It may appear like other people can easily traverse the conﬁ  nes of col-
lege, like my brother mastering the den without a sweat, but looks are deceiving, and other people may be having 
just as hard a time. If you push past the fear, face it head 
on and at the right angle (with the right perspective), then you too can navigate the treacherous rocks. 
In my ﬁ  rst year of college at UF, I fainted in my most 
difﬁ  cult class, cried on the phone to my parents more times than I’d like to admit, went about the whole ﬁ  nding-my-purpose-in-life thing at the wrong angle and was too afraid to ask for help. But I also (ﬁ  nally) decided on a major and career path, made new friends, learned to seek help before 
I needed it most and ﬁ  gured out that my health and hap-
piness are more important than a 12-page paper on the history of birth control (I hope you never go through the same torture). During my time as your friendly neighbor-
hood opinions writer, I’d like to help each and every one 
of you ﬁ  gure out, like I did, that no matter how scary, unending, pressure-ﬁ  lled, anxiety-inducing or claustro-phobic the wolf’s den that is college may seem, there is always a light at the end of the tunnel. Sometimes, you 
just have to wiggle your way through like a wolf.
Emma Green is a former Alligator photo editor. Her 
column appears on Thursdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Emma Green
opinions@alligator.org
“What I’m trying to say, 
in my convoluted and metaphorical way, 
is college is a lot like the Wolf’s Den.”Since June has become the month of 
soccer for Europe and the Americas, 
many have dusted off their national flag 
sweatsuits and vuvuzelas. However, for 
U.S. fans, it’s difficult to start parading 
around with American flag capes. The U.S. needs better players, and to get them, Ameri-
cans have to play soccer.
The problem is Americans don’t consider 
soccer as a formidable national sport. Soccer’s what parents sign their children up to play, 
either because a basketball is still as big as 
the child or the parents don’t want to spend 
money on a baseball bat. However, this trend 
may be changing. This year is the first year the 
Copa America has ever been played in the U.S. According to a poll by ESPN, soccer 
has become the second-most popu-
lar sport among 12- to 24-year-olds. 
So, is this wave of international 
tournaments what plants the seed 
for soccer to grow in America? No, 
Americans still aren’t ready.
Let’s face it: Americans love scor-
ing, and soccer gives fans anything 
but scoring. Here’s how watching a soccer game usually goes: “Oh look, 
he almost scored.” Americans don’t 
watch sports for proper technique. 
They want someone to get dunked on, a free 
safety to take someone’s head off, a grown 
man to hit a ball 400 feet with a stick.While soccer may have the occa-
sional moment that displays athletic prowess, these moments simply do 
not occur often enough in a soccer 
match for the American attention 
span. Just take the final game of 
the Copa America this past Sun-
day. It was supposed to be a match 
between the two best teams in the 
Western Hemisphere. How did it end? 0-0. The game was decided by 
penalty kicks. I don’t even want to 
imagine the NBA Finals concluded 
by LeBron James and Steph Curry shooting free throws. What if the Super Bowl was de-
cided by field goals? Soccer is just the kind of game where even best players don’t score ev-
ery game, and it is precisely this that will keep 
Americans at arm’s length with soccer.
It also has to do with the way we learn 
sports: family. When I was little, it used to be 
that football or basketball merely consisted of 
the red team playing the blue team. It wasn’t 
until my father taught me sports that they be-
came about more than just a game.
Soccer may take hold in the U.S., but it 
will take a generation or two before the future Kyrie Irvings and Russell Wilsons are kicking 
around a soccer ball.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engi-
neering sophomore. His column appears on 
Thursdays.ColumnTHURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Joshua 
Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgAmericans aren't ready: Soccer will not be popular in the US anytime soon8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
CRIME
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a 
Gainesville woman Wednesday after 
police said she stabbed a man and lost her own fingertip.
At about 4:50 a.m., Jamaica S. 
Hill, 20, broke a glass patio door and entered a home at the Crossing at Santa Fe Apartments, according to the police report. 
Hill then went 
into the home and took a Samsung TV and other electron-
ics valued at more 
than $300, accord-
ing to the report. 
She then en-
tered the man’s bedroom and 
woke him up, at which point she pulled out an orange pocket knife and threatened to stab the man if he moved, according to the report. 
When police later arrived, the 
man told them Hill stabbed his legs 
several times, according to the report. 
Authorities found a pocket knife and a fingertip in the room. 
Police found Hill at an emergency 
room, missing the tip of her finger, according to the report. She report-edly told authorities she only entered the home when she saw broken glass and became concerned.
Authorities later found a TV stolen 
from the man’s house at the home of Hill’s girlfriend, according to the re-port. 
Police arrested Hill on charges 
of aggravated battery, criminal mis-chief, burglary and larceny. They took her to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, she remains 
unsentenced.
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgWoman loses fingertip 
after stabbing man
Hill
THE DRUG IS 50 TO 100 
TIMES MORE POTENT 
THAN HEROIN.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
On Tuesday, The U.S. Drug En-
forcement Administration released 
a report on the increased abuse of heroin and the issue of fentanyl, deemed much worse than heroin, 
being disguised as prescription 
pills.
The number of people reporting 
current heroin use nearly tripled be-tween 2007 and 2014, and  deaths involving heroin more than tripled between 2010 and 2014, according to the National Heroin Threat As-sessment Summary. 
Lt. Brett Rowlands, the com-
mander for the Alachua County Drug Task Force, said his team sees heroin cases in the county on a dai-ly and weekly basis. 
“It’s a very common drug these 
days,” he said. 
According to the recent threat 
summary, fentanyl disguised as prescription pills was possibly re-sponsible for the death of 19 people in Florida and California during the first quarter of 2016. 
“We tend to overuse words 
such as ‘unprecedented’ and ‘hor-rific,’ but the death and destruction connected to heroin and opioids is indeed unprecedented and hor-
rific,” said DEA Acting Adminis-
trator Chuck Rosenberg in a press release. “The problem is enormous and growing, and all of our citizens need to wake up to these facts.”
Fentanyl, Rowlands said, is 
50 to 100 times more potent than heroin.
“We’re starting to see a lot 
of deaths from it in America as a whole,” he said.
Fentanyl, according to the sum-
mary, is easy to sell and inexpen-sive to make.
Rowlands said he believes her-
oin and fentanyl use has gone up because it’s no longer possible for Florida doctors to write an exces-
sive amount of prescriptions, as 
was common in the past.
“Up until a couple of years ago, 
there was an abundant amount of pill mills in South Florida,” Rowlands said. “The government cracked down on them, and all of them shut down.” 
People were left with withdraw-
als when authorities shut down the mills, Rowlands said, and cartels took advantage by supplying more heroine to struggling addicts. 
However, The U.S. DEA and lo-
cal authorities are not the only ones to address the nationwide problem. 
CVS Health decided on May 25 
to include naloxone, an antidote to opioid overdoses, in locations throughout seven more states dur-ing the summer, including Florida locations this month, according to 
a press release.
“Expanding access to the over-
dose-reversal drug naloxone is a 
critical part of our national strat-egy to stop the prescription drug and heroin overdose epidemic – along with effective prevention, treatment, and enforcement,” said Michael Botticelli, the director of 
National Drug Control Policy, in a 
press release. 
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
Fentanyl drug use on the riseKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. Music Round-Up
Reviewing the latest in hip-hop hits, pg. 13
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
THE BLOCK PARTY WILL 
HOST MORE THAN 10 
MUSICIANS FROM 
THROUGHOUT 
THE SOUTHEAST.
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Downtown Gainesville will transform 
into an outdoor block party Sunday, with 
an electronic soundtrack and live art.
Over Easy Creative, a Gainesville com-
pany specializing in immersive music and 
art events, is teaming up with The Atlantic 
and Arcade Bar to take over the corner of University Avenue and Main Street for the first Over Easy Block Party. 
Les Voss, the owner of Over Easy Cre-
ative, said the block party idea has been a long time coming. 
“We’ve loved The Atlantic and Arcade 
Bar for a long time, and things finally lined up with the management and owners to 
make this a reality,” he said. “In the future we are aiming to do an even bigger block 
party, adding in the other venues owned 
by the Top as well. We are huge fans of their vision for Gainesville and their eclec-
tic touch on all of their spaces.” 
There will be three performance stag-
es for the event, which will feature more 
than 10 musicians, mostly electronic art-ists, from throughout the Southeast. Each stage will have a different vibe, from disco 
with live percussion to traditional house music to bass house music, Voss said. Big 
names performing at the block party in-clude Ancient Deep, B2Six, Jai Biotic and 
True Vine. 
“My personal favorite part of the trans-
formation is the alleyway, which has al-ways felt like it had untapped potential, 
connecting The Atlantic and Arcade Bar,” 
he said. “The transformation will feature a canopy of lasers hitting a disco ball, plants 
and a beautifully painted brick wall, along 
with the DJs playing overhead.” 
Live art and installations will be on dis-
play, with artists showcasing past work and painting live. There will also be wall 
projections and three-dimensional art 
pieces. Over Easy Creative has worked with Arcade Bar to create signature cock-
tails for the event. 
“If you are unfamiliar with Arcade Bar, 
it’s a lovely place to casually play some classics, and during our block party you 
can take a break from the action to play pinball or ski-ball and enjoy a cocktail — 
try the Earl Grey gin specialty drink, se-
riously,” Voss said.  “Everyone involved treats their work as an art, from the bar-
tenders to the musicians and painters. Cre-
ativity is everywhere.” 
The event starts at 9 p.m., and tickets 
will be sold at the party, starting at $10.  Over Easy Creative to throw party downtown
Courtesy to the Alligator
Sunday’s Over Easy block party will take over the corner of 
University Avenue and Main Street for an electronic music and arts festival. The Atlantic and Arcade Bar will take part in the event.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Over Easy Creative, a Gainesville-based music and arts event company, has hosted many events in town throughout the years but goes for its biggest event yet with the Over Easy block party this weekend. 
MUSIC
Inside Story teaser: 
Inside story description pg#10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Employee Jordan Parsons poses with Hydroslide beers.
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Swamp Head Brewery will re-
launch its sought-after summer 
brew Hydroslide today in an event 
that will donate $1 of every Hy-
droslide purchase to the OneOrlan-do fund.
The brewery known and loved 
by locals decided to bring back the summer favorite at their Dine Out for #OrlandoUnited event, and it hopes to raise money and do its part to support Orlando’s healing. “We’re inspired because we 
want to be Florida’s brewery,” said 
Brandon Nappy, the marketing di-
rector at Swamp Head. “Florida is very important to us and to know that such a tragedy happened in our backyard is horrible.”
Dine Out for Orlando United was 
initiated by the Florida Restaurant Association and encouraged eater-ies across Orlando to host events 
that would donate proceeds to the 
OneOrlando fund. 
Swamp Head got on board with 
the idea immediately.“Anything we can do to help out, 
we’re on board with,” Nappy said.
Hydroslide is a dry-hopped 
Kölsch-style ale that is popular in the summertime because of its light alcohol content and crispness. Swamp Head will also have a few 
special treatment batches available 
on tap. 
The event starts at 4 p.m. and 
will offer donation buckets around 
the venue if attendees want to go 
the extra mile.
“This is just one way that we can 
help out,” Nappy said.Swamp Head to benefit OrlandoBy Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Ever watched one of your favorite 
shows, seen actors your own age and won-
dered where they went to school? Well if 
your favorite show is “Bloodline,” one of 
the show’s stars has been walking around the UF campus with you all along. Taylor Rouviere, 19, plays Jane Rayburn in the hit 
Netﬂ  ix show and is going into her third year 
at UF as a biology and psychology double major. I sat down with her to talk about living in Gainesville and working on an ac-claimed TV show as a college student.  
Kirsten Chuba: Why did you decide to 
go to UF? 
Taylor Rouviere: I had to stay in Flori-
da for school in order to ﬁ  lm the show, and 
UF was the best option for me.
KC: What do you want to do after col-
lege? 
TR: My primary goal is to go to medical 
school and become a surgeon. Of course, if other acting opportunities come my way, I 
will always consider them and can always do both acting and school, as I have been.
KC: What kind of things do you like to 
do at UF/in Gainesville?
TR: I am a huge sports fan, particularly 
football, so I love going to the games in the Fall. I also enjoy going to gymnastics meets and basketball games as well. I am on the 
bowling team at UF as well, so that’s a fun 
activity of mine. Of course, we all love to study, so I spend more time at the library than I’d like to admit. 
KC: How did you get involved with 
“Bloodline?” 
TR: I’ve been in the business doing mod-
eling and acting since I was really little, and I auditioned for “Bloodline” during Spring 
Break of my senior year of high school. Af-
ter I was offered the role, I learned that we would be ﬁ  lming for months longer than I had initially expected. In light of this, 
the producers graciously helped me work 
around both my end-of-senior year sched-ule (graduation, Silver Knight interview, awards ceremonies, etc.) and my freshman Fall semester schedule so that I was able to 
both ﬁ  lm the show and attend school. 
KC: What has your experience on the show been like? 
TR: The show has given me the oppor-
tunity to meet and work with some amaz-
ing people, both in front of and behind the camera. The whole cast and crew is like a second family to me now, and they’ve all taught me so much. The actors on the show 
are all so extremely talented and it’s an 
honor to learn from the best in the business. 
KC: Your character has a much bigger 
role in season two, how was that? 
TR: It was really exciting to get the script 
each week and see how my character kept growing. This season, I was able to work with a wider variety of actors as well, which was really amazing. Some of my scenes were really physically and emotionally de-
manding, which enabled me to channel a 
part of my character that I had never ex-plored. Unfortunately, some of my favorite scenes from this season ended up on the ed-
iting ﬂ  oor. Hopefully season three will have 
even more in store for my character. 
To see Rouviere in action, catch the 
newly released season two of “Bloodline” 
on Netﬂ  ix. THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Courtesy to the Alligator
T aylor Rouviere (left, with actress Sissy Spacek), is a UF junior and plays 
Jane Rayburn in hit Netﬂ  ix show “Bloodline. ” The second season of the show, which has a bigger role for Rouviere, was released May 27. 
 Q&A: UF student and ‘Bloodline’ actress Taylor Rouviere
INTERVIEW
“Some of my scenes were really 
physically and emotionally demanding, 
which enabled me to channel a part 
of my character that I had never 
explored.”
T aylor Rouviere
UF student and “Bloodline” actress12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Whether it’s your ﬁ  rst weekend 
in college (welcome freshmen!) or 
not, Summer B is a great time to be out and about in GainesVegas, and Fourth of July weekend makes 
a good time even better. If you’re 
looking to stay in town, and pass on the chaos that will be Ginnie Springs or Bob’s River Place, below are some things that you should check out.
Friday, July 1:Root & Pecker, located at 5408 
NW Eighth Ave., will host a food 
truck rally and live music celebra-
tion from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Food trucks include Cilantro Tacos and Sweet Dreams of Gainesville, and proceeds from the event will go to Rebuilding Together NCF, which beneﬁ  ts the needy in Alachua County. 
In celebration of Independence 
Day, tickets for the Hippodrome State Theatre’s hit show “The Tox-ic Avenger” are going for $17.76 this weekend. Tickets for all active duty military, veterans and ﬁ  rst re-sponders will be free, according to the show’s Facebook page, and Fri-
day’s show starts at 8 p.m.
Saturday, July 2:
Alachua County Farmers Mar-
ket is hosting a Fourth of July fes-tival at 5920 NW 13th St. The fes-tival runs from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and will feature the usual farmers market staples, plus food trucks, Kona Ice and a rafﬂ  e, according to 
the event’s Facebook page. 
Can’t decide whether you 
love the ’80s or ’90s more? Well 
this weekend, you don’t have to choose. Saturday night, The Back-yard at Boca Fiesta is hosting an ’80s night dance party from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m with no cover. Just down the street, you can travel 10 
years through time to The Atlantic, 
where the venue is hosting a ’90s dance party, also from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., with a $3 cover. 
Sunday, July 3:For Gainesville’s best ﬁ  reworks 
display, come out to the Fanfares & Fireworks event at Flavet Field. Live music will proceed the ﬁ  re-
works, including performances from The Savants of Soul and 
Gainesville Community Band. Fire-works will go off at approximately 
9:40 p.m., and as an insider tip, 
there’s a great view of them from the UF Commuter Lot parking ga-rage. 
The Jones, located at 203 SW 
Second Ave., is hosting a Summer Grill & Chill event in conjunction with Gainesville Art Scene from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. There will be a 
special menu and discounts on al-
coholic drinks, along with local ar-tisans set up and showcasing their work, according to the Facebook event page. 
Monday, July 4With a short drive down Inter-
state 75, you can also head down to Alachua for “The Largest Small 
Town Fireworks Display in Amer-
ica.” The show attracts more than 30,000 visitors every year, accom-panied by a festival with water slides, rock wall climbing, danc-ing, vendors and live music. The event runs from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. at Alachua’s Hal Brady Recreation Complex, located at 14300 NW 146 
Terrace. 
This weekend in Gainesville
By Chase Granger 
Avenue Writer
Cinema Verde is hosting a spe-
cial screening of the documen-
tary “Moosehead’s Wicked Good Plan” on Wednesday at Market Street Pub & Cabaret, located at 112 SW First Ave. 
Director Sarah Katz will be at-
tending the screening, which will run from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The ﬁ  lm is about 30 minutes long, and the remainder of the time will be used as an open discus-sion about the effects that result from the development of forested areas. 
The documentary is about a 17 
million acre forest in Maine that is threatened by development proposed by the landowner. The situation is similar to a local pro-posal, which is why the screening will be sponsored by Sierra Club 
Suwannee’s St. John’s Group and 
Stand By Our Plan. 
Cinema Verde is a nonproﬁ  t 
organization in Gainesville that sponsors the Gainesville Inter-
national Environmental Film and 
Arts Festival. According to its 
website, Cinema Verde’s mission 
is to bring community organiza-
tions, businesses and citizens to-
gether to help forge sustainable 
solutions for the future.  
Tickets for the event can be 
purchased at cinemaverde.org/tickets, with a suggested dona-
tion price of $10. 
More information about the 
local land proposal can be found 
at standbyourplan.org.  Festival to screen 
ﬁ  lm on deforestation
LOCALTHURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterBy Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
DJ Esco – “Project E.T.” – 
June 24
DJ Esco dropped his mixtape 
“Project E.T.,” hosted by Future, 
last week. As much as I didn’t want 
to admit it, Future’s last two proj-
ects, “EVOL” and “Purple Reign,” 
were not good. Besides a few good 
songs, Future was on the verge of 
getting played out after completely dominating 2015, but that didn’t 
happen. I wasn’t expecting much 
out of this mixtape, and I was thor-
oughly surprised. “Project E.T.” is 
absolute ﬁ  re. Future on this tape 
sounds like “Beastmode” Future: 
straight bars and catchy hooks. 
“Project E.T.” has a dope lineup of 
artists throughout the tape, such as 2 Chainz, Drake, Juicy J, Lil Uzi 
Vert, Young Thug, Rae Sremmurd 
and more. You can grab this mix-
tape for free on various mixtape 
sites, so take advantage of it.
The Game – “Streets of Comp-
ton” – June 17
The Game dropped a soundtrack 
album for his three-part documen-tary series, which aired on A&E, 
that details life in Compton, Cali-
fornia. A lot of talent has come out 
of Compton, such as The Game, 
himself, Kendrick Lamar, Dr. Dre and more. The Game is still one of 
the most overlooked rappers, de-
spite being in the rap game for over 
a decade. “Streets of Compton” is a 
solid album.
YG – “Still Brazy” – June 17
YG’s sophomore album “Still 
Brazy” was ﬁ  nally released on June 17, and it was deﬁ  nitely worth the 
wait. “Still Brazy” sounds like a 
true 1990s West Coast gangster rap 
album. YG drops some serious bars 
on this album, and the features are 
on point as well. The beats are su-per catchy, and you won’t be able 
to keep yourself from dancing or 
moving along to this album. “Still 
Brazy” has a variety of songs from 
YG, from addressing him getting 
shot on “Who Shot Me?” to sto-
rytelling tracks like “Gimmie Got 
Shot,” and he even gets political 
on “FDT,” which is a strong mes-sage to one of the presidential can-
didates (you can probably ﬁ  gure 
out the acronym). The album also 
consists of the successful singles 
“Twist My Fingaz” and “Why You 
Always Hatin?,” which features 
Drake. YG gave us a classic album 
in “Still Brazy,” and you should 
most certainly give it a listen.
Wale – “Summer on Sunset” 
– June 17
A lot of people hate on Wale 
and don’t give him enough credit. While he might not be the best 
rapper, he deﬁ  nitely makes some 
quality music and is a better lyricist 
than a lot of other rappers out there 
today. A couple weeks ago, Wale debuted his new mixtape “Summer 
on Sunset” on DJ Khaled’s “We 
The Best” radio show on Beats 1 
Radio. Wale has made a few clas-
sic mixtapes, such as “The Mixtape 
About Nothing” and “Folarin,” just 
to name two, and did it again with 
“Summer on Sunset.” This mixtape 
is really good, and even those who usually bash Wale have to admit 
it. Head over to datpiff.com and 
download it for free.
Kodak Black – “Lil B.I.G. 
Pac” – June 10
Kodak Black, a 19-year-old rap-
per out of Pompano Beach, Florida, 
took over Florida virtually over-
night and soon blew up across the country. Kodak was just recently 
named to XXL Magazine’s 2016 
Freshmen Class, and that honor is 
much deserved. You can download 
this mixtape for free, and I strongly 
suggest you do.
A.CHAL – “Welcome to Gazi” 
– June 3
There’s a good chance you 
haven’t heard of A.CHAL before, and that’s expected. A.CHAL is 
somewhat of a ghost. There’s very 
little information about him on the internet besides that he’s Peruvian 
and is based out of California. I, like 
many others, got put onto A.CHAL 
after his song “Round Whippin” was played right after Drake de-
buted “What A Time To Be Alive” 
back in September 2015. I’m a fan 
of A.CHAL, and I’m always up to 
date on the newest releases, and 
even I didn’t notice he released his extended play “Welcome to Gazi” 
nearly a month ago. I’m writing 
on this EP because it’s one of the 
best projects to come out this year. A.CHAL’s production and vocals 
are really trippy, but really dope. 
Take half an hour out of your day 
and listen to one of the best proj-
ects to be released this year.   Reviewing the latest hip-hop hits
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
YG’s new album, “Still Brazy, ” released June 17, can be bought 
on iTunes for $11.99. 
14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Miami-based band Heavy Drag 
is gearing up for its summer tour 
that will kick off with a perfor-
mance at The Atlantic on July 6. 
Heavy Drag is not a run-of-the-
mill band. The band is composed 
of four members: Jacob Israel on 
guitar, Michael Ruiz-Unger on 
bass and vocals, Andres Bedoya 
on drums and percussion and An-
dreas Wong Chong on guitar and vocals, who are all involved in dif-ferent creative outlets. Ruiz-Unger 
has even had success publishing 
his very ﬁ  rst comic book “Dark Beach.”
“The four of us used to be a 
band called Lil Daggers,” Israel 
said. “Now we’ve been a band for 
about two years.”
Israel is as laid back as a rock-
star on the rise can be, and calls 
his band mates “dudes” frequent-
ly. All four musicians also belong to another band as drummers. 
After recording their ﬁ  rst long 
playing record, Sábana Ghost, a 
year ago, the band is excited have 
it ﬁ  nally released on July 22. 
“Putting out records takes for-
ever,” Israel said.
All four members believe in 
original content and creating 
something unique to stand apart 
from the music industry. Israel de-scribes the band as something that goes against the grain of everyday music. 
“We’re pretty creative dudes,” 
he said.
The fan base agrees, and so 
does columnist Bao Le-Huu, who 
described Heavy Drag as packing 
“every bit of tonnage their name promises.”
Catherine Herrick, the band’s 
publicist, started out as a fan.
“I knew within the ﬁ  rst few 
moments of listening that I wanted to work with them,” Herrick said. “It’s rare that something hits me 
that immediately, so when that 
happens, it’s very, very exciting.”
Sábana Ghost, which translates 
to sheet ghost, will debut their 10-track album in mid-July, but 
right now their ﬁ  rst single, “Kinda 
Slow,” is available at limitedfan-fare.bigcartel.com.
The tour will start in Gainesville 
at The Atlantic at 9 p.m. on July 6. The event will also feature the bands Dark Hedges and Average Friend. Tickets are available at the door for $5. 
For the band that is described 
as Miami Psych Rock, this tour is a major milestone that will take them all the way to New York this 
summer.
“We’re just excited to be doing 
this,” Israel said.Miami band to kick oﬀ   tour in downtown Gainesville
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Miami band Heavy Drag will begin its new tour with a July 6 show at The Atlantic. Tickets 
for the show are available online or at the door for $5. 
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. available 7/1/16 & 
8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed in-ternet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   6-30-16-4-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
Grad looking for male roommate postdoc, grad or mature undergrad. 2/2 apt, close to UF, avail Aug 1st, $350/mo + 1/2 util, con-tact Larry 443-939-6198. Located country village apt 2700 SW Archer Rd, Gainesville, FL     7-21-16-7-1Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry....  1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        6-30-16-6-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Housemate wanted to share a lovely pool home in a beautiful safe area. You'd have 2BRs & pvt BA. Female preferred but not nec-essary. Call 352-214-6512 afternoons for more details.    6-30-6-4
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
For Sale - 1Bedroom/1 Bathroom,Renovated Ground floor unit, Ride the bus or bike to UFAsking $61,500352-234-3018 for info       7-7-5-5
NATIONAL FOREST LIQUIDATION!5 ACRES $9,900!OWN A PIECE OF THE HIGH COUNTRY100-MILE VIEWS WITH THE COUNTRY’S BEST TRAIL SYSTEM3 PROPERTIES REMAININGDON’T MISS OUT!CALL 1-888- 270-4695     6-30-1-5
*** NC MOUNTAINS ***Ranch-Style 2/Bed, 2/Bath Log HomeOn 2 Private, Level Acres - Only $157,900Fireplace, Screened Back PorchToo Many Features to List!828-286- 2981     6-30-1-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
LP VINYL BLOWOUT SALE!
400+ records $2-$5 (or 10/$18): blues/ 50s 
r+r / country/1960-80 artist/ jazz/big band (+ 
45s/78s). Waldo Antique Village, 17805 U.S. 301 
(352.468.3111). BOOTH MJC. Show ad=10% off 
$20+ other MJC items (except "firm").    7-5-8-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
WHITE PEACE SPORT 2015
With storage, 346 miles. Asking $1000 OBO 
Call 409-988-1505    7-5-16-5-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     7-14-16-7-12Designated drivers are the greatest
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     6-30-1-12
DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention &; Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556     6-30-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191      7-14-16-7-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
FT/PT Customer Service Representatives needed. Must be 18+, and have a computer with internet service and a landline tele-phone. Guaranteed at least 15 hrs/wk. Call 1(8444) 539-8735.    6-30-16-6-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com      7-5-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
6-30-16-3-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
F/T receptionist for busy law firm. Communication, attention to detail, and multi-tasking skills a must. Previous experi -
ence a plus. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com      7-14-16-6-14
The Village at Gainesville Career Fair
North Florida Retirement Village
is hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!
Come out to our Career Fair on June 29th
from 9am - 2pm to learn more about
our employment opportunities.
We are seeking Nurses, C.N.As, 
Companions, Servers/Kitchen Porters,
Cooks, and Painters.
We are located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd.,
Gainesville, FL 32606. Please apply online
at www.thevillageonline.com/careers.
6-30-16-2-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers- Avg. $60k+/yr$2k Sign-On BonusFamily Company w/ Great MilesLove Your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com     6-30-1-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE     6-30-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-1511Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
1. HISTORY: Which American Rev-
olution conflict featured “the shot 
heard round the world”?
2. FOOD & DRINK: From what 
plant is the spice saffron obtained?
3. MYTHOLOGY: What mythical 
monster had a lion’s head, a goat’s body and a snake’s tail?
4. LANGUAGE: What is xenopho-
bia? 
5. MOVIES: Who played the lead 
character in “Hellboy”?
6. MEDICAL: What is the medical 
term for a nosebleed?
7. LITERATURE: This 19th-century 
poet wrote “Leaves of Grass”?
8. MUSIC: How many notes are in a 
major scale?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the last letter of the Greek alphabet?
10. GEOGRAPHY: What is an atoll?
Answers
1. Battles of Lexington and Concord2. Crocus3. Chimera
4. A fear of foreigners or strangers
5. Ron Perlman6. Epistaxis7. Walt Whitman8. Seven (the eighth note duplicates 
the first at double its frequency)
9. Omega10. A ring-shaped coral island sur -
rounding a central lagoon
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 27, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
16 Health Services
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305    6-30-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099     6-30-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142     6-30-1-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 7/11-7/14 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      7-7-4-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary! Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion! 855-479- 7963     6-30-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429     6-30-1-15
ACROSS
1 Work with dough
6 Like long shots
10 Commando
weapons
14 “Bates Motel”
airer
15 Third follower
16 Stereotypical
spoiler
17 Imbibing no more
19 Expression of
pre-weekend
gratitude
20 Okay
21 Disturbance
22 Identify the
source of
23 Tropical
quencher
27 Text digitization
meth.
30 Cut some blades
31 Singer Liz32 Pop quiz
reaction, perhaps
34 Geneva-based
commerce gp.
35 Poet who wrote
about shrimp, “At
times,
translucence / Is
rather anuisance”
38 “The Deer
Hunter” ordeal
42 Parts of an old
item?
43 Lively
44 For two, in Paris45 Stocky dog47 “Delicious!”49 __ sequencing50 Restaurant
mascot with an
electric guitar
54 Actress
O’Donnell
55 Noun half?56 “Red” hindrance60 Hazmat-
monitoring org.
61 Based on the
ends of 17-, 23-,38- and 50-Across,unwanted thingthat this puzzlelacks
64 Square __
65 37-Down plus
two
66 Buenos __67 Subdue, in a way68 Dudes69 Check (out)DOWN
1 “Get Smart”
crime org.
2 Prefix with bot
3 Sinus docs
4 Formed for a
particular
purpose
5 “E.T.” actress
Wallace
6 It grows toward
evening
7 Prepare to surf
8 Texting qualifier9 Dudes
10 Lacking
experience
11 Appraised like
many big-cityeateries
12 How seafood is
shipped
13 Less dicey
18 Texas I-35 city
22 Grounded flier
since 2001
24 Present
preceder?
25 Till
26 You, once27 Brute28 Main point29 Plants with
stickers
33 Colleague
34 Droll36 Leave
flabbergasted
37 65-Across minus
two
39 “The Morning
Watch” novelist
40 One may stop
traffic
41 Makes oneself
scarce
46 Jaguar classic
47 Certs alternative
48 Fit well50 “Tomb Raider”
heroine Lara
51 Book after Daniel
52 Hard to hoist
53 Code of conduct
57 Flight-related
prefix
58 Fledgling’s sound59 Ultimatum word61 Magic show effect62 Post-op place63 “It __ a Very
Good Year”
By Julian Lim©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/30/1606/30/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 30, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 15 Services 15 Services
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Alonso signs pro contract with Mets
The New York Mets announced on Wednesday that they signed former Flor-
ida ﬁ  rst baseman Peter Alonso, their second-round pick in the 2016 MLB Draft. Alonso will report to the Single-A Brooklyn Cyclones. According to MLB.com's Jim Callis, Alonso and the Mets agreed to a $909,200 contract. Vote for the Florida team you think had the most 
disappointing ﬁ  nish to its season on Twitter at              @alligatorSports.THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Sean Doty 
Sports Writer
Two Florida swimmers and one in-
coming UF swimmer competed in the 
100-meter freestyle on Wednesday for a chance to qualify for the Summer Olympics in Rio.
Caeleb Dressel, who broke NCAA 
and American records at the 2016 NCAA Championships, led the way for all Gator swimmers. 
Finishing with a final time of 48.53 
seconds, Dressel placed second in his semifinal event and will compete in the 100-meter freestyle final tonight.
The Florida swimmer finished 0.62 
seconds behind three-time Olympic gold medalist Nathan Adrian and third among all swimmers. 
Along with Dressel, former UF 
swimmer and Olympic gold medal-ist Conor Dwyer finished third in his semifinal event. 
With a final time of 49.18 seconds, 
Dwyer claimed the eighth and final 
spot in the 100-meter freestyle final. 
Having already clinched a spot 
in both the 200- and 400-meter free-
style, Dwyer will look to punch his third ticket to the Summer Olympics tonight.
In addition to both current and for-
mer Florida swimmers, future Gator Maxime Rooney also competed in Wednesday night’s 100-meter free-style semifinal. 
Finishing his race in sixth in 49.26 
seconds, the 18-year-old native from Livermore, California, came just un-
der a tenth of a second short from ad-
vancing to the final round. 
Eleven-time Olympic medalist and 
former Florida swimmer Ryan Lochte was originally scheduled to compete in Wednesday night’s 100-meter semi-finals. 
But after finishing sixth overall in 
his heat race earlier that morning, 
Lochte was scratched from the event 
with
As he prepares for tonight’s final 
round, Dressel will look to become the fourth different Gator swimmer to qualify for this year’s Olympics.
Coverage for tonight’s races begins 
at 7 on NBC. 
sdoty@alligator.org 
@TheRealSeanDoty  Dressel, Dwyer advance to freestyle ﬁ  nals
They will compete tonight
IT'S COHEN DOWN
T        he Summer-sports lull is here, but most impor-tantly, the NBA season is over, leaving avid bas-ketball fans grasping and 
clinging at whatever small sliver of sports gossip falls through the July news wires. With NBA teams ofﬁ  cially allowed to begin wooing free agents at 12:01 a.m. on Friday, here’s a few observa-tions ahead of the impending NBA offseason
Kevin Durant should join the Golden 
State Warriors 
No, I’m not a Warriors fan. I am not a 
Thunder hater, either. 
I don’t even enjoy watching Kevin Durant 
play that much, even understanding that he may be the best pure scorer in the NBA with a freakishly long build and unnaturally elite ball control.
I have no biases on this particular subject, 
which is probably why I’m going to be wrong. 
Durant has biases and feelings and emotions and, undoubtedly, like the rest 
of us, worries what other people think of him.
But if he didn’t worry about 
that, and if he didn’t let emotions 
and raw feelings cloud his judge-
ment, and if his No. 1 goal dur-ing free agency is to join a team where he has the best chance to win an NBA Championship, then he should play for Golden State.
Yes, the Warriors may have 
embarrassed the Thunder just a 
few weeks ago, when they came back from a 
3-1 deﬁ  cit in the Western Conference ﬁ  nals to 
send OKC home just as it was peaking.
But if Durant really only cares about win-
ning, then he should join the team that he can’t seem to beat.
Sign a one-year deal with the Warriors, 
set yourself up for a mega contract once the NBA’s salary cap increases after next season and then enjoy a long-term deal next to MVP 
Steph Curry and All-Stars Klay Thompson and 
Draymond Green, accompanied by a handful of shiny new rings. Column: Three observations 
ahead of the NBA oﬀ  season
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19By Ian Cohen and Ethan Bauer
Sports Writers
For almost every Florida sports team, the 
story of the 2015-16 season was high expecta-
tions left unfulﬁ  lled. Multiple teams — includ-ing baseball and softball — were primed to be title contenders only to fall short. This week, 
alligatorSports Editor Ian Cohen and Assistant 
Sports Editor Ethan Bauer debate which 2015-16 Florida team had the most disappointing ﬁ  n-ish to its season. 
Ethan:One team towers over the rest as UF’s most 
disappointing of the season, and that’s the baseball team. 
Going into the College World Series — 
which the Gators entered as the consensus No. 1 seed of the eight teams — UF had won 52 of 66 games. That’s more than any team in the country. 
First baseman Peter Alonso was arguably 
the hottest hitter in the country when the CWS started, going 5-for-11 with three RBIs in the Super Regional series.
And Vegas oddsmakers at SuperBook even 
gave the Gators a 9-to-5 chance of winning it all. 
This was the year. This was the team that 
was going to claim UF’s ﬁ  rst national title in baseball. 
But the lights at TD Ameritrade Park in 
Omaha were too bright for the Gators, who col-lapsed like the Roman Empire. 
The Gators went two-and-out, losing to 
Coastal Carolina, which was making its ﬁ  rst CWS trip, and Texas Tech. 
It’s true that in baseball, success can be 
sliced by a slump at a bad time. The Gators now know that all too well. 
But with the expectations this team carried 
into Omaha, the baseball team’s back-to-back losses at the beginning of the tournament left 
Florida fans collectively deﬂ  ated more than any 
other UF team did. 
Ian:Yeah, the baseball team fell short of expec-
tations. But no Florida team ended the season farther away from its projected ﬁ  nish than soft-ball. 
This was a team that had won two-straight 
national championships only to be embar-
rassingly ousted in two-straight defeats at 
the NCAA Super Regionals. Georgia came to Gainesville and quickly closed the door on Florida’s hunt at history — the Gators were try-ing to become just the second team in Division I softball history to three-peat. 
Instead, the No. 1-ranked team in the coun- Which Florida team had a 
more disappointing ﬁ  nish? 
Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
twitter: @icohenb
SEE RALLY,  PAGE 19
Going for Gold
Caeleb Dressel touches the wall during UF's loss to Auburn 
on Jan. 3 at the O'Connell Center. Dressel advanced to the 100-meter freestyle ﬁ  nal on Wednesday night for a chance to compete in Rio.
Jordan McPherson / AlligatorTHURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
Are the Pelicans wasting An-
thony Davis?
Davis played on the USA Bas-
ketball team before playing a single 
NBA game. He was drafted No. 1 
out of Kentucky and then was im-mediately shipped off to play with the NBA’s elite, where he won a gold medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
Four years later, that has still 
been the biggest highlight of his ca-reer.
Davis has been bogged down by 
a rebuilding New Orleans team, and the 6-foot-10 power forward seemed to cement his future when he signed a ﬁ  ve-year extension with the Peli-cans in 2015.
Since drafting Davis, New Or-
leans has gone a mediocre 136-192, only breaking the 35-win mark once.
But because they have Davis, 
they haven’t been terrible enough to land a high enough draft pick in the NBA Draft lottery, and therefore positioning themselves in basketball purgatory — not quite good enough to win in the playoffs, not quite bad enough to acquire elite talent through the draft.
So, in the meantime, New Or-
leans is stuck, and Davis is stuck. 
He’s just 23 years old and has 
plenty of time left in his career, but the Pelicans’ roster, as currently constructed, doesn’t scream title contender. It barely whispers play-off berth.
New Orleans’ next best player 
is Ryan Anderson, a high-scoring power forward who also happens to be an unrestricted free agent this summer with no guarantee that he’ll stay.
The Pelicans need to get Davis 
help, or they’ll end up wasting his youth and his prime on a team with no chance at a championship.
The Timberwolves, at long 
last, are going to be good
Trading away Kevin Love may 
turn out to be the best decision in Minnesota’s history. 
Among the pieces they got back 
from Cleveland in the trade was No. 1-overall pick Andrew Wiggins, an ultra-athletic 6-foot-8 forward who has almost limitless potential, and 
who is young  enough to be ﬁ  nish-
ing up his ﬁ  nal year in college. 
In 2014 Minnesota drafted Zach 
LaVine, who has since become a two-time NBA Dunk Contest Cham-pion and who is also just 21.
Then came Karl-Anthony Towns, 
whom the T-Wolves took with the ﬁ  rst pick in the 2015 draft, and who 
may have a higher ceiling than Wig-
gins and Lavine combined.
The 6-foot-11 forward/center 
hybrid can dribble, shoot, pass and defend, and did it all on his way to being named 2016 NBA Rookie of The Year.
But that’s not it.Tom Thibodeau — the ex-Chi-
cago coach that led the Bulls to the Eastern Conference ﬁ  nals, who led them to ﬁ  ve playoff appearances in ﬁ  ve years, who was named the 2011 NBA Coach of the Year, and who served as an assistant coach for USA basketball when they took gold at the 2014 FIBA World Cup — was hired as Minnesota’s new coach in 
April.
There are many qualities that 
NBA teams ﬁ  nd appealing about 
Thibodeau, but at the forefront are his player development skills. He coached a young Derrick Rose dur-ing his MVP season in 2011 and honed the defensive skills of both Jimmy Butler and Joakim Noah, 
helping Noah become the 2014 NBA 
Defensive Player of the Year.
Thibodeau couldn’t have found a 
better landing spot than Minnesota.
He’ll be coaching the NBA’s 
best young core, and it isn’t out of the question to expect the Timber-wolves — a team that hasn’t won more than 40 games in 11 seasons 
and hasn’t made the playoffs in 12 
— to make the playoffs in two years, if not next season.
Ian Cohen is the Sports Editor. 
You can contact him at icohen@al-ligator.org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg 18Minnesota could surprise
try failed to reach the College World Series for the ﬁ  rst time since 2012.
And, to top it off, UF had argu-
ably its most talented pitching staff in program history.
Two of Florida’s pitchers ﬁ  nished 
the season with the second- and third-best ERAs in the country, and their third pitcher placed 11th. Soph-omore Aleshia Ocasio was second 
in the nation at 0.77, junior Delanie 
Gourley was third at 0.80 and fresh-
man Kelly Barnhill rounded out the UF’s pen with a 1.36 ERA.
Yeah, Peter Alonso is a good hit-
ter, but no member of UF’s baseball team was as dominant at their re-
spective position as softball’s pitch-
ing staff, which makes UF’s end to its season all the more disappoint-ing.
Ethan:Oh Ian, you colorblind grump. 
That doesn’t prove anything. 
Your reasoning seems to hinge 
on two main points. 
First, softball was disappointing 
because of their status as the No. 1, defending back-to-back national champions, and second, because their pitching was so elite it was thought to be untouchable. So when someone ﬁ  nally did touch it, the let-down was enormous. 
But the baseball team’s pitching 
was just as elite. A.J. Puk — the sixth overall pick in the MLB Draft — was the third-best starter on the team. 
Alex Faedo — the No. 3 starter 
— struck out the third-most batters in the nation. 
And Logan Shore was the South-
eastern Conference Pitcher of the Year and didn’t lose a game the en-tire regular season. 
In short, both pitching staffs were 
elite and both faltered at the worst time possible. They’re equal in that regard. 
Second, you claim that because 
the softball team was so good for so long, the fact that it lost early makes for a massive letdown. I won’t dis-pute that statement’s validity. 
What I will dispute, though, is 
that not winning a third-straight ti-tle is somehow more disappointing than never winning one at all.
Yes, it would be nice to become 
just the second NCAA softball team to ever clinch a three-peat, but hard core UF softball fans have already been spoiled; they’ve been to title town. It’s become normal.
Meanwhile, this wasn’t a normal 
season for UF baseball. It wasn’t merely another shot at the title like it was for softball. 
It was a shot at the ﬁ  rst title ever.Now, all the baseball team is des-
tined for is remembrance as one of the biggest letdowns in recent UF athletics history. 
Ian: Alright, pay attention Ethan, or 
at least focus for as long as those sketchy caffeine pills that you buy from gas stations will allow you to.
It’s not merely disappointing that 
softball didn’t win three-straight 
championships, it’s disappointing 
that they lost so early — in the Super Regionals, in two games to Georgia, a team that had made the Women’s College World Series just twice in program history.
What hurts the most is the fact 
that Florida didn’t even get a chance to defend their titles. In the end, the 
No. 1 team in the country wasn’t 
good enough to get out of their own Super Regional bracket.
The baseball team got to Omaha. 
They got to the College World Series, and although they did lose in two-straight games, it’s not like it hasn’t happened before. In 2012, Florida made it to the CWS, lost twice, and 
was sent home. 
Still don’t believe me?
Take it from the baseball coach 
himself, Kevin O’Sullivan, immedi-ately after his team was eliminated by Texas Tech: 
“I know from some of the ques-
tions that have been asked, ‘you feel like you fell short?’” he said. “To 
look at two games — we lost 2-1 
and 3-2, and to look at those guys in the locker room and think, boy, the season’s been a failure. If getting to Omaha is a failure, then — I don’t look at it that way.”
RALLY,  from pg 18UF baseball has never won a title
The Loser's Circle
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida's 11-0 
win over Alabama State on May 20. Ocasio threw the last pitch of Florida's season, al-lowing a walk-off home run against Georgia. 
Emma Green / Alligator20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 30, 2016
