LEGACYLeaving aSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  65°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights: Villains vs. Heroes
On Friday, GatorNights is bring-
ing you a “super” good time 
with a Villains vs. Heroes night. Test your knowledge and outwit your friends at villain-and-hero-
themed trivia. Outperform your 
peers with an inflatable jousting 
battle and bungee run challenge. Get your own hero or villain swag 
by creating your very own dog-
tag necklace and mask. There will also be an 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. showing of “Suicide Squad.” GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz 
Union. Attendees must be current 
students to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 51
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
auto repair shop
$19.99 Oil Change
10% off Tune Ups, Muffler Repair 
and Catalytic Converter Repair
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858
“Thank you 
Mr. Foley for believing 
in Mi Padre, Mike 
Holloway, to coach the 
Gator Track and Field 
team to 6 National 
Championships!”
- Michele Holloway
Salon Owner
FOR RESERV ATIONS CALL: 352-888-7528 OR TEXT 54499 COLOR | HAIRCUTS | FACIALS | WAXING | MANI & PEDI 
$20 towards your first service
*If you mention this ad. Some conditions apply. Valid for ﬁrst time 
customers only. No cash value. Cannot be combined with any other offers. 
www.edenmichelesalon.com | 1215 NW 14th Avenue
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
A PILOT PROGRAM IS PLANNED 
FOR SPRING 2018.
By Brooke Henderson 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF ofﬁ  cials are proposing a plan to change 
general education requirements starting in 2018. 
 Students in their second year will be limited to 
selecting one of eight three-credit courses in either 
the social sciences or natural sciences category as 
a continuation of What is the Good Life, which is 
already required for freshmen. Students will also have to maintain a journal, possibly on Canvas about their experience in the class.An implementation of the new general educa-
tion plan, UF Quest, is planned for Spring 2018, with a full launch in Fall 2018, according to a re-port authored by Angela Lindner, the UF associate provost for Undergraduate Affairs.
On Friday, a conference in the Reitz Union 
Rion Ballroom at 7:30 a.m. will offer faculty mem-bers and students the opportunity to give input, 
Lindner said. 
UF Quest is proposing “to equip students with 
a meaningful and interconnected series of general 
education experiences that guide them toward ... a better understanding of their place in the greater world,” according to the report.
Clay Hurdle, the chair of the student advisory 
council for Undergraduate Affairs, said the confer-ence is a chance for students to learn about UF Quest. 
“UF Quest will be launching and applied to UF 
students in the Fall of 2018,” Hurdle said, adding that it’s a “big topic.”
Kevin Knudson, the associate chair of the de-
partment of mathematics, said while he thinks a discussion about UF’s general education require-
ments is long overdue, he’s not sure UF Quest will 
beneﬁ  t students. 
“My interactions with students give me an-
ecdotal evidence that the Good Life is vastly unpopular — which the provost’s ofﬁ  ce has ac-knowledged —  so I’m dubious about rolling out additional required courses on the same model,” Knudson said.  UF oﬃ   cials to discuss new plan for general education requirements
WHAT UF QUEST IS PROPOSING 
TO CHANGE FOR 2018: 
Students in their second year will 
select one three-credit course from eight courses in either the social sciences or natural scienc-es category
Requiring students to maintain 
an “e-portfolio” to record “de-scriptions of their transforma-tion in perceptions of themselves and the world throughout each stage of the Core experience”4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
WORKSHOPSRENT 
OUTDOOR GEAR
TRIPSLearn skills like ﬁre starting, knot tying, intro to canoeing, 
contestellation identiﬁcation, map navigation and so much more!Rent high quality camping, backpacking, snorkeling, and paddling gear. 
Explore and experience urban travel, multi-day outdoor and international trips.  Center for Outdoor Recreation & Education
Hours of Operation:
Monday - Sunday 9am - 7pm
1441 Bledsoe Dr, Gainesville, FL
352-294-1040
recsports.uﬂ.edu
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Mark Sandfoss, a 32-year-old UF zoology doctoral student, holds up a 
Florida cottonmouth snake at Seahorse Key, Florida. Sandfoss is researching how the snakes are being affected by the loss of water birds on the island.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Mark Sandfoss, 32, walks up 
and down the shoreline of an un-
inhabited island in the middle of the night looking for venomous snakes.
“Snakes are really cool and 
not dangerous,” he said. “They’re nice.”
In 2013, the UF zoology doc-
toral student began studying the relationship between waterbirds and Florida cottonmouth snakes on Seahorse Key, an island off of Florida’s west coast. But in 
April 2015, when all of the birds 
disappeared, Sandfoss adjusted his study to ﬁ  gure out how the snakes, which depended on the birds for food, would survive. 
“I had to switch a little bit to 
look how the birds leaving affects the snake population, which is ac-tually a much cooler and interest-
ing experiment,” he said. 
With a ﬁ  ve-gallon paint buck-
et and snake hook in hand, he 
captures live snakes he ﬁ  nds on the island and checks to see if they have a microchip. If not, he takes them back to his lab at UF, bringing up to eight cottonmouth snakes with him at a time. 
Sandfoss studies the snakes 
by checking their body condition, checking their water balance and tagging them. 
Through his research, he’s 
found the snakes have become skinnier and smaller since the birds disappeared, with more snakes struggling to survive. He 
said he believes they’re now eat-
ing rats, small lizards and one 
another. 
“Snakes will not go extinct on 
Seahorse,” Sandfoss said. “They’ll 
ﬁ  nd kind of a baseline level and survive.”
Coleman Sheehy III, the pre-
vious director of UF’s Seahorse Key Marine Lab and a member of Sandfoss’ graduate committee, said he’s impressed by Sandfoss’ work ethic. 
“He’s taking good advantage 
of the rare opportunity,” Sheehy said.
Sandfoss said he plans to con-
tinue his research for at least an-other two years.
For the next part of Sandfoss’ 
research, he has to ﬁ  nd a veteri-narian willing to work on snakes to implant a tracking device to monitor their movements.
“Most people don’t like them,” 
he said. “But then when you get into it, snakes are just kind of cra-
zy animals.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  UF graduate student studies an 
island mystery: venomous snakes
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
As punk rock fans piled into Gainesville 
for Fest on Friday, local businesses prepared 
for some of the year’s highest sales numbers.
The annual punk-music festival draws 
thousands every year, and from Friday to 
Sunday about 10,000 people were expected 
to attend, according to its website.
Bands, comedians and even wrestlers en-
tertained crowds at several downtown ven-ues including Bo Diddley Community Plaza, Boca Fiesta, Rockeys Dueling Piano Bar and Loosey’s.
These businesses, and some of those 
within earshot, thrived during the festival — 
a weekend local business owners said they 
look forward to every year. 
For Jacob Ihde, a co-owner of Boca Fiesta, 
sales increased substantially during the fes-tival, although he would not give exact ﬁ  g-ures.
“It’s always our busiest weekend of the 
year,” he said, noting that Fest-goers can be easily spotted by their black attire.
To prepare for the rush, he said the res-
taurant offered specials like beer-and-shot combos, which he said were popular with attendees.Amid a punk-ﬁ  lled downtown, Big Lou’s 
NY Style Pizzeria also ﬁ  lled with customers.
Richard Whitehead, 30, a server who 
worked there Friday and Saturday, said all of the tables were full.
“Everyone was trying to grab a slice, chug 
a beer and leave,” he said. 
He said he received better tips than he had 
in prior Fest weekends, and he noted that 
the festival-goers have been getting “progres-
sively cleaner” over the past several years.
Away from food or drink, Andrew Schaer, 
the owner of Hear Again Music and Movies, said music fans in attendance at Fest trickled into his store to buy vinyl records.
“The crowd that comes here is a pretty 
versatile crowd in terms of what they listen to,” he said. 
Like Whitehead, Schaer said the crowd 
seemed nicer than in years past. He hadn’t heard of any incidents of vandalism, which 
stained previous Fest weekends.
For Loosey’s, a bar that hosted bands like 
BOYS and Iron Chic, the weekend of head-
banging left its mark on Gainesville — and left Loosey’s staff exhausted. At about 1 p.m. Monday, the bar was still nearly packed.
And although a bartender declined to 
comment Monday, a sign outside the build-ing stated the bar would close today, citing a need for “FEST rehabilitation time.” Fest sales boost local businesses  
THE WEEK WILL CONCLUDE WITH 
UF’S “ROCK THE VOTE” CONCERT.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Student Government and local ofﬁ  cials 
made over 700 sandwiches for Gainesville’s homeless residents Monday afternoon. 
The event was the start of SG’s annual 
Civic Engagement Week, said Jason Rich-
ards, the SG external affairs director. The 
week is a way for SG to get students involved with Gainesville’s local government and the upcoming elections.
Students, student senators and city of-
ﬁ  cials including Mayor Lauren Poe stood at 
long tables in the Reitz Union Breezeway, 
making peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches. The sandwiches were sent to Grace Market-place, St. Francis House and Bread of the Mighty Food Bank. 
“It was a perfect way that students can 
learn about the civic engagement part of local government,” Richards said. 
By 5 p.m., the group had made 704 sand-
wiches, Richards said. The event was for stu-dents to meet their local ofﬁ  cials while help-ing the Gainesville community. 
All of the food was donated by the Inter-Residence Hall Association and Earth Fare grocery store, he said. 
Amber Donald, a UF biology freshman, 
said she heard an announcement for the event and wanted to help. 
“I just had the time,” the 18-year-old said. 
“Nothing to lose; it’s helping someone.” 
Poe said the event was a way to get UF 
students involved with the Gainesville com-munity and learn more about local elected ofﬁ  cials.
“They see we’re city residents just like 
them,” he said. “But we’re also not afraid to ask for help and to ask students to get in-volved with the community.”  SG hosts Civic Engagement Week
OTHER EVENTS DURING 
CIVIC ENGAGEMENT WEEK  
Tuesday: Panel on Preeminence and 
State of the Campus Address in the Univer-
sity Auditorium. Doors open at 5:30 p.m., and the event starts at 6 p.m.
Thursday: Civic Engagement Fair at the 
North Lawn entrance to the Reitz Union from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Friday: The All-American Rejects per-
form for a “Rock the Vote” concert on Flavet Field at 7:30 p.m.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
SEASON PREMIERE OCT 4 TUESDAY 8/7C
 ALL NEW TONIGHT 8p
Get more CW at cwgainesville.com
Get news updates, more video and blogs at www .alligator .org
ABOUT 50 STUDENTS 
ATTENDED.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A University of Tennessee 
psychology associate professor 
told UF students Monday that discussions about the LGBTQ+ community should focus on tack-
ling myths about the community. 
On Monday, Patrick R. Grzan-
ka spoke to about 50 students 
about his ongoing study “The ‘Born This Way’ Wars and the Future of Sexual Orientation,” which looks at how society views nonheterosexual communities.
“The ‘Born This Way’ Wars 
reﬂ  ects the diversity in not only the attitudes towards the sexual minorities today, but the various news about what sexual orienta-tion even is,” he said.
Through his research, he 
surveyed college students, both who identify as straight and non-straight, on what they believe 
sexual orientation is, whether 
they believed it can change and if one can deﬁ  ne different sexual orientations.
In his ﬁ  ndings, he discovered 
most people do believe people are born a certain sexuality, but responses varied when it came to deciding if a person can be 
grouped by their sexuality, if they 
can change their sexuality and if one can tell a person’s sexuality without being told. His results show that instead 
of trying to promote a “born this way” mentality, activists for the LGBTQ+ community should focus more on dismantling the stereotypes related to sexual mi-norities in order to create a more inclusive society. 
Some public ﬁ  gures who 
have talked about the LGBTQ+ 
community  believe being homosexual  or queer is a 
choice, while others believe sexuality is bi-
ological, with 
a person be-ing born into a 
sexuality, he said. But he argued that they speak more about how sexual orientation is viewed by the public.  
Staci Ouch, 22, said she at-
tended the talk because she was 
interested in understanding in-
tersectionality and how society views sexual orientation. 
“I think basing human rights 
on the fact that you should treat humans decently because they’re born this way is a good thing to look at,” the UF counseling psy-chology doctoral student said. 
“But also, if sexual orientation 
was a choice, you should still treat human beings decently.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Tennessee professor 
talks sexual orientation 
Grzanka
THE GRANT WILL FUND 
SKIN-REGENERATION 
RESEARCH.
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF researchers recently received 
a grant of nearly half a million dol-
lars in the hopes of ﬁ  nding a way to regenerate tissue to possibly help in-juries.  
The nearly $450,000 grant from 
the National Science Foundation will allow UF professors Malcolm Maden and Chelsey Simmons to study skin regeneration and how it could poten-tially apply to humans for the next three years, said Simmons, the prin-cipal investigator. 
The study is based around the 
African spiny mouse, the ﬁ  rst wild mammal to show the ability to regen-erate tissue after an injury without scarring. Simmons’ team is taking cells from the mouse and studying 
how they respond to tension release, 
or the cells’ reaction when cut.
Maden’s team will analyze the 
cells and conduct their own tests af-ter Simmons’ team experiments with them.
Although research is still in a 
preliminary stage, Simmons and her team are hoping the regeneration helps with burns, heart attacks, spi-nal injuries and more. Because the spiny mouse is a mammal, Simmons wants to see if knowledge of its cells could be used to help humans.
“If we can ﬁ  gure out regeneration, 
we can grow anything back,” Sim-mons said.
Although the researchers have 
been uncovering new information, the process is lengthy, making hu-man application distant, Nicole Ser-rano, the lab manager, said. 
“It’s a super long process,”the 
22-year-old UF graduate said. “It’s not going to move anywhere really fast anytime soon. It’s going to take a long time.” 
Professors receive grant to study skin cells
IT PREMIERES IN MARCH.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three UF alumni are getting paid 
to live out their dreams ﬁ  lming a new digital series for National Geo-graphic.
The series, “Untamed,” is set to 
premier in March on Nat Geo Wild’s YouTube channel. It will feature 10 
ﬁ  ve-minute episodes, capturing the 
trio’s cross-country journey visiting diverse and iconic wildlife in the U.S. 
UF alumnus Filipe DeAndrade 
said the goal of the series is to inspire viewers to appreciate the country’s natural wonders. 
“When you really start to look 
at what we have here in America, it completely rivals anything else in the natural world,” the 30-year-old said. He has traveled to Australia, Africa and New Zealand in the past year. 
DeAndrade, who graduated from 
UF in 2012 with a degree in telecom-munication and a specialization in production, was ﬁ  rst discovered by National Geographic after winning their “Wild to Inspire” short-ﬁ  lm 
competition in 2014.
This summer, DeAndrade, along 
with friends McKenzie Barney and 
Brian Moghari, pitched the idea for “Untamed” at the National Geo-graphic headquarters in Washington, D.C. The series was immediately ap-proved. 
Meghan Cassin, the executive 
producer of “Untamed,” said the se-ries is proof that a career as a Na-tional Geographic ﬁ  lmmaker isn’t an unattainable dream.“Filipe chased his goals and 
landed his dream job as a Nat Geo WILD ﬁ  lmmaker,” Cassin wrote in an email. “Filipe’s infectious enthu-siasm for wildlife is the perfect ﬁ  t for Nat Geo WILD’s digital portfolio.”   
The three ﬁ  lmmakers became 
close friends at UF after constantly seeing each other in Weimer Hall’s 
editing labs. 
“Friday and Saturday nights 
were spent in the lab editing, mak-
ing goofy videos or falling asleep — waking up to a professor coming in at 7 a.m.,” DeAndrade said.
The crew travels by an ambu-
lance-turned-camper, called “Flor-ence the Manbulance, which they 
live out of when they’re on the road. 
“It’s crazy to think that somebody 
is paying us to live our dream,” he 
said. UF alumni to ﬁ  lm series for Nat GeoThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORWe are only as 
strong as our 
weakest link
On Monday, our editorial covered a very touchy topic. 
We decided to evaluate how a beloved TV show, “Bob’s Burgers,” was able to create a genuinely fun-ny autistic character. It ﬂ  irted with notions of come-dic permissibility and how to identify that thin line 
between funny and disrespectful.
But something not so funny surfaced yesterday: Chase 
Coleman is a nearly nonverbal autistic 15-year-old high-school 
freshman from Syracuse, New York. He’s also black. While running in a 5K for his school a few weeks ago, Coleman was 
assaulted by a stranger. He took a wrong turn, got lost and, 
while trying to ﬁ  nd his way back to the race, was pushed to the ground. Witnesses claim an older white male got out of his car, pushed Coleman to the ground and shouted, “Get out of here.” This man was later identiﬁ  ed as Rochester, New York, resident Martin MacDonald. The incident report said MacDon-ald was worried Coleman was “going to mug his wife and take her purse.” When Coleman’s mother initially decided to press charges, her arrest warrant was denied. MacDonald would not 
be charged for second-degree harassment. 
We don’t know where to begin with this story. MacDonald 
had no right to feel threatened in the ﬁ  rst place. He had to get 
out of his car in order to push a nearly nonverbal student in a cross-country uniform to the ground. Not to mention, Cole-man is about half the size of MacDonald. We here at the Al-ligator wonder how this confrontation would have happened had Coleman been a white student, an Asian student or, quite simply, not black. We’re positive this situation would not have 
turned out the way it did.
After the incident, Coleman stopped going to daily practices 
and did not compete in the ﬁ  nal meet of the season. He turned 
in his jersey to his coach, who attempted to get Coleman to change his mind. He declined.
Coleman is a nearly nonverbal autistic student. For him 
to be engaged in a team environment in the ﬁ  rst place was a massive success. But one attack by an aggressive racist on the minor undid all of that progress. Moreover, the fact that there 
wasn’t even an investigation into this case is shameful and 
disgusting. For MacDonald to walk away from this incident without any repercussions is unacceptable. 
Since then, the story has caught wind and been made pub-
lic, and the local authorities have re-submitted a warrant ap-plication for the arrest of MacDonald. Hopefully this time the court will decide to hear the case. But we must ask the court: Is this how we enforce justice? Is this how we treat our citi-zens? If we even decide to move forward as a society, must we 
crawl achingly on, dragging our weight behind us? 
The political movements surrounding black equality in 
America are about more than the fact that more black people 
were killed in 2014 than were killed during the attacks on 9/11. They are about all of the subtle and overt forms of rac-ism our society exhibits. As Gandhi said, “A nation’s greatness is measured by how it treats its weakest members.” We’re not insinuating Coleman was weak. Actually, he’s quite brave. Hopefully we as a nation can encourage him to continue be-
ing brave and reclaim his spot on his cross-country team. Our 
nation is only as strong as our weakest link, and when one of those links is broken, we’re all broken.
Halloween: defying expectations one day a year
For as long as I can remember, I have 
touted October as my favorite month and Halloween as my favorite holiday. 
There wasn’t a deﬁ  ning moment where 
I decided this was the case, yet this fact 
has remained a minor facet of my identity I of-ten analyze around this time of year. Perhaps 
it came about as a result of my adoration for 
vampires, horror ﬁ  lms and sinister folklore, because Halloween allowed my otherwise-bi-zarre fascination to be cool for just one day. Or maybe it was because of my incessant desire 
to subvert the social norms of my suburban South Florida 
environment, as Halloween gave me a parent-approved outlet to do so.
Regardless, I quickly learned that, despite my initial 
belief, loving Halloween did not make me a special spooky snowﬂ  ake. Sitting around my small discussion class last week, my classmates and I somehow managed to divert the conversation from our weekly assigned novel to that of — you guessed it — Halloween. We quickly established 
that Halloween was the preferred holiday for the major-
ity of the class, which is not meant to be a representative sample, considering there are only 12 of us. This then lead us to ask “Why?” in typical English-major fashion.
How did a holiday originating in the Celtic festival 
of Samhain turn into a holiday beloved by children and adults alike? Our professor pointed out the possibility of Halloween acting as an outlet to subvert social conven-tions in a designated space and time frame. She also point-
ed out the links between the beloved holiday and a form of 
writing called carnivalesque. Again, this was in an English class, so bear with me.
According to Oxford Reference, carnivalesque was a 
term coined by Russian literary critic Mikhail Bakhtin to describe “writing that depicts the de-stabilization or rever-sal of power structures, albeit temporarily, as happens in traditional forms of carnival.” However, many critics later claimed that because carnivals are approved methods of transgression, they ulti-
mately offer nothing more than the appearance 
of change.
While we can all agree that Halloween does 
little to undermine the existing power struc-
tures in our lives for the other 364 days of 
the year, it doesn’t make the experience any less exciting. To connect this all back to pop culture, in the immortal words of Cady Heron from the seminal production “Mean Girls,” 
“Halloween is the one night a year when girls can dress like a total slut and no other girls can say anything about it.” To live and frolic for a night without traditional re-strictions is undeniably enticing to the majority of us, and 
while we do subvert those restrictions, this subversion ul-
timately strengthens them. So, feel free to don the bunny ears and corset for a night, but know that, unfortunately, the judgment that accompanies them will be culturally ac-ceptable come morning.
Halloween is not the only carnivalesque experience 
available to the public (cosplay, for example), but it is the only one that’s been absorbed by mainstream culture. The appeal of losing one’s identity to embody a new charac-
ter is undeniable, and this is one of the many fascinating 
elements that endear the holiday to countless people. We are fascinated by the boundless mutability of identity, and having a licensed arena to experiment with it is an entirely unique experience. All of the free candy, cheesy horror 
movies and haunted houses are pretty fun, too.
Hopefully you’ve reveled in my favorite day of the year 
and deﬁ  ed those social conventions with appropriate en-
thusiasm. Unfortunately, today marks our return to the 
real world…but there will always be next year.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Hyped up on sugar and Hallow-
een spirit, Gainesville celebrated a 
night of spooky fun with an array of activities throughout the day.
On UF’s campus, some students 
attended classes in costume. 
Elizabeth Edgerton went to her 
nutrition class dressed in a home-made pepper costume. The 20-year-
old wore all black and taped a white 
“P” on her stomach.
“I couldn’t find a salt,” the UF 
health science sophomore said.
She said her nutrition class of 
about 200 was offered five extra-credit points for dressing up as foods, condiments included.
“Tonight I’m going to The Social 
at Midtown, probably in a different costume though,” Edgerton said. “I honestly woke up and forgot what day it was, but it can still be fun.”
Across town, at A Simply Unfor-
gettable Party Shop, owner Michael Brooks said his store was busier than ever.
“We’re wall-to-wall with custom-
ers right now,” he said.
Brooks said this year the most 
popular costumes have been Har-ley Quinn and the Joker, characters from the movie “Suicide Squad.”
“Beside that, anything devil 
horns or angel wings,” he said.
Monday night, about 500 people 
flooded the Evans Champions Club at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium for the 
third-annual Chomp or Treat, hosted 
by the University Athletic Associa-tion.
Kids — some dressed as bumble-
bees, soldiers and dinosaurs — ate free pizza and Gator-orange cotton candy as they played carnival games.
James Slagle, the UAA director of 
marketing, was dressed as batman. 
He said this is the first year the Hal-
loween event had pre-registration; the last free ticket was reserved two weeks ago.
“It’s grown every year,” Slagle 
said. “It’s just a fun way for us to give back to the Gator Nation and the community.”
Parents chased sugar-high kids 
around as the winners from the 
night’s costume contest were an-
nounced. Of the 150 contestants, there were four winners.
Annistyn Smith, 5, was dressed 
as Nutella in a red shirt bearing the hazelnut spread’s logo and a brown tutu. After winning the “funniest costume” category, Smith said she dressed as Nutella because she loves 
to eat it.
“This is the best Halloween 
ever,” she said.
Her mom, Rita Cook, said she 
found out about the event on Face-
book and decided to bring her kids. 
“The environment is just so much 
fun,” Cook said. “Just the whole en-vironment — the games, the people, 
the security — it’s just the perfect 
thing to bring your kids to. We will definitely be coming back next year.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
Tricks and treats in Gainesville 
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Maisy Smith, 6 months old, sits between pumpkins for her first 
Halloween at the pumpkin patch at Trinity United Methodist Church. The Smith family spent their Halloween at the pumpkin patch taking photos and walking around. 
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Students wait in line to get their outfits judged at Santa Fe College’s Halloween Costume Contest on the Northwest campus on Monday afternoon for Halloween. Brandon Johnson (middle), a 26-year-old Santa Fe criminal justice sophomore, won the costume contest, organized by the college, with his Suge Knight costume.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Sydney Janka wears a strawberry costume at the third-annual Chomp or Treat event held inside the Evans Champions Club at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Monday night for Halloween. The 11-month-old won the Judge’s Choice Award and a $50 gift card at the costume contest presented by the Florida Credit Union. Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Aulani Newton, 3, a first-timer at Chomp or Treat, looks at her reflection in the mirror after having her face painted as a purple butterfly by one of the Easyjourney Entertainment employees inside the Evans Champions Club at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Monday night for Halloween.
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Jackie Dempsey, 21, a Santa Fe College herpetology sophomore, attends Santa Fe’s Halloween Costume Contest dressed up as Artemis, the goddess of the hunt, on Halloween. Dempsey also wore “Honey, ” her carpet python, as part of her costume to “show that snakes are not bad like people think, ” she said.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
ATTENDEES DONATED  
A CANNED FOOD ITEM 
FOR ADMISSION.
By Melanie Mueller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Thousands of candy-craving, 
costume-clad children went trick-
or-treating at the Santa Fe College 
Teaching Zoo on Monday.
At Santa Fe’s 22nd-annual Boo 
at the Zoo, about 6,000 kids and 
their parents walked a mile-long 
trail through the zoo, collecting 
free candy from dressed-up gate-keepers. The trail was transformed into 
14 themed areas, including “Toy Story,” “Jurassic Park,” “Scooby Doo” and “Willy Wonka & the 
Chocolate Factory.”
Dressed as a sorceress, 9-year-
old Lily Ho walked along the trail 
in awe that her favorite fictional characters seemed to be coming 
to life.
“I liked the villains,” the third-
grader said. “I saw Maleficent 
and Ursula. There was also like a 
squirrel monkey.”
The event was conceived by 
students in Santa Fe’s Zoo Ani-
mal Technology Program more than two decades ago as a way to give back to the community. In place of an admission fee, attend-ees were asked to donate a single canned good. The cans collected 
were then given to Gainesville 
Harvest and Catholic Charities, which feed students and families in need, said Jade Salamone, a conservation education specialist 
at Santa Fe.
“We give a magical Hallow-
een experience to kids, and we 
are also helping the community 
by donating canned goods,” Sal-
amone said.
Some of the zoo’s animals — a 
baby box turtle and Asian small-clawed otters among the lot — greeted guests at the event, which also featured performances by Danscompany of Gainesville and a play area sponsored by Fun 4 
Gator Kids.“I love this event,” said Kathy 
Stewart, the founder and owner 
of Fun 4 Gator Kids. “I’ve come every year since my kids were 
little — this is great.”
Santa Fe’s Boo at the Zoo draws crowd of about 6,000
By Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
While much of Gainesville went door-
to-door collecting candy for Halloween on 
Monday night, a group of UF students and residents celebrated Dia de los Muertos in-stead.
Nueva Alianza, a Hispanic religious or-
ganization at UF within Catholic Gators, 
organized the celebration of the Mexican holiday, which started on . It drew about 
60 people to honor their passed-away 
loved ones.
Authentic Mexican food, music and can-
dy-skull face painting greeted the crowd at 
St. Augustine Church near Midtown. 
In the middle of the celebration, a three-
tiered altar — representing heaven, earth and purgatory — was decorated with flow-ers, incense, food and photos of loved 
ones.“We believe that our deceased loved 
ones will come and be in this festivity,” 
said Sister Ana Galvan, a Catholic Gators’ 
campus ministry assistant. “That’s why we 
put food on the altar to invite them.”
She placed a picture of her grandfather 
on the altar to remember him on the holi-
day.
Although she is not Mexican, 23-year-
old Rebeca Siguenza said she would honor 
her late grandmother Monday and today.
“She loved events like this, so I want 
to remember her and celebrate her life,” 
she said.Members of the Nueva Alianza painted 
sugar skulls on people’s faces, designs  
traditionally used to decorate grave  
stones.
Michelle Ordax, Nueva Alianza’s histo-
rian, said the makeup shows the unifica-
tion between all people, because below the 
surface, everyone is a skeleton.
“It brings unity,” the 19-year-old said. 
“It doesn’t discriminate. Everyone is the 
same, and there is no hierarchy, which  
is beautiful and amazing. We are all a fam-ily. We are all the same — from dust to 
ashes.”A hallowed holiday: students, locals celebrate Dia de los Muertos
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Raigen Sumrall, 19, a Santa Fe College zoology student, dresses 
as King Louie from “The Jungle Book” during Santa Fe’s Boo at the Zoo for Halloween on Monday afternoon. According to Santa Fe President Jackson Sasser, Boo at the Zoo happens every year on Halloween and draws about 6,000 attendees .T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Jeremiah Carter, 1, is carried by his dad, Jarrod Carter. Jeremiah was wearing a Dalmatian costume for Halloween at Santa Fe College’s annual Boo at the Zoo on Monday afternoon, which was from 3 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.It means “day of the dead.”2008
 Football wins second 
national title under 
MeyerTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016  ALLIGATOR   11 10   ALLIGATOR TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
by the
NUMBERSFOLEY
Looking back now, several 
weeks later, the conversa-tion still gives Scott McCabe chills. 
He was eating dinner 
across from Jeremy Foley, his best friend of nearly 20 years, and asked Foley to reﬂ  ect on a storied career that comes to an end today.
Jeremy, what’s your favorite 
memory?
“Here’s a guy who’s been argu-
ably one of the most successful ath-letic directors in college sports his-tory,” McCabe said, “and without hesitation, he looked at me, and a little grin came on his face. And he said: the people.”
The coaches, the players, the 
members of his staff, Foley said. Their careers, ones he has watched blossom. Their families, ones Foley has seen grow. And the enormous effect he has had on each of their lives, from hiring them as young, talented employees to watching them become established authori-ties in their respective sports.
“Pretty cool,” McCabe said. 
“Pretty special guy.”
Foley’s success at UF has been 
documented. You can measure most of his accomplishments in numbers — there are the confer-ence titles, the national champion-ships, the winning percentages and the recruiting rankings.
But some of his accomplish-
ments can’t be measured in num-bers: the ones that will impact UF for years to come.
Foley’s career began when 
he was in his early 20s, when he trekked down from New Hamp-shire to Florida and applied to work at UF’s ticket ofﬁ  ce, eventu-ally working his way to the head of the entire University Athletic De-partment.
Now, Foley leaves on top. He 
has taken a school that was barely relevant in its own conference and turned it into a national power-house, hiring most of the people who have turned that dream into a reality.
“The bar’s been set,” he said 
Monday, his ﬁ  nal day in the ofﬁ  ce. “I promise you that’s not where it was 40 years ago, and I’m very blessed to have been a part of that.”
So, as Foley ofﬁ  cially retires to-
day, what will his legacy be?
Take a look.
-Ian Cohen, Sports Editor 
 A Legacy Remembered
National Championships27
SEC Championships130Florida athletics has ranked in the 
nation’s T op-10 every year under Foley10UF became ﬁ  rst program in collegiate history to win football and men’s basketball national championships in the same calendar year (2006)1
The only athletic director in Division I history to win multiple national titles in football and men’s basketball1
UF has won the SEC’s All Sports Trophy 24 of the last 25 years
24
Since 1999, UF has invested $307 million in its athletic departments and facilities, including a $100 million master plan announced in September307Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jeremy Foley watches from behind the end zone during the Florida football team’s 40-14 win over Missouri on Oct. 15. Near the end of each football game, Foley walks down to the ﬁ  eld and stands in front of the ﬁ  eld goal posts. 
1987
 Named UF’s Senior 
Associate Athletics 
Director1980
Named UF’s Assistant Athletics Director 1992
 Named as UF’s 
athletics Director
1996
 Hires men’s 
basketball coach Billy 
Donovan
 Football team wins 
ﬁ  rst national title2004
 Hires Football coach 
Urban Meyer1998
Women’s soccer 
coach Becky Burleigh, 
who Foley hired, 
wins UF soccer’s ﬁ  rst 
national title2006
Football team and 
men’s basketball 
team win national 
championship
2007
Men’s basketball 
repeats as national 
champions Foley signs 11-year 
contract with the 
UAA worth up to 
$1.2 million, making 
him the highest-paid 
athletic director in the 
country at the time.Foley recognized as 
National Football 
Foundation’s National 
Athletic Director of the
Year2014
Softball wins ﬁ  rst 
national title2015
Softball repeats as 
national champs
2016
 Foley retires from UF 
on Nov. 1“At the end of the day, there’s always another 
championship. There’s always another game. But 
your integrity? There’s nothing worth that.”
Jeremy Foley
UF Emeritus Athletics DirectorFlorida’s 14 national titles since the 2009-2010 season is the most in the nation14
“With Gator Nation, he is 
the rock to it. He’s been such 
a wonderful mentor as 
a coach and giving his 
advice and his take 
on something when 
I ask for it. He’s a 
wonderful fan. He’s a 
great supporter. And 
he’s a really, really good 
friend.”
Mary Wise
UF volleyball coachWise
“I told (Foley) when I came 
here, on my interview, I told 
him I was gonna win him a 
national championship. 
And he’s promised me 
he’s gonna be there on 
the 18th green to give 
me a big hug when we 
do win it one day. I’m 
holding him to that.”
J.C. Deacon
Men’s golf coachDeacon
“Even when you couldn’t see 
him and he wasn’t around, he 
was still there and you knew 
it. And he was always 
watching. And he knew 
everybody by name, he 
knew everyone’s sport, 
he knew all of their 
achievements. It was 
just crazy how much he 
actually knew.”
Kahlia Warner
Fomer UF diverWarner
In their words
“My favorite thing about 
Jeremy Foley is that he always 
asks how I’m doing. He 
would remember my 
name and then ask me 
how I was doing. He was 
the AD at a top school 
and he would always 
stop and say hello, ask 
me how things were 
going and always showed 
support for me and my team.”
Aubree Munro
Former UF softball playerMunro
“Foley was one of the main 
reasons I came to UF. You 
can tell he cares about 
his athletes and makes 
it a point to know every 
single one, and that just 
spoke volumes to me. And 
to see him retire on top — 
he’s incredible.”
Bridget Sloan
Former UF gymnastSloan
“What I remember most about 
Jeremy was just how 
genuine he is, and he’s 
never someone that was 
big time. He was never 
someone who was too 
busy. He was just someone 
that was always genuine, 
that was there for all 
the students and he was 
always there for all of us 
athletes.”
Tim T ebow
Former UF quarterbackT ebow
 It began with the Boston Red Sox. 
That was the team New England na-
tive Jeremy Foley wanted to work for, dreaming of the general manager posi-tion. He even spontaneously purchased 
tickets with friends for the team’s fourth game in the 2004 American League Championship Series, vowing to his friends that their pres-ence would change the fate for the eventual World Series champions. 
“We all raised a beer and said right here, 
this moment, right here, right now, we’re go-ing to change the course of Boston sports his-tory,” said Scott McCabe, a longtime friend of Foley’s ever since the two met at Fenway Park, the home of the Red Sox, 20 years ago. “That was one of my favorite Jeremy stories.”
It was even something he brought up with 
former UF men’s basketball coach Billy Dono-van, an equally avid New York Yankees fan, right after Donovan was hired.
“‘Billy, please tell me you’re not a Yan-
kees fan,’” Foley recalled, laughing. “‘If I had known that, I would not have hired you.’”
But instead of the Red Sox, Foley became 
general manager of the Florida Gators, work-ing his way from intern to athletics director. He helped bolster a program he admits wasn’t nationally renowned into arguably one of the most decorated programs in college athletics, and he supported coaches and players through championships, defeats and changes.
McCabe remembers him on a New Hamp-
shire hike years ago, checking his phone to see how the Gators teams were doing and send-ing messages to his coaches. It was typical, he said, for the man who gave so much to the program. 
“He was so incredibly passionate about 
Florida Gators sports,” McCabe said. “And in that role, had the opportunity to inﬂ  uence so many people’s lives.”
Today marks Foley’s ﬁ  rst day of retire-ment from the University Athletic Association, which he described as an emotional start to the next chapter of his game of life.
“I’ve had an unbelievable career here,” he 
said. “I feel blessed.”
•   •   •
Foley ﬁ  rst announced his departure nearly 
ﬁ  ve months ago. 
“It seemed like this day would never 
come,” he said Monday, his ﬁ  nal day in of-ﬁ  ce. June 13, he added, seems like a hundred years ago.
But then it began: the last milestones of a 
40-year tenure with the UAA. It was on his mind standing under the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-dium goal post about two weeks ago, watch-ing the clock tick down at his ﬁ  nal home game as athletics director. This is the last time I’ll stand here, he thought, as he watched the Gators clinch a 40-14 victory against the Mis-souri Tigers.  
“When those things become reality, it’s 
strange,” he said. “It’s emotional because I care. It’s my life’s work.”
He has stood there under the goal posts for 
several years, ﬁ  st pumping and celebrating with the rest of the sideline. Where he’ll stand to watch the games now is part of what Foley called “a great unknown.”
“I haven’t ﬁ  gured that out yet,” he said 
with a laugh. “This is all new to me.”
Some things about Foley’s next chapter are 
a given. He’ll stay on as UF’s emeritus athlet-ics director, helping his successor, Scott Strick-lin, maneuver the program he built. He’ll trav-el, already imagining his ﬁ  rst Christmas at his second home in Vermont. And he will contin-ue to cheer for the Gators. That is a guarantee. 
“You can bet I’ll be watching,” he said. 
“There’s no bigger fan than me.”
-Emily Cochrane, Editor-in-Chief On his last day, Foley reﬂ  ects  TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/
ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus 
rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-
9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-
16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Working stiff
5 Brief timetable9 Racing venue
near Windsor
Castle
14 “Beetle Bailey”
dog
15 Greet from a
distance
16 Waste not
17 Inch or foot18 Actor Bana of
“Closed Circuit”
19 Singer Haggard
20 *Shake off one’s
daydreams
23 Towel holder
24 Strokes on greens
25 Rap fan
27 Little child, in
Cannes
30 Decanter
relatives
33 Richly adorn34 “Born Free”
lioness
37 Carne __:
Mexican dish
38 Old AT&T rival
39 *Cause of
chubby cheeks,perhaps
41 Perp’s prey, in
copspeak
42 French floor44 Like the lama,
but not the llama,in a Nash poem
45 Foot warmer46 Switches for
mood lighting
48 Boardroom
illustrations
50 Farmland
measure
51 Tawdry53 Trojan __55 Leave hurriedly
... and, literally,
what the firstwords of theanswers tostarred clues can
do
60 Joint commonly
sprained
62 __ facto
63 “__ a heart!”
64 Stout mug
65 Property claim
66 Biblical garden
67 __ four: small
cake
68 “A __ of Two
Cities”
69 Bird’s homeDOWN
1 High hair style
2 Active European
volcano
3 Of the ears4 Tablet
5 Sugary brewed
drink
6 K, to a jeweler
7 Lesser of two __8 Metric prefix9 Kid in a military
family
10 Observe
11 *Ingratiate
oneself (with)
12 Norwegian capital
13 Ready to be
kicked off
21 Gallop22 Ltrs. in an unfilled
TV time slot
26 Western treaty
org.
27 Urged (on)
28 Gangster Frank
in “Road toPerdition”
29 *Bargain hunter’s
venue
30 Street eatery
31 Order from on
high
32 Pink-slips35 Debt-heavy corp.
deals36 Word in a
thesaurus: Abbr.
39 Temporary
Oktoberfest
structure
40 “The
Untouchables”gangster
43 Yukon
automaker
45 Drink pourer’s
words
47 Actor Stephen49 Wellness gp.51 Vintage photo
hue
52 Painter’s stand53 Hornet, e.g.54 Poker bet that’s
not optional
56 Highland garb57 Florida’s Miami-
__ County
58 Times to call, in
ads
59 Apartment
payment
61 52, in old Rome
By Janice Luttrell
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/01/1611/01/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 1, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
Love Hiking or Running?P/T position avail- to work with like minded folks.20 hr/wk inc Sat. or Sun. a must. Apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports.1504 NW 13 St. 1 m N of UF    11-2-16-5-14
Looking for a student with strong excel/num -
ber skills, accurate and details oriented to support our digital marketing team. Flexible 
schedules (4/5 hours a week). Join our team! Email resume and cover letter to morandot -
ti@dibari-id.com or call  305 570 9385    11-
7-16-5-14
Office Assistant: One of these passions- FX Show Justified/health & fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, love to read, math interest. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsroth -
stein@gmail.com     11-7-16-5-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/7- 
11/10 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.    11-7-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
The Florida women's basketball 
team is turning to freshman Sydney Searcy and others to make up for lost defensive production, pg 17Florida volleyball player honored
Setter Allie Monserez was named Southeastern Conference setter of the 
week, the league announced Monday. The award was Monserez's fifth of the year and came after she led the team in assists per set for a sixth-straight week. Alligator Staff
After a decorated 24-year tenure as Florida's 
athletics director, Jeremy Foley retires today.  
He employed many coaches during his time as 
head of UF's athletic department, but which hire was his best? Sports writers Ethan Bauer, Jordan McPherson and Patrick Pinak debate.
Ethan Bauer: Urban Meyer, footballThe late 2000s were the roarin’ 20’s of Flor-
ida athletics, and at the center were three men. 
One was Billy Donovan, the men’s bas-
ketball coach who won back-to-back titles in 2006 and 2007. Another was Urban Meyer, the football coach who won a title in his second season at Florida before rattling off another 
one two years later and a Sugar Bowl win the 
year after that. 
And then there was Jeremy Foley, the man 
who hired them both. 
It’s hard to measure the impact these two 
hires had on a school that, at the time, was lag-ging behind both in-state and conference rivals 
in college’s two most popular sports. 
But it isn’t too hard to see which one's im-
pact was larger. 
Urban Meyer made Florida football great 
again, restoring and even elevating the Gators from where Steve Spurrier left them. And while Donovan also won a pair of titles, two things make Meyer superior. 
First, Urban won the title in his second sea-
son. Donovan, meanwhile, took more than 10 years to win his first.
Second, football is just more revered than 
basketball. For a school to be an athletic pow-erhouse, it needs to have a good football pro-gram. 
Just look at schools like Duke and North 
Carolina for proof. They consistently field some of the nation’s best basketball teams, but neither is particularly dominant in football. 
Therefore, when asked to name some of college’s most dominant athletics programs, neither one will come up right away. Which ones will come up right away?
Michigan. Ohio State. Alabama. Texas. 
And, oh yeah, Florida. 
Why? Because these universities have gar-
nered reputations on the football field. 
And even though Meyer left Florida uncer-
emoniously to say the least, the impact he had on the program and on the school by restoring UF’s reputation is undeniable. It’s one that’s still being felt today. And it’s one that, like all the others on this list, can be traced back to Jeremy Foley. 
It just happens to be the most important 
one. 
Jordan McPherson: Billy Donovan, 
men’s basketballBefore Jeremy Foley brought Billy Dono-
van to Gainesville, the UF men’s basketball program was an afterthought to the college basketball world. 
The Gators played 77 seasons of college 
basketball before Billy D took over the pro-gram in 1996. They reached the NCAA tourna-ment just five times and earned just one SEC Who was Jeremy Foley’s best hire during his 24-year tenure?
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jeremy Foley watches from underneath the south goal post at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium during UF's homecoming win over Mis-souri. Foley hired both Urban Meyer and Billy Donovan, who won a combined four national championships.
SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 16
On hiring coaches:
"Coaching searches — I don't care if it's football, baseball, gymnastics, whatever — you've got to get in front of them. You need to find out if they're a fit. Not just can they coach, but if they're a fit for this institution, for this university, for this athletic program. "On UF's softball team winning an NCAA title:
"This team is special. These kids are, that coach is and the way they represent the University of Florida, it's like I said, it's why we do what we do. "On Will Muschamp's firing:
"Our mission statement says 'Championship experience with integrity. ' That is paramount to us as we move forward. The guy you just saw up here, you know, epitomized that right there. His integrity is without question. " JEREMY FOLEY: IN HIS WORDSROUNDTABLE16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
Championship and never eclipsed the 30-win 
mark.
Then Donovan, a 30-year-old with just 
three years of head coaching experience, ar-rived, and what happened over his 19 seasons is history.
Ten SEC Titles (six regular season, four 
tournament), 14 NCAA Tournament berths, 
four trips to the Final Four and back-to-back 
national championships in 2006 and 2007. He 
had a stretch of 16-straight seasons with at 
least 20 wins — including three years where 
UF won more than 30 contests — and became the second-fastest Division I coach to earn 500 
career wins, with 467 of those coming during 
his time at UF.
NBA players such as Al Horford, Joakim 
Noah, Bradley Beal, Corey Brewer and Chan-
dler Parsons, among a slew of others, came 
through the program thanks in large part to 
Billy D. 
Donovan took a program skating by with 
mediocrity and made it a national power-
house. That’s still evident when one walks 
into the basketball practice facility today — a 
year-and-a-half since Donovan left UF to be-
come the head coach of the Oklahoma City 
Thunder.
The foyer of the facility contains all the tro-
phies, all the honors, all the accolades from Donovan’s tenure. They’re a reminder of the 
life he brought to a struggling program. And 
he had the opportunity to do so because Foley 
took a risk.
Patrick Pinak: Rhonda Faehn, gymnas-
tics
This list would be a disservice to Jeremy 
Foley’s career if we didn’t mention his obvious 
best hire: Rhonda Faehn.
Hired in 2003, Faehn put Florida’s gymnas-
tics program on the map during her 13-year 
tenure as the team’s head coach. 
She led the Gators to their first NCAA 
championship in their 43-year history in 2013 and sustained that success by taking home the 
national title in 2014 (along with co-winner 
Oklahoma) and 2015. 
It was Foley who believed in Faehn to trans-
form the program into a national contender when he originally brought her on board.
“Rhonda came in here 13 years ago, shar-
ing our vision that Florida could be a national 
contender,” Foley said in a release last April. “She went to work and made that vision a real-
ity. And in the last three years, she's taken this 
program from nationally prominent to national 
champion. She’s done an absolutely spectacu-
lar job.”
While Faehn resigned from the position 
last year with an all-time record of 347-86-6 to become the senior vice president of USA Gym-
nastics, her legacy still remains. 
Three national championships.Ten top-five NCAA finishes.
Four conference titles. 
What other Foley hire can claim those ac-
colades in a 13-year window? 
The answer is none. 
Honorable Mentions (in alphabetical 
order):
Becky Burleigh, soccer: 19 NCAA Tourna-
ment berths in 21 years, 14 SEC Titles. 1998 
national champions
Mike Holloway, track and field: Six com-
bined NCAA titles, nine combined SEC titles 
Amanda O’Leary, lacrosse: Six NCAA 
Tournament berths in seven years, one Final Four appearance
Kevin O’Sullivan, baseball: Nine consec-
utive NCAA Tournament berths, five College World Series appearances in last seven years
Roland Thornqvist, women’s tennis: 
Three NCAA championships and 11 SEC regu-
lar-season titles in 15 seasons
Gregg Troy, swimming and diving: Three 
combined national championships, only two 
combined non-top-10 finishes in 17 seasons.
Tim Walton, softball: Back-to-back na-
tional championships, seven Women’s College World Series berths in 10 seasons.
Who do you think has been Jeremy Foley’s 
best hire? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.ROUNDTABLE,  from pg. 15Foley hired Donovan, who coached men's basketball for 19 yearsBy Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
After UF Athletics Director Jere-
my Foley was handed the game ball 
following Florida’s homecoming vic-tory on Oct. 15, coach Jim McElwain asked Foley to talk to the team.
It didn’t end well. Foley didn't 
know what to say.
“He kind of stumbled a little bit 
on his last game in The Swamp,” 
McElwain said.
On Saturday, after Florida’s 24-10 
win over Georgia, Foley was given a 
rare second chance.
As he stood in Florida’s locker 
room at EverBank Field, the 63-year-
old athletics director huddled the 
team around him.
He talked to them briefly before 
chanting “Gators Forever.”
“He performed a little bit better 
in the execution part of it,” starting quarterback Luke Del Rio said, “but the enthusiasm was always there.”
Foley, whose final day as UF’s 
AD was Monday, always had a posi-
tive zeal when it came to his Gators. 
For almost 25 years in his position, Foley made it his mission to priori-tize the student-athletes, to make 
them feel at home, to make sure 
they knew they always had a friend 
in him.
“This is what we do,” Foley said during his retirement press confer-ence on June 14. “We bring them here to graduate and compete. And can’t be successful without great student athletes.”
When Foley was named the 
school’s athletic director in 1992, the Gators had won just nine national titles. The common rhetoric among the athletic program was “wait until next year,” “the sleeping giant” and “untapped potential,” among others, Foley said.
A quarter-of-a-century later, UF 
brought home 27 team national ti-tles in 12 sports. The Gators claimed at least one national championship trophy each of the last seven years. Florida finished in the top 10 for the Directors’ Cup every year.
Also, no team was placed under 
NCAA probation during his era.
And in the classroom? UF has 
averaged an 85.2 percent NCAA Graduation Success Rate, which measures the rate of student-athletes who graduate from a university within six years, since the NCAA be-gan keeping track 11 years ago.
“If you fast forward to where we 
are today, again collective effort by so many people and so many coach-es. … we’ve changed the conversa-tion,” Foley said. “It is not ‘wait un-til next year.’ It’s one of the nation’s best athletic programs.”And even with Foley’s time at the 
top reaching its conclusion, the stage he set and the foundation he created is not going to fade into oblivion.
Incoming AD Scott Stricklin will 
take over the program with a top-10 football team, a basketball team with the potential to reach the NCAA Tournament and up to a dozen of its 21 varsity sports on pace to contend for a national title.
“I think the best days in this pro-gram are ahead of us,” Foley said, “and I think you have the right lead-er to take us there.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgFoley leaves athletic department in top shape for Stricklin  
Courtesy of the UAA
Jeremy Foley shakes hands with former Florida basketball coach Billy Donovan, who Foley hired in 1996. Donovan coached at UF until leaving for the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Jeremy Foley, right, and executive associate athletics director for administration Lynda T ealer look on during Scott Stricklin's introductory press conference. Stricklin takes over for Foley today. 
FLORIDA’S LEADING 
THREE-POINT SHOOTER IS 
GONE.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Whenever Carlie Needles pulled 
up from behind the three-point line, 
opposing defenses worried. 
On a Gators basketball team that 
finished 175th nationally in three-point percentage, the guard from 
Highlands Ranch, Colorado, was a genuine long-range threat. She led 
her team both in three-pointers at-
tempted (151) and made (47), plac-ing second in three-point percent-
age (.311) among players who fired 
50 threes or more. 
Shooters like Needles aren’t eas-
ily replaceable. After all, this was a player who, as a high schooler, pushed NBA superstar Carmelo An-
thony to the brink in a three-point 
shooting contest. 
“It’s kind of impossible (when) 
one person leaves or graduates … to insert another person in the perfect mold of what was left,” UF coach 
Amanda Butler said. “What do you 
do?”’
The Gators have relied on their depth to replace Needles, rebuilding 
her strengths by committee. 
After averaging 5.4 minutes per 
game last season — tied for the few-est on the team — junior forward 
Brooke Copeland was pinpointed by Butler to step up as the team’s 
next sniper and is in line for a bump 
in playing time as a result. Eleanna Christinaki, Elif Portakal and Haley 
Lorenzen are also primed to con-
tribute from beyond the arc. 
“I think you’ll see a lot of differ-
ent Gators — when there’s an op-portunity for what we call a ‘good three’ — step up and knock them 
down,” Butler said.
However, good two-way players 
are rare. In addition to her offen-sive abilities, Needles played with 
tenacity on defense. Excelling in full-court, one-on-one defense, she 
finished third on the team with 1.4 
steals per game. 
“Carlie was one of those players, 
and just one of those people, that you wanted to be around,” But-ler said. “She’s not even as tall as 
me, (but) that fighting spirit in that 
package was really an inspiration to her teammates.”
Although she’s gone, that inspi-
ration remains. 
While the coaching staff stresses the importance of defense, one par-
ticular player has caught Butler’s 
eye early on.
Recruited as a scorer, freshman 
guard Sydney Searcy has impressed on the defensive end during scrim-mages. Drawing comparisons to both Needles and the injured Sim-
one Westbrook, Searcy was de-
scribed by Butler as a “force” and figures to carry the mantle in their 
absences. 
“We pride ourselves on being ag-
gressive,” Butler said. “We want to keep our foot on the gas. We want to go until we’re stopped. We want 
to have that fearless spirit that Carlie very much embodied last year.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Becky Burleigh arrived at 
Monday afternoon’s practice 
donning slightly unusual attire: adult-sized giraffe onesie paja-mas.
“I’m a little toasty,” the coach 
said in the 85 degree heat.
It’s a tradition that extends 
back over a decade for the Flor-ida soccer team, with its players and coaches wearing costumes to practice each Halloween.
This year was no different, as 
a Tyrannosaurus rex, a gorilla, a pig, an elephant and even Donald Trump were among the wacky characters that roamed the prac-tice field at Dizney Stadium.
However, Halloween wasn’t 
the only thing the No. 17 Gators (13-4, 8-3 Southeastern Confer-ence) were celebrating on Mon-day, as the Southeastern Confer-ence announced one day prior that five of UF’s players had been named to its all-conference teams.
Seniors Savannah Jordan and 
Meggie Dougherty Howard as well as redshirt junior Gabby Seiler received All-SEC first team honors. Junior Kristen Cardano was selected to the All-SEC sec-ond team, and Julia Lester was picked to the SEC All-Freshman team.
For Jordan, she was placed 
on the All-SEC first team for the fourth-consecutive time, making her the second player in program history to reach that feat along with Abby Wambach. The for-ward’s 34 points and 13 goals were second best in the confer-ence in both categories after the regular season concluded on Thursday.
“It’s pretty cool,” Jordan said. 
“I always say that it’s a big hon-or to be in the same category as those types of players, especially Abby Wambach. So it’s a great honor, and I’m really happy to have achieved that this year again.”Dougherty Howard was giv-
en All-SEC honors for the sec-ond year in a row after she was 
named to the conference’s sec-
ond team in 2015. The midfielder 
started every match this fall and 
had a final statline of six goals and 19 points, both collegiate 
highs.
Seiler also made an all-con-
ference team for the second 
time in her career. After trans-
ferring to UF from Georgia in 
2015, she played multiple posi-
tions and started every match 
in her first season as a Gator. 
Seiler converted from midfielder 
to defender halfway through the 
year and played a big role in the 
seven shutout victories her team 
notched this fall.
While the SEC honored only 
five of Florida’s players this weekend, Burleigh was quick to 
point out that those personal ac-
colades couldn’t have been ob-
tained without help from the rest 
of their teammates.
“You can’t get people recog-
nized without being a good team, 
so I look at those as really team 
awards,” Burleigh said. “Every-
body really contributes to that 
even though individuals get rec-
ognized.”
Postseason play begins on 
Wednesday for UF when it faces Missouri in the quarterfinals of 
the SEC Tournament. The Gators 
have won three of the past six 
conference tournaments.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida soccer team celebrates Halloween, SEC awards
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan (left) and Meggie Dougherty Howard (right) participate in drills during the soccer 
team’s practice on Monday. Many players showed up to practice in Halloween costumes.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brooke Copeland, 23, defends an inbound pass during Florida’s 71-61 loss to Georgia on Jan. 14 in the O’Connell Center. Coach Amanda Butler said Copeland could receive more playing time this season.
Three players were named to the All-SEC first team
UF women’s basketball relying on depth to replace lost talent18   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Tight end C’yontai Lewis runs after a catch during Florida’s 24-10 win over Georgia on Saturday. Lewis caught his ﬁ  rst touchdown pass of the season during the game. 
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
WEDNESDAY: 
• Soccer vs. Missouri in Orange Beach, Alabama, 8:30 p.m., SEC 
Network 
• Volleyball @ Georgia, 9 p.m., ESPNU
THURSDAY: 
• Women’s swimming and diving @ Arkansas, 7 p.m.
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 1
• Women’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 1
FRIDAY: 
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 2
• Men’s tennis @ Dick Vitale Invitational, Day 1
• Men’s tennis @ SEC Classic, Day 1
• Women’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 2
• Women’s tennis @ Dick Vitale Invitational, Day 1
SATURDAY: 
• Football @ Arkansas, 3:30 p.m., CBS
• Men’s and women’s swimming and diving @ T exas A&M, 2 p.m.
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 3
• Men’s tennis @ Dick Vitale Invitational, Day 2
• Men’s tennis @ SEC Classic, Day 2
• Women’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 3
• Women’s tennis @ Dick Vitale Invitational, Day 2
SUNDAY: 
• Volleyball @ Mississippi State, 1 p.m., SEC Network+
• Men’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 4
• Men’s tennis @ Dick Vitale Invitational, Day 3
• Men’s tennis @ SEC Classic, Day 3
• Men’s tennis @ Knoxville Challenger, Qualifying Day 1
• Women’s tennis @ USTA/ITA National Indoor Championships, Day 4
• Women’s tennis @ Dick Vitale Invitational, Day 320   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2016
