We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 162 THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
Alligator Awards
Who was UF’s best male athlete of 
2015-16?, pg. 18Pride Community Center hosts forum
GPD police ofﬁ  cers spoke with the LGBTQ+ community, pg. 4
UF’s Creative B summer program events
It runs through Aug. 5, pg. 8Connect with us 
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer
Cox Communications customers in 
Florida were left without internet or phone 
services after a tree-trimming accident late Wednesday morning in Ocala, said Cam Johnson, Cox’s public affairs manager.  
“An unfortunate accident,” Johnson said. 
“We are not sure if someone hit the line or if a tree fell; we don’t have the exact report 
on it.”
All services were restored at about 3:30 
p.m, he said.
Cox provides services for Florida custom-
ers in North Central Florida and the Gulf 
Coast area. The outage affected all Florida 
customers, he said.
Some local businesses in Gainesville had 
to ﬁ  nd ways to work without internet or phone services.
Signs placed on registers in Lucky’s Mar-
ket notiﬁ  ed customers the store was only 
able to accept credit card and cash pay-
ments. No debit or food assistance payment programs could be used.
Burger restaurant Relish attempted to 
work around the outage.
“It really wasn’t that bad,” said Carina 
Martinez, a 22-year-old Relish crew member and UF alumna. “We can process orders of-ﬂ  ine; it just took a lot longer to process the credit card numbers, but we were still able to do it.” 
Some students and faculty were forced to 
use UF’s on-campus Wi-Fi to meet deadlines. 
“It was a pain in the butt,” said Stephen 
Craig, a UF political science professor. “I had work to do that required access to the inter-net, and I couldn’t do it.” 
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.org Tree trimming in Ocala causes internet outage 
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Bernie Sanders ended his cam-
paign Tuesday when he ofﬁ  cially 
endorsed Hillary Clinton at a cam-
paigning event in New Hampshire.
Matt Zwerling, a 21-year-old 
environmental economics senior, said he helped found Progressive Gators last year and often had to 
explain who Bernie Sanders was.
“I always thought, ‘Yeah right, 
like someone who calls himself a democratic socialist could ever get 
anywhere in American politics,’” he said. “The fact that now we 
have the ability to be angry that 
it was such a close battle is such a victory.”
Zwerling said Sanders gained 
a majority of his support from people in the 18-35 age range, and 
that he hopes momentum from 
the campaign and Sanders’ plat-form will have a positive effect on 
local elections.
Khari Ollivierre, a 22-year-old 
computer science senior and an ambassador with Students for 
Trump, said though Clinton sup-porters may be excited about the 
endorsement, they don’t realize 
some former Sanders supporters are becoming angry and starting 
to leave their party.
He said the campaigns of Sand-
ers and Donald Trump shared several policy ideas, including the 
candidates’ ideas on trade agree-ment.
“Hopefully they’ll realize that 
Trump really is someone that wants what’s best for the Ameri-
can people,” he said. “Just like 
Bernie Sanders.”  
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org Students weigh in on 
Sanders’ endorsement 
CRIME
HE WAS ORIGINALL Y ARRESTED 
ON CHARGES OF STALKING 
AND RESISTING ARREST.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
An assistant professor with the UF College 
of Pharmacy was released from jail Tuesday 
after he was once again arrested when a judge said he violated a restraining order from his previous arrest.
University Police originally arrested Vishal 
Lamba on charges of stalking and resisting ar-rest June 14. He was released from the Alach-ua County jail on a $5,000 bond the next day, 
according to Alligator archives. 
On July 1, the State of Florida ﬁ  led a motion 
to revoke Lamba’s bond after he sent an email 
from his university account to the woman he was accused of stalking, according to Alachua County court records.
After a hearing July 7, 
the court revoked Lamba’s bond and ordered he be placed back in jail, accord-ing to the records. 
His defense ﬁ  led a mo-
tion the next day to recon-sider the decision, arguing that someone had request-
ed a copy of Lamba’s email conversations with the woman, and he mistakenly clicked “reply all” and sent the email to the woman, accord-ing to the records.
The court instead raised Lamba’s bond to 
$10,000 and required him to wear a GPS moni-toring device after his release.
Lamba was released from jail Tuesday 
night on the $10,000 bond. 
@saradmarino 
smarino@alligator.org UF professor released after violating restraining orderZachariah Chou / Alligator 
SG WEEKL Y UPDATE
UF Student Senate held its weekly meeting Tuesday in which Budget and Appropriations Chairman 
Charlie Brown addressed the recent shootings across the country. For more on Senate funding and the executive branch’s campus initiatives, see page 5. 
It afected Cox Communications customers
Lamba
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  93° LOW  72°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
GatorNights: DC Heroes
GatorNights will host a DC 
Heroes themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. and will collaborate with the Hispanic 
Student Association to bring you “Pa la Calle," a block party in 
Metropolis including a DJ, food and dancing! Show us your speed or strategy on the North Lawn at Capture the Green Lantern, a su-
perhero spin on Capture the Flag. 
Bring a team and face off at in-door laser tag, and show off your strength on an inflatable bungee run. You can fly by and watch “Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice” in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium at 8 p.m. and 10:45 
p.m. Midnight Munchies for this 
week will be pizza. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current 
students to participate and can 
bring a maximum of one guest to the event. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 162
THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Take The Day
to DISCO VER…
Stay 
connected.
PLAZA     NO RTH    TOWN CENTE RBy Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
Starbucks customers may have to pay a 
little more during their next visit.
The price of certain drinks increased 
Tuesday, Starbucks spokesperson Gaby, who 
declined to give her last name, wrote in an email. 
“Depending on the market, customers 
will experience increases of 10 to 20 cents 
on select sizes of brewed coffee to have, and 
10 to 30 cents on espresso beverages and tea 
lattes,” she wrote.
Prices vary depending on each product 
and the area it’s sold in, and 65 percent of 
drink prices have not changed, Gaby wrote. 
McLaine Pleasants, a 20-year-old UF psy-
chology and Spanish senior, said she became 
a Starbucks customer with the order of a de-caf Frappuccino when she was a little girl. 
Pleasants said she believes the changes 
are not enough to make a big difference.
“I would be concerned if the price in-
creased by a few dollars, but that isn’t the 
case,” she said.
Starting Oct. 3, Starbucks will also in-
crease the wages of all U.S. employees, 
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz announced 
Monday.
“Striking the delicate balance between 
profit and a social conscience is a responsi-
bility I take personally,” he wrote.
As for the price changes, Pleasants said 
she still plans on buying her favorite green tea latte.
“I’m still going to go to Starbucks,” she 
said. “I love the drinks too much not to go.”
mandrade@alligator.orgStarbucks increases wages, 
several beverage prices
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Stacey Steinberg, a UF law professor, is a 
former child abuse attorney who advocates for 
kids by photographing children with traumatic 
medical conditions. 
Kathy Liu makes paper cranes to fundraise 
for childhood cancer research through her or-
ganization, Joey’s Wings Foundation, named 
for her 10-year-old son who passed away from 
kidney cancer in 2014.
Joyce Pearson takes hand portraits to cap-
ture photos in hospice that do not leave fami-lies with memories of their loved ones in pain.
The three artists will have a panel discus-
sion Saturday at 3 p.m. about their display, 
“Shared Hope-Art and Healing,” in the Chan-
dler Auditorium at the Samuel P. Harn Mu-
seum of Art.  Steinberg said by capturing children’s 
beauty and strength, she hopes they will see 
they went through a challenge while still being able to smile, laugh and be themselves. 
“It’s been an experience that centers me 
and takes me back to what’s important in life: love, health and hope,” she said.
Two thousand of Liu’s cranes are on dis-
play to represent how many kids die from 
childhood cancer in the U.S. each year.
“Sometimes when you see a number you 
forget,” she said, “but when you see so many 
cranes together, it’s very powerful.” 
Pearson, who started the Hands Legacy 
Project, said hands are “the way a person de-livers their talents to the world.” 
Hands don’t show pain like faces do, she 
said.
“It’s a legacy piece that reminds the family 
of that life well lived,” she said.Artists to host panel on 
health, art and hope4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida Department of Health 
reminded residents to take precau-
tions after a new Zika-related case 
was reported earlier this week in Ala-
chua County. 
“To date, there have been no lo-
cally acquired cases of Zika virus, and all cases have been travel-related, meaning the person acquired the vi-
rus overseas,” said Mara Gambineri, 
the communications director for Flor-
ida Department of Health.
Residents should still take precau-
tions to prevent any mosquito-borne illnesses, Gambineri said. 
Residents should cover their skin 
and use mosquito repellent when they are outdoors during the day and 
night, she said. 
Gambineri said it is critical that 
residents drain all sources of stand-
ing water around their homes, such as bird baths, flower pots or buckets. 
The smallest amount of water can be 
the perfect breeding zone for mosqui-
tos, she said. 
According to a press release, of the 233 cases in Florida, only five came from Alachua County. This data 
ranks the county one of the lowest in 
the state in terms of reported cases.
Broward County has had 40 re-
ported cases. Miami-Dade County has had 74, making it the county with the 
most reported Zika cases. 
According to the release, the big-
gest concern regarding the Zika virus is pregnant women, and 43 pregnant 
women in Florida have been moni-
tored. 
The Florida Department of Health 
advises pregnant women not to travel to areas where Zika is common, ac-
cording to the release.
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.orgFlorida Department of Health offers precautions for Zika
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
In an effort to communicate with 
Gainesville’s LGBTQ+ and minority 
communities, Gainesville Police of-ficers held an open discussion at the Pride Community Center this week. 
GPD’s new contacts for the LG-
BTQ+ community — Lt. Jaime Kur-
nick, the wife of University Police 
Chief Linda Stump-Kurnick; Officer 
Michael Cavett, who is also openly gay; and Officer Donna Montague — greeted the crowd of nearly 20 resi-dents Monday. 
“I know a lot of officers in a lot of 
other communities do not have that same kind of feeling and are in the 
closet,” she said. 
Kurnick said GPD wants officers 
to help at peaceful protests and keep 
attendees safe. 
Capt. Jorge Campos said anyone 
with a concealed carry permit who 
wishes to bring their gun to a protest 
should let officers know beforehand. 
Chief Tony Jones said GPD hopes 
to give all officers Mental Health First Aid training or Crisis Intervention Team training in the future. 
He said GPD has no tolerance for 
hate crimes, and he encouraged the community to call 352-955-1818 if 
residents don’t need immediate help. 
He said self-evaluations, in which 
GPD looks for patterns in its arrest 
numbers, help GPD find potential problems, as does a group of resi-dents who help review GPD and its 
hiring practices. 
Terry Fleming and Linda Bassh-
am, the co-presidents of the Pride Community Center, said the Orlando 
shooting inspired them to hold the discussion. 
Fleming asked Capt. Campos 
what officers do when they pull over a transgender person whose driver’s 
license does not match their gender 
identity. 
Campos said in the past, he pulled 
over India Brooks, a Santa Fe College graduate, performer, former Miss Gay Orlando recipient and transgender 
person who worked at University 
Club in the ’90s, according to Alliga-
tor archives. 
Though he was initially confused 
by her license, Campos said it didn’t change how he treated Brooks.
“That was probably one of my 
first experiences with a transgen-
dered person, but I can tell you that 
in police academy there’s no lesson 
on how to deal with that,” he said.
Campos said he believes police de-
partments could use more training on how to deal with similar situations.
“The closer we are to the com-
munity, the better off we’ll all be,” Lt. Kurnick said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgPride Community Center, GPD host open discussionTHURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Brianna Ellis
Alligator Contributing Writer
This year, Money magazine 
ranked UF No. 15 on its list of “Mon-
ey’s Best Colleges,” up from No. 30 in 2015, according to a UF News re-lease.
UF is now the highest-ranked 
Florida university on the list, and it has risen from No. 8 to No. 6 on the magazine’s list “The 50 Best Public Colleges.”
In Florida, Florida State Univer-
sity ranked 197, the University of South Florida came in at 356 and the University of Central Florida held its own at 408. Rankings were based on affordability, student success and quality of education.
“In part, it’s a result of Money 
magazine making minor adjustments to the various metric weighting schemes and can attribute to large changes in rankings,” UF spokesman Steve Orlando said. “For example, debt was 30 percent last year, and 
now it’s 40 percent with some sub-
weights. But UF is also being noticed 
more and more widely nationwide 
every year in similar rankings, so it seems momentum is building.”
According to its website, Money 
magazine consulted experts on edu-
cation and finance to analyze more 
than 700 colleges nationwide.
“Money uses sound methodology 
and relies on other reputable sources 
to create its rankings,” Orlando said.
The jump in ranking has left 
some students feeling optimistic.
“I think it’s great that our college 
was ranked so high, and I feel like this reflects the quality of the edu-
cation that we receive,” said Kaitlin 
Daly, a 19-year-old UF animal sci-
ence sophomore. “I hope we’ll rise 
even higher in the future.”UF jumps in rankings 
based on affordability 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
During Tuesday’s Senate meet-
ing, Budget and Appropriations 
Chairman Charlie Brown addressed 
the recent shootings of both black males and Dallas police officers.
“My name is Charlie Brown,” 
he said. “I’m a black male and an American.”
Brown said he remembers be-
ing 13 years old and living with his brother, who had a warrant for his 
arrest.
He said five officers showed 
up to arrest his brother, then beat 
him in the front yard as his mother 
screamed and cried.
His uncles held Brown down 
and told him not to help, Brown 
said. “‘Charlie, they will kill you,’” 
he said. “This is the reality for a lot of Americans.”
Brown said he wants the best 
for the U.S., and he believes you 
can support both the black com-munity and police. He also said 
Americans should consider the di-
versity of perspective.
“The perspective at the top of 
the skyscraper is much different 
from those who are still climbing 
the stairs because the elevator has been taken away from them,” he 
said.
During first reading, the Insti-
tute of Hispanic-Latino Cultures, a graduate Hispanic appreciation or-
ganization, received about $1,550.
The Funding for Hispanic Stu-
dent Association: LOGRAS Bill passed unanimously after a differ-ent bill for its funding was struck 
last week.
Senate Allocations Chairman 
Austin Champoux said the organi-
zation would benefit more by be-ing funded under the Hispanic Stu-dent Association umbrella.
The Senate also unanimously 
passed the Funding for First Gen-eration Organization Bill, giving about $960 to the group for first-generation students.
During the public debate earlier 
in the meeting, Audrey Guerra, a 21-year-old UF political science senior, said she was concerned 
that Student Body President Susan 
Webster’s initiatives did not in-clude online voting at the previous 
meeting.
“I’m here to express my hopes 
that the Senate does not ignore this issue; there are plenty of constitu-
ents who have deemed this issue 
super important,” she said.
For the executive branch report, 
Ty Robare announced plans to of-
fer price matching and a  discount 
on textbooks at the UF Bookstore 
on the first day of school.
The branch is also working on 
replacing the campus’ older charg-ing stations and creating a “Poke-mon Go” event.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgSenate discusses police brutality, 
funding and online votingThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
What story do NBA contracts tell children?
We are about to hit the apex of the 
Summer semester. That means a lot of studying and stress the further we dwell into July. Of course, for any males in decent shape and more than 
6 feet tall, there is a tempting alternative to com-pete with countless of hours of studying. They could drop their books right now, head to the gym and start practicing their jump shots. The NBA is calling their names.
Adults view their childhood fantasies of be-
coming professional athletes as nothing more than that: fantasies. However, for children, their dreams of one day becoming superstars are alive and well. Kids play simply because they want to play. Adults, too, could play basketball to their heart’s content, but other factors come into play. A big factor is the fact that one with mediocre talent cannot make money playing basketball. At least that was the thought process a decade ago, but the game at the professional level has changed.
It would be one thing if NBA players made the insane 
amount of money they do because they are the best athletes in the world and fans demand their sport more than any other, but that’s far from the reality. Not only is basketball not the most popular sport globally, it isn’t even the most popular sport in the U.S. The NFL racks in more money and fans than the NBA, yet NFL stars make half of what NBA players make. NBA free agency began two weeks ago, and the contracts signed so far reveal the association heading in the wrong direction. 
Most of the contracts are noticeable not because of the 
players’ talent, but the lack thereof. Matthew Dellavedo-va, a player who played sparingly in the 2016 NBA Finals, signed a 4-year, $38.4 million contract. Tyler Johnson, a third-string guard for the Miami Heat, will go from mak-ing half of a million dollars last year to $12.5 million next year. These players are subpar, at best, though they will earn more money than stars of other professional sports.
The mentality for children to play basketball 
was different back in the 1990s: “Be Like Mike.” It wasn’t for his money but to play the game itself. Michael Jordan is arguably the greatest basketball player of all time. According to Ro-land Lazenby, the author of “Michael Jordan: The Life,” Michael Jordan earned a $4 million salary in his 1994-95 season with the Chicago Bulls. Then again, the average annual salary for a player this past season was about $4 million. A 
handful of second-tier players – Damian Lillard, Marc Ga-sol, Jimmy Butler – have contracts that will earn them more money in a ﬁ  ve-year span than Michael Jordan made in 16 NBA seasons.
NBA teams have the revenue and salary caps to sign 
million-dollar contracts at a level that would’ve been im-possible a couple of years ago. Fans are in awe to watch players like LeBron James and Stephen Curry play because it seems impossible that a human could do such things. However, paying subpar players superstar money may give children the wrong idea.
The debate over the strange salary distributions be-
tween professional male athletes and occupations that ac-tually matter is not new, but the obscene NBA contracts this month is the breaking point. Yes, in moderation, kids playing sports, both boys and girls, builds diligence, dedica-tion and patience to the goals children pursue in the future when their lives progress beyond a ﬁ  eld or court. 
Eventually, like those older, children will learn that they 
all aren’t cut out to become the next LeBron James. But the next Matthew Dellavedova? Such ludicrous NBA contracts for the backup’s backup will make it tougher for kids to put down the ball and pursue more meaningful purposes.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.“Most people think/Great God will come from the skies/Take 
away everything/And make everybody feel high. But if you know what life is worth/You will look for yours on earth: And now you 
see the light/You stand up for your rights. Jah!” — To quote the 
late great former singer of “The Whalers” and beloved symbol of weed and reggae himself. There’s a lot of wrong in these times 
we live in. Our country needs healing — and not the kind where 
we stop at hoping and praying for the best. Far too long we’ve 
been complacent in the red. Now, in the spirit of completely 
abrupt and random transitions…
Darts & Laurels
Evan Scribner claimed in his interview with The New York 
Post that his love life was ruined by “Pokemon Go.” Thanks to the geolocation feature of “Pokemon Go,” which records the re-al-life locations where players capture their Pokemon, Scribner’s partner discovered that Scribner spent time playing the game while at an ex’s house. Now, Scribner claims he’s single because of the game.
Let’s keep it real; if you spend your time hiding from your cur-
rent partner at your ex’s house while reliving your video game nerdgasm fantasies from the ’90s, it’s not really the video game that ruined your life, Evan. In fact, it’s up for debate whether you had a life to begin with.
We give a dart to this kid for being indisputably basic by 
blaming his problems on everything but himself. He should 
try auditioning for Fox News. “Pokemon Go: Entertainment? Or the Japanese’s secret ploy to brainwash millennials and kill U.S. job growth? Up next on the ‘We’re-Going-to-Spin-Everything Zone.’”
Now, for some major non-Pokemon news from this week: 
Bernie Sanders’ endorsement of Hillary Clinton. Is he a sellout? Did he take this long to endorse her because he was more con-cerned with his ego than unifying the party? Many such ques-tions are ﬂ  ying wildly about the interwebs. Many of these con-clusions are wild overgeneralizations or misinterpretations of reality — a dart to the haters for all the hating before debat-ing and instigating what’s propagating. Anyway…
Many of you already have your own opinions developed 
about our country’s bird-herding, hand-waving, clean-shaven Gandalf, and it’s not like anything in this editorial would really change your mind at this point. All we can discuss is what’s true. This is not Bernie’s capitulation, nor is it his end. Since day one, he’s argued that his campaign was not about an election, but a revolution. And, now, regardless of who wins — Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump, Gary Johnson, Jill Stein… a giant meteor (poll-ing at 13 percent compared to the major nominees) — Bernie’s revolution is coming.
We’re going to see it across congressional, state and local bal-
lots, we’ll see it in the 2020 election, we’ll see it in the revitaliza-tion of grassroots organizing and we’ll see it in the empowered voices of the people who are tired of partisan politics and feel enough is enough. Buckle your seatbelts.
However, even the most ardent Bernie supporters can’t deny 
the comedic gold here. Sanders endorsing Clinton? Next, we’re going to see Coke endorsing Pepsi; Yoda endorsing Darth Vader; Ron Swanson endorsing Franklin Delano Roosevelt; Florida Gov. Rick Scott endorsing Lord Voldemort: Actually, they’re the same person, so that last example doesn’t really apply.
Anyway, aside from sticking to the political ﬁ  ght against all 
odds, we also want to give a laurel to Bernie for the roasting 
opportunity he just provided — as well as the genuine laughs and political hope he’s given so many and will continue to give. The American people will never be able to hear the word “huge” in the same way.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Joshua 
Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
“Swiss Army Man” is a multipur-
pose movie, meaning some-
thing different to each viewer. 
To me, it was a message about not wasting your life by living 
in fear. To my mom, it was a message about the importance of speaking up. And to my 
dad, it was a suggestion to let out his farts 
more frequently.  
But in all seriousness, the most ﬂ  atulent 
ﬁ  lm I’ve ever seen said the most about what it means to be human: to err, to have ﬂ  aws 
and to love.
The main character, Hank (Paul Dano), 
is about to hang himself on a deserted is-land when he sees a corpse (Dan-
iel Radcliffe), wash up on shore. 
To begin the series of comedic 
pitfalls that Hank encounters, he accidentally steps off his hanging cooler in his excitement, chok-ing himself before his makeshift 
noose breaks. Slowly, while ﬂ  atu-
lating constantly, the corpse be-gins to show signs of life. Hank is forced to re-evaluate what is important in life as he reteaches a horny 
Swiss Army Man — as Radcliffe’s character 
Manny is called for his versatility as a com-pass, axe and ﬂ  amethrower — how to truly be alive. 
Unbridled in its farts and erec-
tions, “Swiss Army Man” cannot be described as a crude movie because every toot and image of poop that makes its viewers feel uncomfortable is a message about 
how every human is connected. 
The main characters’ discussion of everyone’s poop blending to-gether when they die is not such 
an appalling notion after hearing dozens 
rip for an hour and a half. Challenging the 
conventions of what we consider normal and acceptable, Manny says whatever is on his mind and repeats Hank’s words back to him, which makes them seem much more 
crazy coming from someone who has no 
recollection of the world he used to live in. 
If you’re in need of a feel-good comedy, 
I cannot assure you that this is your best choice, with the ﬁ  lm’s emphasis on heavy 
topics about lost loves, being labeled weird 
and dying. But if you need a ﬁ  lm that will be real, that won’t hide its ﬂ  aws or its farts, then “Swiss Army Man” can deﬁ  nitely do the job.
Emma Green is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Thursdays.THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Emma Green
opinions@alligator.orgToot thumbs up for a flatulent film about what it means to be humanBy Rachel Donohue
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can get in touch with their creative 
sides this Summer by attending one of the many 
events sponsored by UF’s Creative B program.
Creative B, started and funded in 2010 by 
the Ofﬁ  ce of the Provost, is meant to promote 
student involvement over the Summer semes-
ter, said Allison Alsup, the public relations and partnerships specialist for the College of the Arts.
“It’s a way of welcoming the new students 
to campus with arts and creative activities,” she said. “We have campus-wide participation in our events, so it’s a program that showcases many of the different areas of our school.”
The program also offers classes students can 
take over Summer B, including creating mobile games and digital entertainment trends.
While most of the activities change from year 
to year, there are some consistencies through-out the events, Alsup said. The School of The-atre + Dance puts on a performance each year, and it is usually one of the most popular events, she said.
“Sketchy People,” a play following a sketch 
comedy group that reunites for one last show, 
will have its ﬁ  rst performance today at 7:30 
p.m., and shows will continue through Sunday.
The Florida Museum of Natural History is 
one of Creative B’s partners.
Elizabeth Brown, the marketing and public 
relations assistant for the museum, said the Murder Mystery at the Museum event is quickly gaining popularity among students.
“This is an event that will engage them and 
have them exploring the museum in a different way than they are used to,” she said.
A list of full events is available at bit.
ly/29Dupgv. 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
 Creative B oﬀ  ers a variety of 
events through Aug. 5
By Johana Wiznitzer
Alligator Contributing Writer
An algal bloom in South Florida has 
come to the attention of Gainesville 
artists.
The toxic algae infestation has led 
the Gainesville Arts Market to host a Toxic Florida Exhibit this Saturday. The free event will be held at SoMa Art 
Media Hub, located at 601 S. Main St. 
Txong Moua, the director of 
Gainesville Art Scene and the creator of 
the Gainesville Arts Market, said after recent environmental events, art is a 
great way to get the word out. 
People are encouraged to bring up to 
two pieces or submit their pieces ahead 
of time, Moua said. This is the ﬁ  rst 
exhibit that allows guests to bring their 
own work, she said.
Local photographer Lynne Buchanan said she hopes to bring attention to the Florida environment, speciﬁ  cally water.
“In my lifetime, my generation has 
really killed the water,” Buchanan said. “I feel bad for my children and grandchildren, (We are) ruining an ecosystem, and we are part of the 
solution ... I feel that people are 
emotionally impacted by photos.”
The bloom impacts the health 
of humans and animals, as well as 
businesses and tourism because people 
are scared to go in water infested with the algae, said Afsar Ali, a research associate professor at UF.
“Water is becoming the single most 
critical resource, and it will deﬁ  ne the next century and how it impacts us,” said Gustav Paulay, the curator of invertebrates at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History. “It’s the wake-up call 
of our time.”  Toxic algae bloom sparks 
environmental art
When
• Aug. 3 at 7 p.m.
Cost
• $7.50 for students
• $15 for general public
How
• Register onlineMURDER MYSTERY AT THE MUSEUMART CAMPUSKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Q&A: Ken Peng of “Ken Eats Gainesville”
The Avenue talks must-eat local places, pg. 13By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
Gainesville’s Hippodrome 
State Theatre will celebrate Pride 
Night and raise funds for victims of the Pulse Orlando shooting 
with its show Friday. 
In a partnership with the Pride Community Center of North Cen-
tral Florida, the Hippodrome will 
donate $10 of every ticket sold to 
its 8 p.m. showing of “The Tox-ic Avenger” to the OneOrlando fund. The donations will go to support the victims of the Pulse 
shooting and their families.  
After the performance, attend-ees are invited to a free karaoke 
night in the Hippodrome base-
ment, led by DJ Jarad Bowens 
from Genius Entertainment. The karaoke event will last from 8 p.m. to midnight, and drink spe-cials will be available throughout 
the night at the Hipp Bar. 
The Hippodrome’s current mainstage show, “The Toxic 
Avenger,” has been extended un-
til July 31 because of its popular-
ity after opening in late May. 
The musical comedy takes 
place in a toxic waste dump in New Jersey and tells the love sto-
ry of a blind librarian and a man 
thrown into the toxic waste who becomes the Toxic Avenger. The show premiered in New York in 
2009 and has been replicated all 
across the country. 
Tickets are on sale for $25 and 
can be purchased at the Hippo-drome Box Ofﬁ  ce, by telephone 
at 352-375-4477 or online at the-
hipp.org. 
Bluegrass band to make stop in Gainesville
The band will perform this Saturday downtown, pg. 11Courtesy to the Alligator
On Friday night, the Hippodrome will celebrate pride and honor the Pulse shooting victims. For every $25 ticket, $10 will be donated to the OneOrlando fund.
Courtesy to the Alligator
“The T oxic Avenger” is currently playing at the Hippodrome and has been extended to July 31 after opening in late May.
 Hippodrome’s Friday show to beneﬁ  t Orlando 
LOCAL
TICKET
 INFORMATION
Price: $25
Reedemable at:
 Hippodrome Box 
Ofﬁ  ce
By telephone:
352-375-4477
Online:
the-hipp.orgBy Chase Granger
Avenue Writer
The Florida Sea Grant College 
Program and Beneath the Waves 
will host an ocean-themed ﬁ  lm 
festival at the Reitz Union on Sat-
urday.
“Living on the Edge: Striking 
a Balance between the Economy 
and the Environment” will consist 
of three ﬁ  lms focusing on issues facing Florida’s coast. Doors open at 5:30 p.m. for refreshments and mingling. Film screenings will be-
gin at 6:30 p.m. 
The event is free, family-
friendly and open to the public. 
Faculty members from UF and 
Stetson University will provide 
commentary and answer audi-ence questions after each ﬁ  lm presentation.
According to its website, 
“Florida Sea Grant is a university-based program that supports re-search, education and extension to conserve coastal resources and 
enhance economic opportunities 
for the people of Florida.”
“We fund a lot of researches 
at universities across the state, as well as provide scholarships for 
students to conduct their own re-
search,” said Rebecca Burton, the communications coordinator for Florida Sea Grant.
Burton, 26, had the idea last 
year to start what she called “sci-ence cafés,” where local scientists would address a topic and answer audience questions. Last year’s 
café was held at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company. 
“We received a lot of positive 
feedback last year,” Burton said. 
“We wanted to add ﬁ  lm into the 
mix to make it more entertain-ing.”
Florida Sea Grant wanted 
the ﬁ  lms to revolve around the 
theme of balancing the economy 
with the environment. Accord-ing to Burton, Beneath the Waves worked with Florida Sea Grant to 
suggest ﬁ  lms that matched this 
theme. 
Ed Pritchard, the executive 
director of Beneath the Waves, said the company is a global non-
proﬁ  t ocean conservation organi-
zation that focuses on research, outreach and education. 
“Film festivals are the plat-
form for our outreach efforts,” Pritchard said. “We solicit ﬁ  lms from all over the world, amateur to professional, on all different ocean topics.” 
According to Pritchard, Be-neath the Waves averages three ﬁ  lm festivals a year and has reached audiences in 15 different 
countries since 2009. 
The ﬁ  nal ﬁ  lm at the UF festi-
val, entitled “The Global Connec-
tion: Little Island, Big Fish,” is 
the pilot episode of Beneath the 
Waves’ in-house ﬁ  lm series. The ﬁ  lm was directed by Sami Kattan, a UF graduate and director of dig-ital media for Beneath the Waves. 
“The point of this series is to 
highlight localized issues and how ways to solve these prob-lems can be applied globally,” Pritchard said. 
Kattan’s ﬁ  lm focuses on whale 
sharks and how tourism affects 
their living environment. It fea-
tures research that Beneath the Waves is currently conducting in Mexico. 
“It’s important for students 
and people in the Gainesville community to come to this event and understand that even though they are not in direct contact with the ocean every day, there are still things they do in their daily lives that affect the oceans,” 
Pritchard said. 
The open discussion after the 
ﬁ  lms will be highly beneﬁ  cial 
toward gaining a better under-
standing of how local issues can 
be applied globally, he  said.
“We want people to know that 
no matter where you are, you can still have a positive impact on 
ocean protection,” Pritchard said. 10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Florida Sea Grant and Beneath the Waves will host an ocean-themed ﬁ  lm festival at the Reitz 
Union on Saturday.
 UF to host ﬁ  lm festival about environmental issues
CAMPUSCLAIRE L YNCH HAS TWICE 
BEEN NOMINATED 
FOR A GRAMMY.
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
A Grammy-nominated singer 
makes a stop in Gainesville this 
weekend as part of her 2016 tour. 
Claire Lynch Band, helmed 
by award-winning vocalist Claire Lynch, will perform at the Historic 
Thomas Center on Friday for an evening of bluegrass. 
Lynch has twice been nomi-
nated for a Grammy, according to the band’s press release, and has 
long been considered a pioneer for women in the bluegrass genre. She 
burst onto the scene in the 1970s, 
and in the ’80s and ’90s she led the 
Front Porch String Band to become one of the most iconic bluegrass 
bands playing the circuit. 
In 2005, she formed the Claire 
Lynch band with Mark Schatz, Jar-rod Walker and Bryan McDowell, 
and she has since won the Inter-national Bluegrass Music Associa-
tion’s Female Vocalist of the Year 
award three times. 
“For years, Lynch has delighted 
audiences and enjoyed reverent standing ovations for her shows at prestigious music festivals and 
theaters around the world,” said 
Jazz Godard, the publicist for the band. “She has crafted one of the most instantly identiﬁ  able sounds in acoustic music, encompassing 
classic bluegrass and thoughtful 
infusions of contemporary folk, country, rock and swing.” 
Lynch has released 13 albums 
and is currently at work on her 14th, according to the press re-
lease. She has worked with huge 
names like Dolly Parton, Patty Loveless and Pam Tillis during her 
time in the industry. 
Friday’s show at the Historic 
Thomas Center, located at 302 NE Sixth Ave., will kick off the Florida 
leg of the tour, which will also in-clude shows in Winter Garden and 
Sarasota. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. 
for the 7:30 p.m. show, and tickets are $20 at the door. THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.Courtesy to the Alligator
The Claire Lynch Band, formed in 2005, is currently on tour 
and will kick off its Florida leg in Gainesville on Friday.
 Bluegrass band makes GNV stop
MUSIC12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
THE THREE-DAY BLOCK 
PARTY IS FREE AND 
BEGINS ON FRIDAY.
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
The Atlantic and the Top 
are revving up their engines 
for a three-day-long block 
party starting this Friday.
What’s the best part of a 
three-day-long block party? 
It’s free! The Top and the At-
lantic dub this their anniver-
sary blowout for 2016. On so-cial media, the Atlantic said, “We have one hell of a week coming up!”
That week consists of live 
bands, DJ’s, giveaways and thumpin’ good rowdy fun at the Atlantic, the Top and the 
Wooly. 
On Friday night, there will 
be simultaneous events at the 
Atlantic and at the Top. Doors at the Atlantic open at 8 p.m. 
for a six-band show, and the 
Top will have DJs spinning tunes from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
The Wooly will host a free 
block party loaded with local acts, including Danny Pynes, 
Ghost Fields and a Talking 
Heads cover band Saturday. Closing down the party will be the Ordinary Boys 
— a Morrissey & The 
Smiths tribute band. 
Vocalist A.J. 
Navarrete, who started the 
band in 2010, 
said he’s excit-ed to be back in Gainesville for 
the party. 
“The appreciation 
we have for this town, 
and its people is through the roof,” Navarrete said.
The Ordinary Boys, the 
only tried and true tribute to Morrissey & The Smiths, will perform at the Wooly at 12:20 
a.m. as the final act of the 
evening. “We’re more than excited 
and overwhelmed with ela-tion for this show,” Navarrete said.
Outside of the 
block party, Sat-
urday will 
also feature 
an “all-out dance 
party” at 
both the Atlantic  
and Ar-
cade Bar, ac-
cording to the 
event’s Facebook 
page. 
Sunday will wind out the 
anniversary party event, with brunch at the Top from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and another night of performances at the 
Atlantic, with doors opening 
at 8 p.m.
The party kicks off on Fri-
day at 8 p.m. at the Atlantic. With over 450 people interest-
ed and 300 people confirmed 
on Facebook, the 2016 block party will have Gainesville in recovery for days to come. Downtown venues to host 
anniversary block party  
LOCAL
“The appreciation we 
have for this town 
and its people is 
through the roof.”
A.J. Navarrete
vocalist for Ordinary BoysBy Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Over the last three years, “Ken Eats 
Gainesville” has become the go-to blog in 
town for local food reviews and information. Ken Peng launched the site with a Facebook page, now with more than 17,000 likes, and 
still uses the social media page heavily. I sat 
down with Peng to talk food, the site and the must-eat places for Gainesville newcomers. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did you come up 
with the idea for “Ken Eats Gainesville”?
Ken Peng: It was serendipitous I suppose. 
At the time, I was in between jobs and always had the idea of a food website in the back of my head. A friend of mine urged me to go 
through with it, and here we are. The name 
itself actually had its origins in the Alligator, way back in the summer of 2005, when I an-swered an ad looking for contributors. I wrote small blurbs about local restaurants for the Avenue for just that semester. So it had toiled in the back of my head all the way until 2013.
KC: Your day job is working in ﬁ  nance, 
how does that compare to running the food 
blog?
KP: It doesn’t. And I like that. The blog 
serves as a break, stress-relief, escape, what-
ever you want to call it. I think anyone that works in a corporate environment can under-stand what I’m getting at. But I will say that in my marketing director role, I do get to ﬂ  ex some creative muscle. At the end of the day, it’s still a business, and I can’t get away with 
expressing myself the way I do on KEG. I’d 
deﬁ  nitely get ﬁ  red.
KC: How many years have you been do-
ing this/how many restaurants have you re-viewed?
KP: I’ve been doing this since 2013, and I’ve written 50 restaurant reviews. Of course, that’s not counting best-of lists, news and res-taurant announcements. 
KC: What do you think it is about your site 
that makes it so popular? 
KP: I think that up until the time that I 
launched it, there weren’t many local web-sites that focused on local restaurants … at least not well-organized or accessible ones. I actually decided that a Facebook page was the best platform to launch the site; it wasn’t until some time later that a stand-alone website was 
built. But I try to keep it honest, and I think the 
audience sees that. It’s very transparent when reviews or articles are paid-for. I wouldn’t feel very good about myself if I did that, and read-ers would immediately scoff. So I respect that trust that the readers have with my words. 
KC:  What are your top three favorite local 
restaurants?
KP: Crane Ramen, Sabore, Dragonﬂ  y. This 
is actually a tough one to answer. I’d say The Top, 706, Root & Pecker and Bangkok Square are right up there too.
KC: What’s one place that freshmen have 
to check out as soon as they get to Gainesville?
KP: The Top is your quintessential 
Gainesville restaurant; I think they do a great job of encapsulating what Gainesville is all about. Dragonﬂ  y seems to be a favor-
ite amongst all college kids. Satchel’s is prob-
ably the popular answer here, but I just don’t care for their food ... ask any locals and they’ll say, “The pizzas are meh, but the salads are great!” Oh and you can sit in a van; I guess that’s cool.
KC: What do you think about Gainesville’s 
food scene overall?
KP: It has come a long long way, especially 
from the sadness it was 12 years ago when I ﬁ  rst moved here. We’re starting to see some specialty places pop up that do one thing, and one thing very well (i.e. Crane Ramen, 
Maple Street Biscuit Company). I also think 
we’re starting to see more chefs who care about their craft and where their ingredients are sourced. But yet, there’s still a lot of room for improvement. There’s a lot of growth hap-pening around town, a lot of really passionate people who are working on projects, and both residents and college students alike are more now more interested in food than ever before. 
So … we’ll get there.
To learn more about Peng and read his 
reviews of Gainesville’s most popular eating 
destinations, check out his Facebook page “Ken Eats Gainesville.” 
Know of any local writers, artists or musi-
cians I should check out? Send Kirsten a mes-sage at kchuba@alligator.org.  THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Courtesy to the Alligator
Ken Peng created the food blog “Ken Eats Gainesville” in 2013. He has written 
50 food reviews and frequently breaks news about local restaurants on his page.
 The Avenue talks to Ken Peng of ‘Ken Eats Gainesville’
Q&A14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Need some activities to keep you 
busy this weekend? From drinks and 
ice cream to music and Pokemon, the Avenue has you covered. 
Friday, July 15
Drink for the Global Good at 
OAK: Gainesville’s Original Ameri-can Kitchen, or OAK, located at 15 SE 
First Ave., will host a fundraiser Fri-
day in conjunction with UF graduate Yunfai Ng for her mission to create a 
mobile health education program in rural India. Drink specials will be $5 and include wine, Bud Light, Miller 
Lite and single liquor call drinks. All 
proceeds will go to benefit the cause. 
“Pokemon Go” at the Florida 
Museum: From 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 
p.m. Friday, the Florida Museum 
of Natural History will host a free 
“Pokemon Go” event. According to 
the Facebook page, visitors are in-
vited to stock up at the Florida Mu-seum PokeStop, battle for control 
of the Museum Fries Pokemon gym and participate in a scavenger hunt 
with prizes. Lures will also be placed 
every 30 minutes. The event is free, and Wi-Fi is available. Saturday, July 16
Gainesville Arts Market: This 
month’s Gainesville Arts Market is  
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m at 
601 S. Main St. There will be a spe-cial feature section for Toxic Florida: 
An Environmental Arts Movement 
and Call for Artists, where visitors 
can submit their own “toxic art.” 
Check out the work of local artisans and enjoy wandering through down-
town. 
Band Roulette: It’s that time 
once again, when The Backyard at Boca Fiesta, located at 232 SE First St., hosts its Band Roulette session. For those who have never been, 
five weeks ago, names were put in 
jars (one each for singers, guitar-ists, bassists and drummers), and 
by choosing one name out of each jar, makeshift bands were formed. 
Over the last few weeks, the bands 
have rehearsed and will perform in a 
Battle of the Bands at The Backyard. 
The showcase is at 10 p.m. with a $3 cover. 
Sunday, July 17
Free Ice Cream at Cold Stone: 
Both of Gainesville’s Cold Stone Creamery locations will hold a Free Ice Cream Day on Sunday from noon to 11 p.m. in honor of National Ice 
Cream Day. Visitors can get a free 
fun size and topping at either 3822 W. Newberry Road or 3443 SW Ar-
cher Road when they download the Gift Certificates & More app for free 
and create an account.
Crazy Flavor Night: Also in honor 
of National Ice Cream Day, Sweet 
Dreams of Gainesville will replace its usual flavors with 35 of its most 
unique options. The store, located at 3437 W. University Ave., will release 
the flavors on Facebook the morning 
of the event, which will run from 1 p.m. to 10 p.m.Event roundup: things to do in Gainesville this weekendBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-21-16-10-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
Grad looking for male roommate postdoc, grad or mature undergrad. 2/2 apt, close to UF, avail Aug 1st, $350/mo + 1/2 util, con-tact Larry 443-939-6198. Located country village apt 2700 SW Archer Rd, Gainesville, FL     7-21-16-7-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
Luxury Apt: 1BR/1BA.
Granite counter tops, cable, washer, & drier
included.Close to Archer Rd, UF main
campus & Shands w/3 bus routes.
4076971571 or glorisapt.gville@gmail.com
7-26-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
ONLINE AUCTION W/ BID CENTEROlde Beau Golf & Country ClubRoaring Gap, North CarolinaGolf Course, Lots, Land &amp; HousesBegins Closing 8/4/16Selling Regardless of Price at End of Auctionironhorseauction.com 800.997.2248 NCAL3936      7-14-1-5
Pristine Lake Front Liquidation!Saturday July 30 th3 Acres and 513 Feet of Shoreline $29,900Don’t Miss Out!Call TODAY for Your Preview Showing1-888- 270-4695     7-14-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     7-14-16-7-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     7-14-1-12
DONATE YOUR CARFOR BREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556     7-14-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191      7-14-16-7-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
F/T receptionist for busy law firm. Communication, attention to detail, and multi-tasking skills a must. Previous experi -
ence a plus. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com      7-14-16-6-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.     7-19-16-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
1. MONEY: What is the building 
depicted on the back of a $20 bill?
2. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
yards are in a fathom?
3. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the fear 
represented by pyrophobia?
4. TELEVISION: Who voiced the 
role of Charlie on the original “Char -
lie’s Angels” TV series?
5. U.S. STATES: Which three state 
capitals have the least number of let-
ters in their names?
6. LANGUAGE: What are gauchos?7. FIRSTS: Who was the first wom-
an to receive the Distinguished Flying Cross?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: In 
superstitious beliefs, how many years of bad luck allegedly come from breaking a mirror?
9. MATH: What is a 20-sided shape 
called?
10. AWARDS: What is the award 
given each year to major-league base-ball’s most outstanding pitchers in the American and National Leagues?
Answers
1. The White House2. Two (six feet)3. Fear of fire4. John Forsythe5. Salem, Oregon; Dover, Delaware; 
Boise, Idaho (five letters)
6. South American cowboys
7. Amelia Earhart
8. Seven9. An icosagon10. Cy Young award
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 11, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
Part time cleaner needed for 
home,apartments, and office cleanings m-fri 8-5, wed 8a-10p and sat 8a-3p. Must be a fast, energetic cleaner in good shape to per-form any cleaning task with no limits. Must own a reliable car and be willing to service Gainesville, Jonesville, williston, and mor-riston. Must past a background/drug test. Paying $8.50/hr and weekly pay ..If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868     7-26-5-14
Gator Dining is Hiring!Attending Job Fairs on July 14th & July 20th Please apply atwww.gatordining.com/employmentto participate. Make sure to select a ‘Higher Education’ position.    7-19-16-3-14
$ Seasonal PT Position $Football Game Day ParkingMust work a minimum of 2shifts every home gameContact: scoc-hire@ufl.edu       7-21-16-4-14
UF Survey Research Center 
$9.50 - $10 per hour +
bimonthly bonus + Paid Training
No Sales
*Spanish speakers needed
Find us on Gator Jobs! 
http://jobs.ufl.edu
7-26-16-4-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE       7-14-1-14Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers!Grads work with Airlines, Airports and OthersGET CERTIFIED in just 12 weeks with FAA approved trainingCall AIM 888-242- 2649      7-14-1-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963     7-14-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429     7-14-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Your input matters!Help UF plan community outreach event 5 min research survey http://bit.ly/1YuT2SB Questions? (352)273-3690      7-19-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305     7-14-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099     7-14-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142     7-14-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
ACROSS
1 UV filter once
widely used in
sunscreens
5 Word in Italian
dishes
9 Italian for “wasp”
14 Lifetimes
15 Sign on for more
service
16 One-__ chance17 Music in 62-
Across
19 Swedish-born
Chan actor
20 Cunning21 River through
Kazakhstan
23 Dating letters24 Fisherman’s knot26 They may be
independent
28 Race town near
Windsor Castle
30 People never
seen in
“Peanuts”
32 Word with smoke
or kisses
33 Arthurian
address
34 Very old thing38 Sylvan sticker
39 Performer in 62-
Across
41 Thurman of
“Henry & June”
42 More than just
suggest
44 Salyut successor
45 Snead has won
three of them,briefly
46 Existing: Lat.48 Work with a
team
49 Misconception
52 Brown shade
54 Brown address
ending
55 Bausch’s partner
57 Opens up
60 Cover story62 Fighting venues
suggested by thispuzzle’s circles
64 Levels, in Leeds65 Comic strip
canine
66 Mind, with “for”67 College near
Albany
68 D-Day craft69 What it’s risky to
build on?DOWN
1 Haydn sobriquet
2 Food thickener
3 Visual media
soundtrack
Grammy Award
4 Presently5 Winning, with “on”6 Med. nation7 Doozie8 Brief summary9 Crook, e.g.
10 Phot. lab request
11 They may be
taken on“Jeopardy!”
12 British coin
additive?
13 Chilean range
18 Number for two22 Highly in favor of25 Metz milk27 Letters with
Arizona orMissouri
28 Short for short?29 Swing around
31 “Wee” pours of
Scotch
33 Mariners’ home,
familiarly
35 Pea variety
36 Apple variety37 Hit violently, as
waves againstthe shore39 Oscar-winning
song
immortalized 
by Nat King Cole
40 “Mon __!”43 About .62 mi.45 Discourse on
verses
47 $, for one48 Many a trucker49 Causes of
trembles50 Dwight’s two-time
opponent
51 First two-time
Best Actress
Oscar winner
Rainer
53 Lille lasses: Abbr.56 Pals58 Folklore fiend59 Wee part of a min.61 Big __
63 Brightened, with
“up”
By Matt Skoczen©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/14/1607/14/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 14, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida to take over SEC Network for a day
As part of the SEC Network's second-annual SEC Network T akeover, each SEC school will have a full 24 hours over a two-week span to control the network's programming. UF's day is July 25. Poll Results: UF's best female athlete of 2015-16
 Bridget Sloan: 40%                          Rhamat Alhassan: 20%   
 Nicole Graziano: 20%                    Eleanna Christinaki: 20%Staff Report
In this edition of the Alligator 
Awards, we debate which male ath-
lete was the best of the 2015-16 sea-son. Sports writers Ray Boone, Matt Brannon and Alejandro López join 
alligatorSports Editors Ian Cohen and 
Ethan Bauer in a roundtable discus-sion to debate the ﬁ  ve nominees. De-bates will go in alphabetical order by the writer’s last name.
Bauer: Grier kickstarted dor-
mant Florida offense
Yes, he’s arguably Florida foot-
ball’s biggest disappointment of the last decade because of his untimely suspension and subsequent transfer. 
And yes, the fact that those things 
happened tarnished his reputation at 
UF beyond repair. 
But think back to before the sus-
pension, when the Gators mounted 
their now-legendary comeback against Tennessee, their 28-point shellacking of No. 3 Ole Miss the next week and their vengeance win over Missouri the week after that.
Now think back to those games 
and imagine if Treon Harris had been under center. 
Yeah. Not so good. After Grier’s suspension, the Gators lost their next game, a 28-35 thriller in Baton Rouge. They won their next game in convincing fash-ion over Georgia 27-3, but after that, 
things went south. 
Florida limped to wins against 
Vanderbilt, South Carolina and Flor-
ida Atlantic by a combined 18 points before three consecutive losses to ﬁ  n-ish the season. 
The team deteriorated without 
Grier at quarterback. 
Some might say that with or with-
out Grier, the results would have been the same. 
The fact remains that as UF’s start-
er, Grier went 6-0 with a blowout of the nation’s No. 3 team. 
The other games were closer than 
fans were comfortable with, but Grier seemed to have the “it” factor and pulled the Gators out of funks late in games. What made Grier special wasn't his physicality of arm strength, but his poise and conﬁ  dence. Exactly what Harris lacked. 
Think about this: Grier was the 
ﬁ  rst quarterback since Tim Tebow — that’s six years — who provided the Gators with some semblance of a threatening passing game. 
And because he was able to do 
something that eluded his predeces-sors for so long, he’s deserving of be-ing named UF’s best male athlete — 
screw up or not. 
Boone: Dressel sets new bench-
mark for Florida swimming
Florida swimmer Caeleb Dressel 
was outstanding all season long for 
the Gators.
Going into the NCAA Champion-
ships in March, the 14-time All-Amer-ican had already won three individual titles at the Southeastern Conference 
Championship meet. 
To cap off the year, Dressel won 
the NCAA Championship in the 50-
yard freestyle and 100-yard freestyle with times of 18.20 and 40.46, re-spectively, smashing the previous UF, American, NCAA and U.S. Open records. 
In addition, Dressel was named 
the 2016 SEC Male Swimmer of the Year and earned First-Team All-SEC honors. But his most notable accolade came as a result of his performance 
at the NCAAs. Dressel was named 
NCAA Co-Swimmer of the Year.
And he’s not done.The 19-year-old from Green Cove 
Springs will have his ﬁ  rst shot at an Olympic medal, as he is set to com-pete for Team USA in the 100-meter freestyle and 4x100 free relay in Rio.
The rest of the world should be 
scared when the Gators’ best male athlete takes his talents abroad. 
Brannon: Baseball team owes 
its offense to Alonso
In a year where no basketball or 
football players separated themselves as a cut above the rest, the Florida baseball team's offense revolved around one ﬁ  rst baseman.
No Gator performed at a higher 
level in 2016 than Florida’s premier slugger, Peter Alonso. 
The man took a upper-90s fastball 
to his hand and hit two home runs in his ﬁ  rst game back from injury. He hit a ninth-inning two-run homer in the Gators’ last College World Series game to put them within one run. 
It’s not just that Alonso leads 
Florida in nearly every offensive cat-egory — it’s that he leads them each 
by ridiculous margins. The junior 
ﬁ  nished with a .374 batting average while the next best Gator hit .305. He hit 14 home runs while the next Gator hit nine. No one got near his .469 on base percentage, and he topped the SEC with a .659 slugging percentage. 
Alonso’s play even tightened un-
der the bright postseason lights. 
After returning from a fractured 
hand, Alonso carried the Gators through the NCAA Regionals and Super Regionals. In six games, the ﬁ  rst baseman hit .520 with four home runs, four doubles and 11 RBIs before UF was upset by Coastal Carolina in the College World Series. 
Alonso’s season was an offensive 
overture making music to scouts’ ears. But don’t take it from me, take it from the New York Mets, who se-
lected the slugger in the second round 
of the MLB Draft. 
Cohen: Amid change, Finney-
Smith carried UF basketball 
Of all the changes within the 
men’s basketball program last sea-son, one thing remained constant THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Caeleb Dressel dives at the start of his heat in the men's 50-meter freestyle preliminaries at the U.S. 
Olympic swimming trials on July 1 in Omaha, Nebraska.
 Alligator Awards: Who was Florida's best male athlete?
Dressel, Alonso among the nominees
SWEET AND BAUER
Since Butch Jones took over as coach of the Tennessee football team in 2013, the Volunteers have constantly been dubbed the spring 
Southeastern Conference East Divi-sion champions. 
The Vols are always the sexy 
pick to make the title game, and when the voting of media members at SEC Media Days is released later this week, it’s likely that Tennessee will be the favorite to win the divi-sion. 
But since I wasn't there to vote, 
here are my SEC East predictions:
1. Tennessee 
Last season’s record: 9-4, 5-3 
SEC
Key players: QB Joshua 
Dobbs, HB Jalen Hurd, DE Derek Barnett
Analysis: I know, they’re al-ways the preseason champs. I can hear people scofﬁ  ng and muttering under their breath even while I’m writing this. 
But it really is now or never for 
Tennessee. 
Josh Dobbs, the Vols’ star quar-
terback, is a senior. Jalen Hurd, the 6-foot-4, 240-pound bruiser of a run-ning back could also depart for the NFL, as could defensive playmaker Derek Barnett. 
For now though, all three remain 
intact along with above-average players at other positions. All the pieces are there for the Vols, and this year, they’ll (ﬁ  nally) put them together. (Also, if Tennessee col-lapses, I swear I'll never pick them 
again.)
Prediction: 10-2, 6-2 SEC
2. Florida
Last season’s record: 10-4, 7-1 
SEC
Key players: QB Luke Del Rio, 
 Any Volunteers? Tennessee may top SEC East rankingsSEE AWARDS,  PAGE 19
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriTHURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
WR Antonio Callaway, K Eddy Pi-
neiro 
Analysis: Last season’s SEC East 
champions should be better than a year ago, and they’ll certainly be in the mix to go to Atlanta. Luke Del Rio, Florida’s de facto starting quar-terback, looked like a sure-fire up-grade over Treon Harris in the Spring 
game. The losses of receiver Demar-
cus Robinson and running back Kel-vin Taylor will hurt, but the Gators have a stable of seemingly capable backs at their disposal to go along with four freshmen receivers. 
The defense lost some big play-
makers in cornerback Vernon Harg-
reaves, defensive lineman Jonathan 
Bullard and linebacker Antonio Mor-rison, but it also has plenty of veter-ans coming back. 
And the biggest upgrade of all, of 
course, will be at kicker, where Eddy Pineiro looks the part of a future Lou Groza award winner. In short, they’ll be better. But I don’t know if they’ll 
be good enough to beat Tennessee.
Prediction: 9-3, 6-2 SEC
3. Georgia 
Last season’s record: 10-3, 5-3 
SEC
Key players: HB Nick Chubb, 
HB Sony Michel, LB Lorenzo Carter
Analysis: The key for Georgia is 
the health of its running backs. Nick Chubb is coming back from a grue-some knee injury that tore three liga-ments while stablemate Sony Michel recently broke his arm. If those two can stay on the field, Georgia can compete with anyone in the East.
 A lot will also depend on the play 
of UGA’s quarterback, which could 
be Greyson Lambert, Brice Ramsey 
or Jacob Eason. Still, Georgia is likely the last team with a real shot at win-ning the East, even with a new head coach in Kirby Smart. 
Prediction: 7-5, 5-3 SEC  
4. Kentucky Last season’s record: 5-7, 2-6 
SEC
Key players: QB Drew Barker, 
HB Boom Williams, LB Courtney Love
Analysis: Some might think I 
have Kentucky too high on this list, because in much the same way as Tennessee always lives in the shad-ow of unfulfilled expectations, so too 
does Kentucky. But I really like what 
the Wildcats’ offense can bring this year. 
Quarterback Drew Barker was 
one of the most highly touted re-cruits to go to Kentucky in recent memory, and with Patrick Towles’ transfer, he’s the favorite to start. UK also has a few capable backs in Boom Williams and Jojo Kemp, 
who combined for 12 rushing touch-
downs last season. 
And on defense, another highly 
touted recruit — 6-foot-7, 360-pound defensive tackle Matt Elam — should be ready for a significant role if he can stay on the field. Like with Ten-nessee, the pieces seem to be there. It’s just a matter of execution.
Prediction: 7-5, 4-4 SEC
5. Vanderbilt
Last season’s record: 4-8, 2-6 
SEC
Key players: QB Kyle Shurmur, 
HB Ralph Webb, LB Zach Cunning-ham 
Analysis: When Derek Ma-
son took over at Vandy in 2014, I thought he’d be ousted sooner rather than later. 
Continue reading this story online 
at alligator.org/sports. 
COLUMN,  from pg18'Pineiro looks the part of a future Lou Groza award winner'
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Luke Del Rio (14) drops back to pass during Florida's 
Orange and Blue Debut on April 8 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
— the play of Dorian Finney-Smith. 
While the 6-foot-8 forward didn’t 
record the flashiest numbers last 
season — he averaged 14.7 points and 8.3 rebounds on his way to sec-ond team All-SEC honors — he was one of the only reasons Florida even earned a National Invitation Tour-
nament bid.
Finney-Smith was forced to 
adapt to a new role, adjusting for 
the loss of three-point specialist Mi-chael Frazier and an injury-plagued Alex Murphy while taking on more of an offensive load than he ever had before.At times, he single-handedly 
willed Florida, mentoring a young, inexperienced team that distributed heavy minutes among four un-derclassmen and a Junior College transfer.
Finney-Smith recorded back-to-
back 20-point games in wins against Vermont and Florida Gulf Coast early in the season and did it again 
versus Mississippi State and Auburn 
in the thick of conference play.
But maybe the most dominant 
display of Finney-Smith’s scor-ing and leadership came when the unranked Gators upset then-No. 9 West Virginia in the O’Connell Cen-ter in January.
Before the game started, WVU players interrupted Florida’s huddle 
at half court, intentionally disre-
specting a team that was trying to win its first game against a ranked opponent that season.
Finney-Smith finished with 24 
points, including a ferocious dunk from the baseline during the first half.
“It made Dorian a little mad,” 
Chiozza said after the win. “He said, ‘We’re not going to let them come into our house and do that, so we gotta be ready for war.’”
López: Logan always a Shore 
thing on the mound 
Just how good was Logan Shore  
this year?Good enough to strike out about 
five batters for every walk he al-lowed, stifling offenses to the tune of a 2.31 ERA.
Good enough to keep the base-
paths clear, holding the opposi-tion to a .215 batting average and a team-best WHIP (walks plus hits per innings pitched) of 0.96.
Good enough to merit head 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan’s trust, ap-pearing in a team-high 105.1 in-nings as the team’s Friday night starter and hurling three complete games.
When you glance at the stat 
sheet, though, you might be sur-prised to not find his name at the top of every category.A.J. Puk served as the team’s 
resident fireballer. Dane Dunning exhibited just a hair more control. And while Shore’s 12 wins were tied for fifth in the nation, Alex Fae-do’s 13 were tied for second.
And yet, he clinched SEC Pitcher 
of the Year honors, adding to a tro-phy case that already features All-
America nods.
Here’s the thing about Logan 
Shore: He doesn’t just do one thing 
well. His dominance stems from his 
ability as a well-rounded pitcher.
Who do you think was Florida's 
best male athlete? Vote online at al-ligator.org/sports.
AWARDS,  from pg18Florida's male athletes carried their teams into postseason play20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 14, 2016
