We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 68 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
UF women’s basketball plays 
Wofford tonight
The Gators are coming off their ﬁ  rst loss, pg. 13
LongHorn Steakhouse coming to GNV
It opens Monday at Butler Plaza North, pg. 3
Local McDonald’s to oﬀ  er digital order machines
It will be the ﬁ  rst Gainesville location to offer 
the machines, pg. 5O’Connell Center on track to be
open for Fall graduation
It will reopen by Dec. 16, pg. 3
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
A co-founder of The Hufﬁ  ng-
ton Post will speak at UF next 
week. 
Arianna Hufﬁ  ngton will talk 
to an audience at the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts on Dec. 6 at 8 p.m. as part of a 
collaboration between Accent Speakers Bureau and Student Government’s Women’s Af-fairs and Career Development cabinets, Accent chairman Mike Greenberg said. She is being paid $80,000. 
Greenberg said Accent was looking for a speaker who could talk about entrepreneurship, business success and the chang-ing technology landscape.
“She’s kind of the perfect 
speaker for all those topics we were looking to hit this year,” 
he said.  
Hufﬁ  ngton will speak about 
her experience as a woman in 
the corporate world, he said. She will also talk about Thrive 
Global, a new company she is launching that promotes health 
and wellness.
“She’s going to share a lot of 
lessons she’s learned from her successful life,” he said.
Wallace Mazon, 22, said he 
was impressed when he found 
out Accent will be hosting Huff-
ington at UF. 
“I think she has a lot to of-
fer to the Student Body,” the UF African-American studies junior 
said. Mazon, who reads The Huff-
ington Post’s Black Voices sec-
tion on a daily basis, said it is important to have speakers with different perspectives. 
“I’m a big fan,” he said, “and 
I’m excited to hear what kind of questions students have for her, and I’m even more excited to hear how she answers them.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org  Huﬃ   ngton Post co-founder coming to UF next week  
Hufﬁ  ngton
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After a switch from nasal 
sprays to the old-fashioned needle 
prick, fewer Alachua County stu-
dents have received ﬂ  u immuniza-tions this year, UF Health Shands 
Hospital announced Tuesday.
The percentage of children in the county’s schools who received 
immunizations dropped by 41 
percent from last year, a decrease 
of about 6,000 students, said Dr. 
Kathleen Ryan, a UF Health pedia-
trician and the medical director of Shands’ Control Flu program. 
The revelation comes about a 
month before peak ﬂ  u season.
“We know that children spread ﬂ  u more and get more ﬂ  u,” Ryan said. “They spread it to their fam-
ily. Our concern is that we won’t 
protect the community as well.”
Through the program, Shands 
nurses and UF nursing students provide immunizations to children in the county’s public, private and 
charter schools from pre-K to 12th 
grade.But this year, the program — 
along with several others across the country — made a switch to 
vaccines from a nasal spray called 
FluMist.
The change was made in light 
of new guidelines from the Advi-sory Committee on Immunization Practices that concluded FluMist 
was ineffective against one of 
four ﬂ  u strains. This, Ryan said, caused the sharp decrease to 8,200 
students this year, compared to 
14,500 in 2015.Amanda Phrasavath, a 22-year-
old UF nursing student who helps administer immunizations, said 
the slight pain following a shot 
should not discourage kids from getting vaccinated.
“When you prevent yourself 
from getting a disease, you help prevent the people around you 
from getting the disease,” she said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org Oﬃ   cials concerned due to decrease in child ﬂ  u immunizations Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
A CLAUS COFFEE
Mr. and Mrs. Claus take a break from Christmas preparations to order coffee from the Starbucks 
on Northwest 13th Street on Tuesday evening. A group of students studying at the store stopped to gather around the jolly couple and take Snapchats and photos.
She’s being paid $80,000 to speak  
By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF President Kent Fuchs has 
joined more than 350 college and 
university presidents in signing a statement supporting a program that shields those brought to the U.S. il-legally as children from deportation.
Fuchs signed the statement about 
a week ago after receiving an email 
from the president of the Association 
of American Universities, he said. 
The email asked college and uni-
versity presidents to show state of-ﬁ  cials and lawmakers that the De-ferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program is worth keeping. 
University of Central Florida Pres-
ident John Hitt, Florida International 
University President Mark B. Rosen-
berg and University of South Florida President Judy Genshaft also signed the statement. 
Fuchs said he does not know how many students at UF might 
have beneﬁ  ted from DACA, but he 
wanted them and others to know UF welcomes students from all back-grounds. 
“We’re not making a statement 
about doing anything that’s against the law,” he said. “We’re simply say-ing this is a policy that’s beneﬁ  cial to the nation.”
Anaeva Nelsas, a UF biology 
freshman, said comments from President-elect Donald Trump about deporting undocumented immigrants have scared students who have been affected by DACA.
Nelsas was brought from Venezu-
ela by her parents when she was 6 years old, the 18-year-old said. She 
didn’t learn she was brought illegally 
until she was 16. 
Seeing Fuchs’ statement, she said, 
makes her feel supported at UF.
“It shows support in a time where 
we feel very scared and we feel a lack of support,” she said.  President Fuchs pledges 
support for DACA program
A switch from nasal spray may be the causeSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Pajama Party Blood Drive
Get cozy and save a life. 
LifeSouth Community Blood 
Centers is hosting a Pajama Party Blood Drive on Thursday from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. It will be 
held at the Reitz Union, Room 
2315. There will be games and 
prizes. All blood donors will be entered to win a 128-gigabyte 
jet-black iPhone 7 Plus during 
the month of December. Wear your best pajamas.
‘Agbedidi’ returns to UF
An annual favorite returns to UF and the greater Gainesville community Friday to Sunday. “Agbedidi” celebrates tradition-al West African dance together with the postmodern expres-sions of choreographers of the African diaspora. A high-energy performance from world-class musicians and an incredible en-semble of dancers will have you wanting to get up and dance. Performances are at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday and at 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
‘A Christmas Carol’
The Hippodrome State Theatre presents its most recent rendi-tion of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featuring Scrooge, Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim. The show will run Dec. 10 and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 at 7 p.m. and Dec. 21 and Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of redemption, charity and good-will with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for reservations.
UF faculty and staff appreciation 
dayThe Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting its UF fac-ulty and staff appreciation day Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. UF employees with valid fac-ulty or staff Gator 1 Cards may receive one free value admis-sion to the Butterfly Rainforest and Wicked Plants exhibits. Employees may also receive a 10-percent discount in both mu-seum gift shops. These offers are only valid Saturday and may not be combined with other of-
fers or discounts.
Third Annual Mind, Body, and 
Sole 5K race
The third annual Mind, Body, 
and Sole 5K race is Sunday at 
8:30 a.m at the Commuter Lot. 
This event brings friends and 
families together who have been affected by depression 
and/or suicide in order to share 
their stories and spread a mes-
sage of hope for future genera-tions. The event was founded in honor of Dr. Carey Barber 
after his battle with depression 
led to his untimely death. His 
mother, Carolyn Barber, started the scholarship in order to raise awareness about this devastat-
ing mental health issue that af-
fects millions each year. Sign up 
and share the event with friends and family so a light of hope can be brought to those who may be struggling. Register at mind-bodysole5k.itsyourrace.com/event.aspx?id=4649.
GatorNights: Freeze Fest
Celebrate winter with GatorNights on Friday at Freeze Fest. See the internet sensation Us The Duo in concert from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom. Get crafty for your friends, family or your-self by personalizing a snow globe or photo frame. Come watch the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of “Sully” while enjoy-ing a snack from the s’mores bar. Glide down the “Reitz mountainside” on the snow-board simulator or race a friend inside a “Zorb” on an 80-foot track. Create a photo holiday card to share. Bring friends to spread holiday cheer at holiday karaoke. Grab a copy of Sparks Magazine at the official release party in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Midnight Munchies will be breakfast this week in the Reitz Union food court from midnight to 1:30 a.m. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
The Longest Table Gainesville
Enjoy a free dinner and dialogue designed to strengthen relation-ships and unite the community as everyone works together to enhance the quality of life in Gainesville and Alachua County 
during The Longest Table on 
Sunday from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 
p.m. at Depot Park Water’s 
Edge, located at 200 SE Depot Ave. Attendees are encouraged 
to bring at least one nonperish-
able food item to this event, 
which will be donated to the 
Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
‘Sounds of the Season: ¡el 
Festival!’Annual holiday favorite “Sounds of the Season: ¡el Festival!” re-turns to Gainesville on Sunday 
at 7 p.m. at the Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts with 
special performances by the UF Concert Choir, UF Symphony Orchestra, UF Women’s 
Chorale, Gainesville Master 
Chorale, Welson Tremura, 
Scott Wilson and students from the UF Jazz Program and spe-cial guest Ensamble Vocal de Medellín, a professional choir from Colombia, under the di-rection of Jorge Hernán Arango García. Free tickets will be dis-tributed at the Phillips Center Box Office. For more informa-tion, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Correction
The Talace app has been avail-able since last week, and the creators of the app had the com-munity contribute to top-dish picks. The Alligator reported otherwise in a story published Nov. 29 under the headline "New app features best-selling local dishes."
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  84° LOW  65°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 68
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Fall graduates will celebrate 
their commencement in the newly-
renovated Stephen C. O’Connell Center in December. 
The center, which has been 
closed since March for renovations, will reopen by Dec. 16, said Lynda Reinhart, the O’Connell Center’s director. UF’s home basketball 
games will also return to the build-
ing starting Dec. 21. 
Until January, the center will 
only open for events, she said, and people won’t be able to enter dur-ing the day. She said crews will be working on the $64.5 million reno-
vation 24 hours a day for at least 
the next two weeks in order to 
complete ﬁ  nishing touches such as 
cleaning, carpeting and landscap-ing.
“For a project of this size, it has 
gone really well,” she said. “I look 
forward to people coming and see-
ing it.” 
During construction, recent 
graduations were held at Ben Hill 
Grifﬁ  n Stadium. This semester, stu-
dents will be able to graduate in air conditioning. 
Pooja Majmundar, a 21-year-old 
UF political science senior, said she 
is excited to be part of the ﬁ  rst class 
to graduate in the updated center. 
Since becoming a UF student, 
Majmundar said she has been to ﬁ  ve graduations, all held in the 
stadium, so she’s looking forward 
to seeing the renovations and not 
worrying about the weather. 
“I think it’s pretty special,” she 
said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  O’Connell Center on schedule to be 
open for Fall graduation ceremonies
Courtesy to the Alligator
Rendering of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center after renovations. It 
is expected to open by commencement on Dec. 16.
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville will get its ﬁ  rst Long-
Horn Steakhouse on Monday.
The restaurant, located at 2933 
Clark Butler Blvd., will join a host 
of other recently opened business-
es at Butler Plaza North, including Aldi Supermarket and Jersey Mike’s Subs.
Restaurant management will 
host a ribbon-cutting and ﬂ  ag-raising ceremony at 3 p.m. and be-gin serving its ﬁ  rst meals at about 4 p.m., said Kenneth Kimmey, a managing partner for LongHorn Steakhouse who will oversee the Gainesville franchise.
LongHorn’s menu ranges from soups and steaks to sandwiches and seafood, according to its web-site. For alcohol options, patrons can choose among beer, wine and cocktails.
Brittany Baron, a LongHorn 
spokeswoman, said the Orlando-based company decided to open the franchise in Gainesville because it identiﬁ  ed the city as an area with potential for long-term growth. 
Kimmey, who has managed four 
other LongHorn franchises, said the Gainesville market has been on the company’s radar for “a long time.”
After moving to the city and 
speaking with locals, he said he hopes the restaurant becomes a go-to eating option in Gainesville.
“People that I’ve met since I’ve 
moved here are very excited about us coming in,” he said.
Frances Vazquez, a UF student and self-proclaimed steak-lover, said she cannot wait for opening day.
Vazquez said she remembers 
celebrating her boyfriend’s birthday at an Orlando LongHorn. Despite a mistake with her order, the crimi-nology and law sophomore said she couldn’t get enough of the restau-rant’s food.
“I love their ribeye steak, and I 
love getting their mashed potatoes,” Vazquez said. 
 LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant coming to Gainesville 
It opens Monday at Butler Plaza North4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
By Mercedes Leguizamon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Stressed about finals? Go pet a 
cow.
With the Fall semester winding 
down, Gainesville’s Morningside 
Nature Center hopes the de-stressing allure of fuzzy barnyard animals at-tracts more students — and other residents — to its weekly “barnyard buddies” events.
On Wednesdays from 3 p.m. to 4 
p.m., attendees can feed or pet the center’s chickens and sheep, its wild boar or its cow, Penny.
The event is free, but Morning-
side accepts donations, and recently it has been increasing advertising to 
encourage a larger event turnout, 
said Merald Clark, a nature assis-tant at the living-history park, which 
receives funding from the City of 
Gainesville.“It’s a great little program, and 
it does happen every Wednesday, so there are lots of opportunities for people to get out and see it,” he said.
With four final projects due this 
week, Alessia Salimbene, a UF act-ing junior, said she could use some 
animal companionship to make it 
through.
“I deal with exams and stress with 
food or procrastination — also pup-pies,” the 20-year-old said. “And I’m 
a big animal lover, so this is a really 
cool way to go see different animals and get to interact with them. That 
definitely helps a lot with stress.”
“There’s something about petting 
a goat that just makes you laugh,” 
she said.
Morningside is Gainesville’s old-
est nature park, and it often hosts events that aim to give attendees a 
break from contemporary stressors. 
The weekend after Thanksgiving, it organized a Fall Festival that fea-tured a fiddle contest and living-
history demonstrations like making 
sugar-cane syrup and blacksmithing.
“Just being outdoors is good for 
the soul,” Clark said.Nature center hopes finals week draws high event turnout
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville’s Morningside Nature Center hopes the de-stressing allure of fuzzy barnyard animals 
attracts more students — and other residents — to its weekly “barnyard buddies” events.
THEY ARE TRAINING 
THIRD-PARTY 
INSTRUCTORS TO WORK 
WITH FARMERS.
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The updated Food Safety Mod-
ernization Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2011, intended to promote food safety by creating new regulatory guidelines.
Since October, IFAS researchers 
have provided training mandated by the law across the southeastern U.S. for farmers, Michelle Danyluk, an Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences researcher, said.
The training is designed to make 
sure farmers know about the new produce safety regulations like the minimum standard quality of water and standard manure quality, she said. 
“(Farmers) all take food safety 
very seriously,” Danyluk said. “They have been actively engaged in food safety for quite some time.”
Pushback from farmers comes 
from the new changes and added regulatory pressures, Danyluk said. Many of the farmers already fol-lowed the now-mandated safety re-quirements through work with large retailers.
The trainings cost about $150, 
IFAS researcher Keith Schneider said, which helps cover costs of the researchers performing the training. 
“They’re really no more difficult, 
in my opinion, than what some of the large stores require a supplier to do anyway,” Schneider said.
With as many as 3,000 farmers 
needing to be trained under the new law, IFAS has been training third-party instructors to meet the demand, he said. 
“Honestly, we are in a quandary 
because we can’t actually meet de-mand,” Schneider said.
Kiley Harper-Larsen, who oper-
ates a banana and plantain farm in Palm Beach County, Florida, also provides trainings as a former ex-tension agent with UF. 
As a farmer, the 33-year-old has 
seen the pushback but said it was a normal response to increased regu-lation.  
Harper-Larsen said she feels 
that the trainings will help create a standard. Because not all farm-ers have received formal education, the trainings will help provide them with resources and knowledge, she said. 
“There’s not a degree at the Uni-
versity of Florida that you go and you get if you want to be a farm-er,” Harper-Larsen said. “(Farm-ers) don’t necessarily have all of the resources that a food scientist would have in their educational pal-let, and this training is providing a lot of those benefits that I think our farmers are going to see as a central element.”
UF/IFAS researchers providing training to farmers in southeastern USTHE GAINESVILLE CITY 
COMMISSION CANCELED 
TUESDAY MORNING.  
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gainesville City Commis-
sion notified Student Senate on Tuesday morning that it could not attend the semester’s only joint meeting that night. 
Student Government External 
Affairs director Jason Richards told Senate the joint meeting would be rescheduled to next se-mester. Senators will discuss with commissioners how UF and the city can work together to improve Gainesville. 
Senate President Smith Meyers said the commissioners were un-able to attend due to scheduling 
conflicts, although they did not 
specify what the conflicts were. 
“I look forward to collaborat-
ing with them on that meeting,” 
Meyers told senators. 
Rules and ethics committee 
chairwoman Isabella Muncan (Impact, Liberal Arts) told sena-
tors they needed to complete their 
requirements by the Dec. 6 Sen-
ate meeting. She showed senators 
a document that outlined each senator’s unmet requirements.
“You are either elected or ap-
pointed to represent a group of 
people, and as of now you’re let-
ting them down,” she told sena-tors. 
Senators representing districts are required to attend a city com-mission meeting, which could have been the scheduled joint meeting, she said.
University Police Capt. Jeff 
Holcomb told senators how to stay safe during finals week, when crimes usually increase near the libraries when students leave their belongings unattended. 
Holcomb said UPD has in-
stalled cameras in the libraries to combat crime. 
“We have seen a downturn in 
their crimes,” he said. “I’m hop-ing its because of the cameras; I’m hoping that trend contin-ues.”  
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgStudent Senate, City Commission 
reschedule joint meeting
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
University Police Capt. Jeff Holcomb addresses Student Senate on 
Tuesday night about safety during finals week. He said crime usually increases around the libraries during the end of the semester, when more students are studying and leaving their belongings unattended.
“There’s something about 
pettting a goat that just makes 
you laugh.”
Alessia Salimbene
UF studentWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Kendal Barker
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville McDonald’s customers can 
soon order meals through a digital, self-ser-
vice kiosk.
The McDonald’s, located at 2880 NW 
13th St., is the ﬁ  rst Gainesville location to install new kiosks, said J.J. Ditty, the store 
manager. At least two kiosks were recently 
installed as a part of the national corpora-tion’s campaign to modernize the fast-food 
dining experience.
Customers can either pay with a credit 
or debit card directly at the kiosk and print 
their receipts or pay at the cash register, said Diana Barker, the hiring manager at the 
Gainesville corporate ofﬁ  ce. They can also 
use Apple Pay or Android Pay. The kiosks 
show the menu and allow customers to se-
lect their choices and customize orders.Calvin Paris, the owner and operator of 
all Gainesville McDonald’s locations, de-
clined in an email to say how much the ki-
osks and improvements would cost. He said 
with servers bringing food directly to the tables, more people will be hired.
The machines will be working as soon 
as possible, Barker said. The kiosks have 
shown discontinued promotional items, and 
there have been a few incidents in which the software would not accept different types of payment.
“They just ﬁ  nished the install, and they 
are working on the system problems as far as making sure the menu items listed on the kiosk match what we actually have,” she said.
More than 250 McDonald’s restaurants in 
Florida already offer both table service and digital kiosk ordering, with more than 600 expected to have both by the end of 2017.  Local McDonald’s to offer 
digital ordering machinesCatherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Chris Hand, a UF alumnus and attorney, signs copies of the 
second edition of “America, the Owner’s Manual: Making Government Work For You, ” with the book’s co-author, former Florida Gov. Bob Graham.
By Megan Fields
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A former UF faculty member will talk 
about his work with nucleotides, which 
make up DNA, at a symposium for the 
next two days.
Steven Benner, a distinguished fellow 
at the Foundation for Applied Molecular 
Evolution, is one of 12 who will give a 
talk at the UF’s Genetics Institute’s 12th 
annual Florida Genetics Symposium. 
The symposium, held at the Cancer 
and Genetics Research Complex, will begin today at noon and end Thursday at 
about 4:15 p.m. 
During Benner’s presentation, titled 
“Lessons and Applications of Synthetic 
Genetic Systems,” he will talk about his 
research with two nucleotides and how 
they can be used to identify diseases such as the Zika virus.
“I’m really hoping that people will see 
a new kind of DNA they didn’t see in high school and realize that unnatural DNA can solve problems that they have that we may have never seen before,” Benner, 61, said.
The speakers will discuss three overall 
topics: genome editing, microbiomes and synthetic biology, said Ellison Langford, the marketing and 
communications coordinator for the UF 
Genetics Institute. 
About 100 students will present 
posters showing their own research during the symposium, Langford said.
“It brings people together and 
inspires students and faculty,” said Nancy Denslow, a UF professor and the organizing chair for the symposium.Annual Florida symposium 
on genetics begins todayBy Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Former Florida Gov. Bob Graham 
and UF alumnus Chris Hand told about 
100 people Tuesday night that they have the power to change the govern-ment.
At Pugh Hall, Graham, Hand and UF 
faculty and staff discussed the second edition of their book, “America, the Owner’s Manual: Making Government Work For You,” which was released in October. The 10-chapter book was writ-ten to encourage citizens to learn about and make a difference in their govern-ment. “One of the things we hope to ac-
complish is to inspire students to be an active member in their community,” 
Hand said. 
Many students learn about politics 
passively, he said, but participating in 
politics helps students see they can ef-fect change.
“You have to build and ﬂ  ex your 
citizenship muscles,” he said. 
At the end of the talk, Kylee Sipow-
ski walked to the microphone to ask a 
question.
She asked Graham and Hand what 
could be done to ensure politics stays 
a part of middle- and high-school cur-ricula. In her high school, she said, stu-dents only had to take one semester of government.
“It isn’t simple,” the 21-year-old UF 
public relations junior said. “If young students don’t learn how the game works, they’ll feel frustrated and under-represented.”
Hand said a lack of political knowl-
edge will affect other subjects, and in order for students to exercise their civic rights, they must understand them ﬁ  rst. 
“If we don’t learn those things,” he 
said, “all other disciplines will suffer at the end of the day.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  UF alumni encourage GNV residents, 
students to be civically engagedThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Presidential experience: Quality over quantity
First off: My name is Mia, and I’ll be join-
ing the opinions section next semester as a regular columnist. I love music, politics, great food, good books, comedy and be-ing outdoors. That’s all you need to know 
about me — on with the column!
For my inaugural column, I’m tackling a 
question I’ve been mulling over for the past month: Do decades of experience in politics — or business, for that matter — give us the clear-est idea of who will best lead our country? In other words, what kind of experience makes a president most suited to serve?
I ruminated on this idea after Election Day because of 
the nature of our two candidates, Hillary Clinton and Don-ald Trump. Claims of inexperience, or too much experience, ﬂ  ew back and forth across the political aisle. Clinton said Trump didn’t have the political experience to take the of-ﬁ  ce, and Trump shot back that Clinton had served too much time in Washington, making her corrupt and “crooked.” 
Even now, President-elect Trump has promised to 
“drain the swamp,” meaning he thinks we have to “break the cycle of corruption” in our government and “give new voices a chance to go into government service.” This all comes from his website, donaldjtrump.com, and based on his current picks for cabinet positions, I have yet to see any “newcomers” join the scene. But that’s a column for another time.
Sometimes age plays a strong role in the question of ex-
perience. President Barack Obama is 55, taking ofﬁ  ce when he was 47, and he faced a sea of criticism regarding his alleged inexperience.
 Just a quick Google search with the keywords “Barack 
Obama inexperienced” dredges up plenty of circa-2008 sto-ries on his experience (or lack thereof), ranging from web-sites like Politico and ABC News to Breitbart and the Huff-ington Post. Let me be clear: Not all of those websites are news outlets, but, again, that’s a column for another time.
So I did some research, using President Obama as an example. He began his political career in 1996 as a senator in the Illinois State Senate. In 2004, he successfully ran for the U.S. Senate; in 2008, he became one of three one-term senators ever elected president. 
That’s the crux of it: He didn’t have decades 
of experience in an elected ofﬁ  ce before he land-ed the presidency.
Here’s what I think: Even if you disagree 
with President Obama on core issues, maybe environmental protections, reproductive rights or the Affordable Care Act, I assert that he truly 
fought for those issues as effectively as he could with Con-gress working against him. 
Essentially, he didn’t need a half-century of experience 
as an elected politician to get the job done.
Before you stop reading and think I voted for a “Wash-
ington outsider” like Donald Trump because he, too, lacks years in an elected position, know this: Hillary Clinton, like Barack Obama, worked tirelessly in her roles in politics to advance the issues she cared about. 
Her decades of political experience trump Trump’s ex-
perience in the business world, if you can call it that. He duped innocent Americans in his now-defunct Trump Uni-versity, and you don’t see anyone ﬂ  ying the Trump Shuttle or ordering from Trump Steaks anymore, do you?
All I’m saying is this: Look to the quality of experience, 
not the quantity, to get a real picture of what someone can do in ofﬁ  ce. 
I’ll vote for a former civil-rights lawyer and community 
organizer named Barack Obama — or a so-called “career politician” who has championed women’s rights, health care and equality named Hillary Clinton — over a man who thinks his half-century of bankrupted companies, failed business ideas and deliberate deception earns him the high-est ofﬁ  ce in our land any day of the week.
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and law and 
philosophy junior. Her columns will appear regularly next 
semester.A matador and his 
muleta
Tuesday  morning (at 6:55 a.m. to be exact), early riser and 
esteemed tweeter President-elect Donald Trump turned his 
attention toward those who seek to make political state-ments via ﬂ  ag burning. “Nobody should be allowed to burn the American ﬂ  ag – if they do, there must be con-
sequences – perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!” the tweet read. Before we go any further on the implications of this tweet, know these things: In 1989, the US Supreme Court ruled that ﬂ  ag burning is a protected practice under the First Amendment. Addi-tionally, we here at the Alligator in no way condone ﬂ  ag burning. We will continue to point out the many things this country has to improve on, and we will always do our best to point out injustices where we see ﬁ  t. However, that ﬂ  ag symbolizes more to us than a collection of our shortcomings, and we cannot condone such a 
behavior.
Keeping those things in mind, we can ﬁ  nally acknowledge this 
tweet for what it really is: bait. This tweet is nothing more than 
an attempt to “trigger” the frustrated sentiment held by the over-whelming majority of the nation (For example, Trump’s claim that 2 million fraudulent votes were cast has been disproven by virtually every fact-checking institution in our nation.). All Trump is trying to do here is egg on folks to burn the ﬂ  ag so he can de-nounce all those who don’t support him as typical “unpatriotic 
ﬂ  ag burners.”
Perhaps what this really symbolizes, though, is one of many 
views Trump holds: that our Constitution, the backbone of our 
legal system and political structure, is secondary to his glorious in-tuition. He’s demonstrated this before. In a debate against Hillary Clinton, he expressed his desire to bring back stop-and-frisk-style law enforcement. 
He also advocated for stripping away due process to those on 
trial for terrorism and previously threatened to jail his political op-
ponent. Mind you, this is something that would never be allowed 
in the ﬁ  rst place as president. It’s the attorney general’s job, and it’s their job for a reason (see: balance of power).
With that said, we know at least one of two things: Trump 
either does not care for constitutionally given rights to American citizens, or he is not aware American citizens have constitutional rights. Given how he’s broken countless campaign promises, it’s reasonable to assume that he’s not ignorant of the law. So why does he show such disapproval of our rights?
First, we have to understand the setting in which we are work-
ing. Based on the statistics of our known demographics, the ma-jority of Americans aren’t active Trump supporters, nor are they quite comfortable with Democrats (and understandably so). They are “ﬂ  oaters.”
So when Trump says stupid s--- like this, he’s really enticing 
that demographic that is fervently anti-Trump to burn the ﬂ  ag in protest. Naturally, the media catches wind of American citizens burning the ﬂ  ag and sprays it all over TV to the point where it’s 
impossible to ignore (like Colin Kaepernick kneeling during the 
national anthem). Those average Americans turn on their TVs and see images of their neighbors burning the ﬂ  ag juxtaposed with jihadi terrorists doing the same thing, and out of fear (the main ingredient to any successful conservative campaign), they make a decision. They decide to give Trump their reluctant approval.
It’s not possible (anytime soon) for Trump to overturn a Su-
preme Court ruling and make ﬂ  ag burning illegal. Moreover, even if he eventually does, it’s legally impossible to have those who 
burned the ﬂ  ag prior to this overturning stand trial (see: ex post 
facto). So please, don’t give Trump more ammunition.
“Banning ﬂ  ag burning dilutes the very freedom that makes this 
emblem so revered.” –Justice Antonin ScaliaWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Mia
Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
The ﬁ  rst time I dressed in drag, I was in 
the seventh grade. I was at my neigh-bor Elena’s house for a Halloween par-ty, and I didn’t have a costume. Elena took me into her room and painted my 
nails black. Then she applied eyeliner, mas-cara and lipstick to my face. Finally, she put me in this tight-ﬁ  tting dark-blue dress and, voila, I was in costume. I washed most of the makeup off and put on my regular clothes before coming home from the party, but I left the nail polish on. I liked the way it looked.
The next day was Saturday, which was 
the day my dad took me to my weekly ten-
nis lesson, followed by lunch and whatever 
other errands he had to run for the week. 
Before we left the house in the morning, 
my dad asked me, “What the hell is on your nails?”
My tennis instructor was a mustachioed 
man with gray hair and pink, leathery skin. I stepped onto the blacktop and he asked me the same question my dad had in the car. I 
told him I had painted them the night before as part of a Halloween costume. He 
told me I “looked like a fruit.”
After the tennis lesson, my dad 
took me to the store to buy nail pol-ish remover.
I painted my nails periodically 
throughout high school, but it was during my freshman year of college that I started painting them regu-larly. The ﬁ  rst few times I went home for breaks, I would stop at the drugstore for nail polish remov-er before entering my house, but eventually I felt comfortable enough to be around my 
parents with my nails painted.
My mom would give me a big hug, then 
look at my nails and ask me why they were 
painted. I would reply by asking her why her nails were painted, and she would say some-thing like “Yes, but I’m a girl. Nail polish is for girls.”
I had the same conversation with my 
mother numerous times after that. Eventu-
ally she got used to my nails being painted and stopped asking me about it.
My dad never said much about 
my nails being painted, unless 
I was going to a family function with him. He would calmly ask 
me to remove the nail polish on 
these occasions, but I never did.
This dynamic went on for a 
while until last Thursday. 
My dad and I were driving 
to the liquor store for a bottle of wine to bring to Thanksgiving 
dinner at my aunt’s home. He asked me once again whether I would remove the nail polish 
before dinner. 
We got into an argument.
“Dad, it’s been three years. Everyone has 
seen me with my nails painted. You need to stop asking me to take off my nail polish. It’s really annoying, and I don’t think it’s such a big deal.”
“But it is a big deal, Jeremy. I know 
you’re doing this to be rebellious. I know you 
think you’re cool and edgy because you’re breaking the rules, but every normal person 
is looking at you like you’re a freak.”
“Grow up, Dad; ‘normal people’ need to 
stop being so judgmental. You’re my fam-ily, and we’re visiting family. Just accept 
that I like the way painting my nails looks. It 
doesn’t matter, and I think you are so close-minded for not accepting this. I paint my nails; get over it.”
“No, Jeremy, you need to grow up. Maybe 
you want society to not care about the way you present yourself, but they do, trust me. If you keep dressing like you dress, you’ll never succeed in life. Functioning members 
of society don’t do what you do.”
We were yelling at each other at this 
point, and my father pulled the car up in 
front of the liquor store.
“You’re miserable, you know?” I said.“I know,” he said.I went to Thanksgiving dinner that night 
with my nails painted.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Society and self-expression: I paint my nails and my dad doesn’t like itColumn
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
Tyler Ruppel, a 21-year-old UF senior, laughs as she tries on a pair of glasses she created. Ruppel said 
she attended the event to support her friends and Dance Marathon.Kendall Runyan, a 19-year-old UF criminology and law freshman, grabs a cup of hot chocolate from a 
sister of Sigma Kappa. Runyan said she came to show her holiday spirit and support her friends.
Girls enter the Sigma Kappa house on Tuesday evening during the holiday event. The place was decorated with icicles and bows.READY FOR A 
CHRISTMAS DANCE
Photos by Grace King / Alligator Staff
The Sigma Kappa Sorority hosted a holiday party on Tuesday evening to raise money for UF Dance Marathon. Members served a variety of cookies and hot cocoa for guests. Starting at 7 p.m., Gainesville acoustic band The Homebodies performed live in their dining room as guests made Christmas decorations and ornaments for children. They also hosted a rafﬂ  e and an ugly sweater contest.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    12-2-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com      12-6-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-16-10-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Rough guess
5 Company that
developed thefirst aluminumteakettle
10 Pre-coll. catchall14 Words of lament15 Inventive types?16 Wild way to run17 Stock in
companyproducing solarpanels, e.g.
20 California rolls
and such
21 Bud holder?22 Touch-and-go23 Swell treatment25 Cato, for one27 Exonerated by
the evidence
33 Single34 Suggested
actions
35 Wish for37 In-flight fig.38 Jack’s value,
sometimes
39 Spearheaded40 Fixture that may
have claw feet
41 Closed in on43 Fish that can
swim backwards
44 A.L. West pro,
informally
45 Standing
hospitable offer
48 Five-time
Olympicswimming goldmedalist Ledecky
49 Church-owned
Dallas sch.
50 Moth-__53 “Inside Politics”
airer
55 Initial stage59 Take on holes 10
through 18 ... anda hint to a letter
sequence hidden
in 17-, 27- and
45-Across
62 Vacation spot
63 Nemesis64 Canal past
Rochester
65 Far from friendly66 Parceled (out)
67 Frees (of)
DOWN
1 Loses firmness2 No __ traffic3 Former Iowa
Straw Poll city
4 Dwelling fit for a
queen
5 Boxer Laila6 Website offering7 Stalactite sites8 Home of college
football’s Ducks
9 Mule’s father
10 White-coated
weasels
11 Golf ball positions
12 Sound of
frustration, often
13 __-bitty
18 Good-natured19 Copied, in a way24 Called the whole
thing off
26 Early assembly-
line autos
27 Arrange28 Logger’s contest29 Ready to draw,
as beer30 Physics particle
31 Capone cohort32 Cape Cod
community
36 Black, in verse38 Studio renter39 Sweet-smelling
garland
42 Typed in again43 50-50 wager44 Knockout46 __ Creed47 Wild way to run50 Large-scale51 “One more 
thing ... ”
52 Towering54 Put a handle on56 Apple Watch
assistant
57 Oklahoma city58 Driving needs?60 Clothes line61 Dancer Charisse
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/30/1611/30/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 30, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FTCall or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    11-30-16-16-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry LevelPaid TrainingAccess To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/Disabled$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    1-6-16-13-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestWALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.**GatorWell is Hiring!**
Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 500529     12-2-16-5-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Polaris of Gainesville is looking for lot per-
sonnel. Prepping for delivery, lot & building maintenance, general upkeep. valid D.L and background check! Apply IN PERSON at 12556 NW HWY 441, Alachua, FL 32615    12-2-16-4-14
PT cleaner needed M-F &every other Saturday..weekly pay 8.50/hr must have your own transportation 20-30 hrs a week..must pass a drug/background check.. if in-terested please call 352-214-0868     12-5-16-5-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
1. FOOD & DRINK: What is another 
name for the filbert nut?
2. TELEVISION: What was Chan-
dler’s last name on the comedy series 
“Friends”?
3. ARCHITECTURE: Who designed 
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C.?
4. LANGUAGE: Where did the term 
“the blind leading the blind” origi-nate?
5. MYTHOLOGY: In one of Her -
cules’ fabled labors, he had to slay a beast that kept sprouting new heads. What was its name?
6. U.S. CITIES: What city carries the 
nickname “Iron City”?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: The 
direction of starboard on a boat means what?
8. LITERATURE: What famous Lat-
in American author wrote the novel 
“The General in his Labyrinth”?
9. MUSIC: Where did the Rolling 
Stones get their name?
10. MONEY: Prior to the euro, what 
was the name of Greece’s currency?
Answers
1. Hazelnut
2. Bing3. Architect Maya Lin4. Hindu texts, the Upanishads. The 
phrase also appears in the Bible.
5. Hydra6. Pittsburgh7. The right side of a boat when look-
ing forward
8. Gabriel Garcia Marquez9. From a Muddy Waters blues song10. The drachma
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 28, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida stays put in latest CFP rankings
The Gators remained at No. 15 in the latest College Football Playoff rank-
ings, which were released Tuesday, despite a double-digit loss to Florida 
State last week. UF trails Auburn by one spot for the second-highest SEC ranking. For the full rankings, see pg. 15Coach Jim McElwain and 
the UF football team plays Alabama on Saturday. Check out the three things you need to know, pg. 16.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Jalen Tabor remembers the 
feeling.
He was just a sophomore at 
the time, overshadowed by the 
spotlight cast by fellow defensive back Vernon Hargreaves, Flori-da’s featured cover corner.
Still, Tabor remembers the 
feeling during the 2015 South-eastern Conference Champion-ship well — the one most players get when they face the Alabama 
Crimson Tide.
“For the first time ever play-
ing football,” Tabor said on Mon-
day, “I kind of felt like it was a 
little bit tougher than it normally 
was.”  
Alabama will do that to 
you. 
Over the last decade, coach 
Nick Saban has built a power-house in Tuscaloosa, a feared football program that consistently 
brings in the nation’s top high 
school recruits and hovers around the national championship con-versation year after year.
The Crimson Tide haven’t lost 
since September of 2015. They’re riding a 24-game winning streak with a 2015 NCAA title sand-wiched between.
Florida will try to keep them 
from winning their third-straight SEC championship on Satur-day. 
“It’s kind of like a minor-league 
NFL game,” UF quarterback Aus-tin Appleby said. “There’s going 
to be first rounders and NFL play-
ers all over the field.”And on paper, the matchup 
only seems more challenging.
But just how difficult a task 
will it be for Florida to unseat Alabama?
The Crimson Tide rank first in the SEC in scoring offense (39.4 
points per game), scoring defense 
(11.4 ppg), rushing defense (68.7 yards per game) and total defense (246.8 ypg).
Of the last five meetings be-tween Florida and Alabama, all 
of which UF has lost, the Gators 
have been defeated by an average margin of about 21 points.
In addition, UF is expected to 
be without at least seven of its starters, six of which are on de-fense.      
Even so, defensive lineman 
Joey Ivie said Florida can’t view themselves as underdogs, even though most betting websites list Alabama as a 24-point favorite.
UF players: 'Anything can happen' against ‘Bama
UF LOST TO NORTHWESTERN 
ON FRIDAY.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The clock had finally struck zero. 
One team was left dazed by a furious 
fourth-quarter comeback. 
However, for the first time all sea-son, the Florida Gators women’s bas-ketball team was on the receiving end. 
It was an unusual slip-up. A team 
that had outscored opponents by 44 points in the fourth quarter through the first four games of the season fell victim to a 13-2 run, squandering a late lead for the first time this year on Friday against Northwestern.
“We usually kill every opponent in the fourth quarter,” freshman guard Sydney Searcy said on Tuesday.
No. 19 UF will have its first chance 
to respond tonight, when it takes on Wofford at the Patriot Gym in Ocala, Florida. 
The Gators (4-1) will be looking 
to take advantage of a Terriers (3-2) squad that’s struggled on the road thus far. Averaging roughly 33 fewer points per game, both of the Wofford’s losses on the year have occurred away from its home arena.
Despite the disparity, though, Flori-
da isn't taking the Terriers lightly.
“Wofford is a very well-coached 
team,” UF coach Amanda Butler said. “They can shoot the ball. … (And they bring) a lot of balance and they run a 
Gators looking to bounce back against Wofford tonightMelissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor lines up during Florida's win over South Carolina on Nov. 12 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. T abor leads the Gators with four interceptions this season. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 14The Crimson Tide haven't lost since September 2015
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Searcy
FOOTBALL14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
“Personally, you can’t think 
like that,” Ivie said. “Anything 
can happen.”
Instead, UF’s players are hop-
ing to replicate what only one 
other team has done to Alabama 
in its last 27 games: knock off the Tide.
But even in its 43-37 loss to 
Ole Miss last season, Alabama had an impressive outing.
It converted over 50 percent 
of its third-down attempts, fin-ished with 215 rushing yards and 
outgained the Rebels by 70 total 
yards.
The reason Alabama lost?Turnovers.
Former Crimson Tide quar-
terback Jake Coker threw two 
interceptions while backup quar-terback Cooper Bateman threw one pick. Alabama also fumbled twice, ceding possession both 
times.
Florida, tied for fifth in the 
SEC with 21 turnovers forced, 
will likely have to force a few on 
Saturday if it has any hopes of 
winning.
Otherwise, Tabor’s feeling — 
the one that reoccurs each time he steps on the field against No. 
1-ranked Alabama — will return.
“There’s a reason why they’re 
the No. 1 team in the coun-
try. There’s a reason why they 
haven’t lost this year. There’s 
a reason they’re going to their third-(straight) SEC Champion-ship,” Tabor said.
“It’s different. When you play 
those guys, you’ve got to step on the field correctly, and you’ve got to come with everything you’ve got.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg.13Alabama has lost once 
in its last 27 games
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Joey Ivie (91) walks on the field during Florida's win against South Carolina on Nov. 12.
lot of sets.”
Averaging 72.2 points per 
game, the Terriers own the South-
ern Conference’s best offense, counteracting a scoring defense that allows a league-worst 74.8 points per game. 
Paced by senior guard Kentra 
Washington (12.8 ppg), five play-ers place among the conference’s top 30 scorers.
Wofford also leads the SoCon in field goal percentage (44.8 per-cent) and three-point percentage (43.8 percent), and will be look-ing to jump on a Florida team that’s in the midst of a 12-game season-opening road trip.
The Gators aren’t viewing that 
as an inconvenience, though. 
Butler praised the way her 
team has met UF's challenging schedule. She sees it as an op-portunity to toughen up, and her players have echoed the senti-ment.
“It’s pretty hard to not have your court and not be around your people and your fans, but we’re used to it right now,” sophomore guard Eleanna Christinaki said.
“We adjust everywhere.”And, travelling on five-days 
rest, the Gators are positive that they’ll avoid another late collapse. 
“I’m not going to let that define 
who we are, who anybody is indi-vidually,” Searcy said. 
“We’re ready to bounce back."
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org
BASKETBALL,  from pg.13The Terriers average 72.2 points per gameAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eleanna Christinaki, (21), and the Gators won't play their first home game until Dec. 28. "It's pretty hard to not have your court and not be around your fans, " Christinaki said. "But we're used to it. " 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler yells out instructions to her team during the 2016 SEC T ournament.
GAME INFO
Who:  No. 19 Florida vs. Wofford
When: 7 p.m.
Where:  Ocala
Watch:  SEC Network+By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain stood at the 
lectern on Monday and made a 
bold declaration. With a matchup against No. 1 Alabama — a team with the No. 1 scoring defense, rushing defense and total defense in the country — looming follow-ing a double-digit loss to Florida State, the second-year coach was asked about the obvious mismatch of his No. 114-ranked offense fac-ing the elite Crimson Tide defense.
“I don’t look at it as a mismatch 
at all,” he said. “I look at it as a great opportunity and, you know, that’s part of the chess match.”
Odds makers feel differently, 
labeling the Gators as 24-point un-derdogs against Alabama in Sat-urday’s Southeastern Conference Championship game.
However, it was clear on Tues-
day that McElwain’s attitude has influenced his players. 
“No not at all,” said left tackle 
David Sharpe when asked if the game was a mismatch. 
Fellow offensive lineman Fred 
Johnson agreed.
“It’s not a mismatch,” he said. 
“It’s just the mentality that you come out there to play the game and the toughness that you have to finish every drive and every single play that you’re in.”
And so did defensive lineman 
Khairi Clark.
“I feel like we’re not under-
neath them because we’re back to where we were last year,” he said. “But we’re trying to come out with the victory this time. I feel like we can match up just as well as them, so I think we’re going to get it.”
Aside from odds makers, 
though, recent history also favors the Crimson Tide. UF hasn’t beat-en Alabama since the 2008 nation-al championship-winning, Tim Tebow-led season. Since then, the Gators are 0-5 against the current defending national champions. 
Still, even with the high-rank-
ing Crimson Tide defense facing the deplorable Florida offense, Clark said the team is legitimately optimistic. 
“I feel like it’s going to be a 
great matchup,” he said. 
Offense looking to the past 
for future improvement 
When asked what UF’s of-fense has to do to compete with 
Alabama, Sharpe, Johnson and 
guard Tyler Jordan all pointed to 
the same thing: capitalizing on op-
portunities. 
“When we get down in the red 
zone,” Sharpe said, “we got to get points.”
That was a problem for the 
Gators last weekend against FSU, embodied most dramatically 
when Florida easily drove inside 
the Florida State 10-yard line on 
its first drive before being stone-
walled on fourth down.
Against Alabama, the Gators 
are hoping to avoid repeating that same mistake and others like it. 
“We would drive it down but 
not finish in the end zone like we 
should be,” Johnson said. “And 
it’s really just everybody being on 
the same page and just little things 
and little details of the game and 
play calls and stuff like that.”
Sharpe wants a more active 
role in offense 
Sharpe said on Tuesday that 
he’s been hampering coaches with 
an unusual request. 
“I’ve been trying to tell them all 
year, run that left tackle pass,” he 
said. “I’m definitely going to catch 
it.”
Using offensive linemen in tight 
end packages isn’t unheard of. In 2015, Baylor even moved former 
offensive lineman LaQuan Mc-
Gowan — a 6-foot-7, 405-pound 
player — to tight end full time, 
though a move for the 6-foot-6, 
357-pound Sharpe is highly un-
likely.
Johnson, meanwhile, said he’d 
also be open to some pass-catch-ing action.
“Shoot, I want a right guard, 
right tackle pass,” he said when 
told about Sharpe’s ambitions. “I want it first.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Notebook: UF confident in chances vs. ‘Bama
Alabama’s defense is the nation’s best
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
David Sharpe (78) stands over quarterback Austin Appleby during Florida’s loss to FSU on Saturday.  “When we get down in the red zone, we got to get points, ” Sharpe said of UF’s offensive struggles.
COLLEGE 
FOOTBALL PLAYOFF 
STANDINGS
1. Alabama 
2. Ohio State
3. Clemson 
4. Washington 
5. Michigan 
6. Wisconsin 
7. Penn State 
8. Colorado 
9. Oklahoma
10.  Oklahoma State
11.  USC
12.  Florida State 
13.  Louisville
14.  Auburn 
15.  Florida
16.  West Virginia
17.  Western Michigan 
18.  Stanford 
19.  Navy
20.  Utah 
21.  LSU 
22.  T ennessee
23.  Virginia T ech 
24.  Houston 
25.  Pittsburgh16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 2016
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
As No. 15 Florida prepares for a matchup with 
No. 1 Alabama in the Southeastern Conference 
Championship game on Saturday, here are a few things to know from this week’s conversations with Florida’s players and coach Jim McElwain.
1. McElwain won’t judge this season until 
it’s over, but defensive lineman Joey Ivie de-clared it a success:
McElwain has heard the fans’ frustrations: 
four-straight losses to FSU, one win against a ranked opponent this season and an offense that seems to have made little improvement since last year.
But when McElwain was asked whether he 
would declare this season a success no matter the outcome of Saturday’s game, the coach was mum on an answer.
“I’ll step back and evaluate it as you do every 
year,” McElwain said on Monday. “This is a fan base that, at any place that really cares, you’re never going to please them all. I get it. One thing I do know is I believe we’re in the SEC Champi-onship again for the second straight year. Maybe not the way people want it.”
Ivie, a senior, was asked the same question 
but answered differently, applauding the fact that UF has made it this far but being careful not to dole out much more praise.
“I believe we will (view the season as a suc-
cess),” Ivie said. “Things didn’t quite play out as well as we would have liked them to. But, like you said, you can’t make excuses. … We gotta accept whatever happens because at the end of the day, it is what it is.”
2. Florida and Alabama always seem to 
play in the SEC title game, and both team’s players think that’s the way it should be:
The Gators and the Crimson Tide will meet 
for the 10th time in the 25-year history of the SEC Championship game, by the far the most com-mon matchup in the game’s history.
UF cornerback Quincy Wilson said it’s be-
cause both teams enter the season fully expecting to clinch its division.
“Just being that these are the two biggest 
teams, I feel, in the country really,” Wilson said. “Alabama has always been the top dog, and Florida has always been right there to compete with them.”
Florida owns a 5-4 advantage over Alabama 
in the series, and cornerback Jalen Tabor said it just feels right for the two teams to play in De-cember.
“When you think of SEC Championship, you 
think of Alabama versus Florida,” Tabor said. “And that’s the way it’s supposed to be.”
      3. Limiting Alabama defensive lineman 
Jonathan Allen will be key:        Allen, a senior and one of the nation’s top NFL Draft prospects, leads his team with 13 quar-terback hurries and ranks third with seven sacks and 11.5 tackles for loss.
And with their starting center injured, the 
Gators will have their hands full trying to contain him.
“He’s strong. He’s tough. He’s disruptive,” UF 
quarterback Austin Appleby said. “We’re going to have to get a plan for him.”
And in the biggest games, Allen seems to 
have the most production.
Of the defensive tackle’s 11.5 tackles for loss 
this season, 7.5 have come against ranked op-ponents.
So, McElwain, what makes Allen so great?“Probably genetics,” McElwain said. “You 
hear me talk about dynamic playmakers, and a lot of times you don’t talk about that at that po-sition. He’s one of those (players), and you’ve got to be aware because those are the guys that change plays.”
icohen@alligator.org
@icohenb   Florida football: three things to know ahead of Alabama
Limiting ‘Bama’s Allen will be key
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson stands on the ﬁ  eld during Florida’s 16-10 win over LSU on Nov. 19. Wilson and UF’s defense will try to contain No. 1 Alabama on Saturda y.
