We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 140 THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
Far from home, Jorge Garcia 
ﬁ  nds solace on the golf course
The freshman moved from Venezuela at 
age 12, pg. 17
Hogtown touts bigger, better festival
There will be beer, pg. 5
Hackology! event held to attract millennials
It featured trivia and activities about museum items, pg. 12Check out the Avenue
Swamp Records at the Jam, Mediocre Advice and Records Store Day, pgs. 8-9
THROUGH THEIR EYES: PART FOUR
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Emma Leech bears the weight of the sto-
ries she hears.
The University Police detective is one of 
the ﬁ  rst law enforcement ofﬁ  cers to respond 
to a report of a sexual assault, one of the 
ﬁ  rst to speak with the survivor and hear what happened.
Yet after two years and a handful of in-
vestigations, Leech still struggles with the raw emotion and frustration of the stories.
But for the survivor, Leech’s presence 
marks the beginning of a potential path 
to justice — either through the university or local law enforcement. No case or legal work is the same: They rely on the choice of the survivor and assailant’s status as a student to pave the way.
“It deﬁ  nitely weighs on you by the end of 
an interview with someone,” Leech said. “It deﬁ  nitely drains you.”
      
If the assailant is also a UF student, sur-
vivors can pursue a student-conduct in-vestigation through the director of Student Conduct and Conﬂ  ict Resolution, Chris Los-chiavo, at the Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce.
“There’s no way to make reporting about a sexual incident easy, but we try to make it as easy as we can,” he said. “We try to make it judgment-free in terms of coming forward.”
When an on-campus sexual assault oc-
curs, Leech puts on her uniform.
She’s usually accompanied by one of 
UF’s victim advocates when she arrives at 
the location of the survivor.
But the survivor is usually alone, the at-
tacker gone. The crimes still linger, though, 
manifested in both physical and mental  In pursuit of justice 
SEE THROUGH THEIR EYES,  PAGES 10-11
THERE IS CONCERN OF 
HIGH NITRATE LEVELS 
IN WEST ALACHUA 
COUNTY WELLS.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
After more than an hour of 
discussion Tuesday, county com-
missioners unanimously voted 
in favor of sending a letter to the 
state, voicing concerns about high nitrate levels in West Alachua County wells.
The Florida Department of 
Environmental Protection never responded to an initial letter on the issue, said Robert Knight, the director of the Howard T. Odum 
Florida Springs Institute. 
Knight said it is scientiﬁ  cally 
proven that drinking toxic nitrates 
could lead to cancer, thyroid prob-
lems and birth defects.
“Are you going to take that risk 
with your family?” he said.
Nitrogen is sometimes convert-
ed to nitrate in soil, especially in agricultural areas, said Anthony 
Dennis, the environmental health director for the Alachua County Health Department. The depart-
ment sent out teams to test the 
water and discovered the elevated nitrate levels.
Many homes in rural regions, 
he said, get drinking water from 
wells where nitrates sometimes seep into the water undetected.
Dennis said there is no proof 
that nitrates in drinking water can 
cause cancer, but legitimate con-
cerns exist.
“The most adverse health ef-
fect from nitrates over this level 
is (methemoglobinemia), or blue baby syndrome, which causes ox-
ygen deprivation in infants gener-
ally less than 4 months old,” Den-nis said.
He said the Department of 
Health provides an alternative wa-ter source to homeowners when nitrate levels exceed the maxi-
mum contamination level.
Alachua County Commissioner 
Mike Byerly said it was not pos-
sible to immediately mandate a 
reduction in nitrogen fertilizer use.
Instead, the letter will call for 
improved sampling and the map-
ping of nitrogen concentration in county wells.
“I’m happy to support resend-
ing the letter with more exclama-tion points and red ink,” he said.  
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.orgAlachua Commission 
takes o n risky waterBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Growing up, Danny Pudi’s mixed 
background made for a confusing 
childhood.
The Polish and Indian comedian 
told a crowd of more than 200 stu-
dents about his struggles growing up 
and learning to understand the two cultures that molded him Wednes-day night.
He said he created equations to 
calculate the chances of there be-ing another Polish-Indian-American: 0.0016 percent.
“The question I’ve been asked 
most in my life is ‘What are you?’” he said. “’What are you?’ is an easy question to answer. But ‘Who are you?’ is much tougher to answer.”
But two things he’s sure of are his 
afﬁ  nity for Thin Mints and redheads.
The comedian and actor from the 
TV show “Community” was paid $10,000 to speak at the Reitz Union. 
He spoke about the uncertainty he 
faced growing up in two opposite cultures and how he found his way into the world of entertainment.  
Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment invited Pudi because his per-formance wasn’t just stand-up, said Kaitlin Milligan, a speakers and co-medians co-director of RUB Enter-
tainment.
He encouraged the audience to 
stop him for questions or comments 
as he showed a video of his younger self doing a Polish dance and pic-tures of his family.
Varun Aggarwal, 27, said he 
knew Pudi from his role as Abed on “Community.”
“What he said about coming 
from mixed races, it was an interest-ing point of view,” the UF chemical engineering doctoral student said. ‘Community’ actor talks childhood
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Comedian Danny Pudi jokes about his unique multicultural back-
ground at Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s event in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Wednesday night. “I am half-Indian, half-Polish, so that means during the day I run a convenience store, and at night, I clean it, ” Pudi said.
Survivors weigh legal options
“I’m happy to support 
resending the letter with 
more exclamation points and 
red ink.”
Mike Byerly
Alachua  County Commissioner  Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Today: Get in the game with Be 
The Match to save lives
The Athletic Training Program in the UF College of Health and Human Performance is calling 
on every member of The Gator 
Nation to get in the game to save a life! Help UF beat other competing universities for the most people registered as po-tential marrow donors on the national Be The Match Registry. Register yourself on campus to-day from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 
the Harrell Medical Education 
Building, located at 1104 Newell Drive, or register and take part in the competition on-line at join.bethematch.org/UF. If you are between the ages of 18 and 44, patients need you! Learn more at shcc.ufl.edu/be-the-match-uf.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Spring Carnival themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will fea-ture carnival games with prizes, carnival rides and a wide vari-ety of free fair food. The event 
will also feature two showings 
of the movie “Ride Along 2” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and billiards will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 
Cards. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
FSDC Spring Formal, April 15
This Friday, the Florida Swing 
Dancing Club invites you to its 
annual Spring Formal dance. The dance will be located at the Unified Training Center, 809 W. University Ave., with lessons starting at 8 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. There will be food, drinks, a photobooth and people you can 
dance with all for the low price 
of just $5.If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please find the group on Facebook. We hope to dance with you all soon! facebook.com/groups/FLSDC/
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
In an article on April 12, titled “Through Their Eyes: Part 2 - Into the light and out of the dark,” the article should have stated Jamie Edmondson moved 
to France in 2011. The Alligator 
initially reported otherwise.
In an article on April 13, titled 
"Through Their Eyes: Part 3 - The road to recovery," Jennifer Donelan was referred to as a doctor, but she is a nurse prac-titioner. The Alligator initially 
reported otherwise.
All corrections are updated on-
line regularly.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 140
HIGH  79° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Remembering lives lost
Photos by Scott Parker
Alligator Contributing Photographer
RIGHT:
Giselle Lee, 5, holds a candle 
with her family. The annual vigil was held at the United Church of Gainesville and was dedicat-ed to victims of crime and their families. 
BELOW:
Abbey Chokera leads the Pazeni Sauti UF Africa Choir in songs and prayers at a candlelight vigil in honor of Victims’ Rights Week at the United Church of Gainesville on Wednesday. About 40 people attended the event.
A candlelight vigil in honor of Victims’ Rights Week was held at the United Church of Gainesville on Wednesday. At-tendees lit candles in remembrance of those they had lost and placed their candles on a fountain in the courtyard.By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
For the past 28 years, UF professor Julie 
Dodd has helped students find their passions.
Dodd, a journalism professor, has taught 
more than 11,000 students in about 14 build-
ings at UF. About 220 public relations and 
journalism students take her course, Multi-
media Writing, every semester. On Tuesday, she’ll teach her last class in Weimer Hall. 
“I think it’ll be like students graduating 
from college,” said Dodd, who officially re-tires in August. “In some ways you’re looking forward to having a different experience, but then there’s going to be things you’re going to miss.”
Before Dodd retires, she’ll spend her sum-
mer transitioning Multimedia Writing to be available online. It will be the second time the 
course has changed. When she first taught it, 
originally called Mass Communication, stu-dents didn’t go out and report. They wrote from worksheets from a filing cabinet. Dodd changed the class to give her students real-world experience in social media, blogging and interviewing.
“I just felt like so much of communications 
work is about working with people,” she said. 
“So I was really interested in us getting out of the filing cabinet.” Over the years, Dodd 
used teaching to build students’ confidence, she said.
“I think college students want to be chal-
lenged,” she said. “But I think they also want to feel like whatever they’re being asked to accomplish is doable.”
Bonnie Layton said Dodd helped her find 
her strength in teaching. Dodd was Layton’s mentor as she completed her mass commu-nication master’s degree at UF in 1990. Lay-ton, now a lecturer at Indiana University, said Dodd was the first to encourage her to teach.
“With Julie, once you’re a student of hers, 
you’re always a student,” she said. “She has done so much for me.” Dodd was patient and always available to talk, Layton said.
“I always think I need to give that to my 
own students,” she said. “She set the bar very high.”
Dodd will leave the lecture hall for the 
mountains. She’ll continue blogging for 
Friends of the Smokies, a nonprofit organi-
zation which fundraises for the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, and focus on na-ture photography, she said.
She also plans to complete the Hike 100 
challenge, in which she will hike 100 miles through the Great Smoky Mountains to cel-ebrate the 100th anniversary of the National Parks Service.
Dodd will leave a legacy at the college. The 
Graduate Student Teaching Award in the col-lege will be renamed the Julie Dodd Award for Excellence in Graduate Student Teaching.
“I can’t think of a better retirement gift the 
college could have given me,” she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org
Mildreds and New Deal Cafe
Mildreds: fresh, casual, quick lunch and dinner is great for 
date night! Check out our bar dinners at 7pm on Sat nights, 
Reserve at 352-371-1711 or mildredsbigcity@aol.com  
New Deal: UF beef burgers and roman pizzas with happy 
hour from 4-7pm dailyBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh bagels 6:30 
am-3:00pm. Serving Vietnamese cuisine 
Pho noodle soup and more 11 am- 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave. 
352-872-5789
Mi Apa Latin Cafe
Your destination for deliciously Cuban 
food in town. Open 7am-10pm seven days 
a week for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 
Check out our website @ miapalatincafe.
com for online ordering. 114 SW 34th St. 
across from Publix on University & 34th. Bring 
this promo for $3 off any meal or sandwich 
(dine in only)
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee since 1995. 
Tea, smoothies, sandwiches, desserts, beer, 
wine, spirits and much more. Great place to 
meet with friends or study groups. Check us 
out on Facebook–Maude’s Classic Cafe or 
Maude’s Side Car Bar–for more details and 
upcoming events.Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 
wells, 1/2 off select wines by the glass, $5 select specialty 
cocktails, $1 off all beers; 3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south 
of Archer Road on 13th Street in the Shands Parking Garage. 
Private room available. Great for rehearsal dinners, student 
life organizations, and other group events. Always taking 
reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like us on Facebook and 
follow us on Instagram @bluegillqualityfoods for upcoming 
events and daily specials.Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for the 
chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St.
(352) 375-7372
AmericanBreakfast
Cuban
CoffeeLocalItalian
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% 
organic ice cream in 
town! We also have 
an impressive selection 
of organic vegan ice 
cream, baked goods, 
sandwiches, fair trade 
coffee, tea, organic 
beer and free WI-FI. 
Mon-Fri 11am-1am 
Sat&Sun 11am-1amFrozen Treats4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, 
food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, waffles, 
savory waffle cones, 
homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies. Vegan/
gluten free options.
436 SE 2nd St. 
dailygreendowntown.org
Like us on Facebook 
w-sat 11-7, 
sun brunch 10-3OrganicCourtesy to the Alligator
Journalism professor Julie Dodd will retire in August after teaching at UF for 28 years.
Journalism professor retires after almost three decadesTHURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Satchel’s Pizza
Missed connections: U 
were supposed to be 
eating my pie. I am fun 
crazy joint. U are the smart 
crazy college kid.
Find me at Satchel’s Pizza.
Cairo Grille
For some of the most delicious 
food in Gainesville! Come to 
the Cairo Grill! Customers love 
our selection of freshly prepared 
appetizers, salads, entrees and 
desserts, many vegan and 
gluten-free. The chicken beef 
and lamb kabobs are popular 
favorites. Chef Alialso cooks his 
Egyptian family recipes. Yummy!
Try something new today!
2410 NW 43rd Street. 
352-727-7071
gainesville2go.com deliversBallyhoo Grille
Proudly serving Gainesville since 1998. We offer 
the most diverse options ranging from pasta, 
sandwiches, burgers, sushi, salads, ﬂ  atbreads, 
grill items, and fresh seafood. We also serve the 
best wine and beer in town. Happy Hour is from 
2pm to 7pm daily, plus all night on Tuesdays and 
Wednesdays. If you are looking for a unique 
graduation meal, head over to Ballyhoo. We 
have great service and outdoor seating that 
can accommodate any graduation party for 
the student’s big day. 
Located at 3700 W University Ave. 
325-373-0059For information on advertising in 
the Guide to Dining Out contact 
Richie Caudill
Alligator 
Advertising
352-376-4482
Vegan2Go Restaurant
7625 West Newberry Rd,
west of the Oaks mall. Thanks for 
many good feedbacks on yelp.com 
and happycow.net. We offer 100% 
dairy/egg-free & meat free menu, 
Non-GMO tofu, no MSG, Gluten, 
soy & oil free options. Some of the 
popular items: spring & summer 
rolls, drumsticks, BBQ skewers, rice & 
noodle combo, superfood quinoa 
salad, curry rice, tempeh rice, veggie 
pizza, philly sub, raw mango salad 
& cheese cake, whole wheat carrot 
cake. 10% student discount. vegan 
meal plan: $95/week.
Open Mon, Wed, Thu 11am-8pm, Fri-
Sat 11am-9PM.
http://www.vegan2go.us/
352-505-8894Vegan
Bar & GrillLeonardo’s of Milhopper
Great Chicago Style pizza, Quick 
slices now available all day and 
night. On the way to and from 
Santa Fe College. On the corner 
of NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd Street. 
Tear this out for 20% OFF meal. 
4131 NW 16th Blvd in Milhopper 
Square. 376-2001Pizza THE GUIDE TO
Middle EasternBy Savanna Kearney
Alligator Contributing Writer
Inmates at one Florida prison 
can learn culinary skills through 
an expanded UF program.
About 40 inmates at the Fed-
eral Correctional Center in Cole-man, Florida, are learning how to safely prepare food through UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultur-al Sciences’ vocational training 
program. Until recently, inmates 
could only learn how to grow and care for crops in the program.
The expansion is part of a ﬁ  ve-
year contract for $2.67 million, 
said Lloyd Singleton, an extension 
agent with the UF/IFAS Sumter County Extension Ofﬁ  ce.
The program, which began in 
2011, has reduced the number of 
inmates who return to prison after release, he said. 
He said it’s important because 
the U.S. has a high rate of impris-
onment.
“(Our laws) may or may not 
change, so we need to do our best to try to keep people, once they’re released, to be law-abiding citizens and keep them out of pris-ons,” Singleton said.
Susan League, a program as-
sistant for UF/IFAS extension, has taught horticulture at the prison 
for about two years. In her class, 
she’s helped inmates create re-sumes and participate in mock job interviews with real employers.
“It makes an impact, not only 
for our students, but it makes an impact on the public as well, which helps soften their re-entry, which is what we’re all about,” 
League said.  UF/IFAS to certify 
inmates in culinary classLOCAL
By Hannah Ogden
Alligator Contributing Writer
The ﬁ  fth-annual Hogtown 
Craft Beer Festival will include 
more than just beer.
The festival will take place 
Saturday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
at the Tioga Town Center, lo-
cated at 105 SW 128th St., and it is expected to sell out for its third consecutive year, said Ron Minkoff, the lead organizer.
On top of more than 300 beer 
samples and several food ven-dors, the event will introduce complimentary massages from 
Mike & Megan’s Mobile Massage 
Service.
“We’ve noticed that a tasty, 
local beer is a great way to un-wind, and we think it pairs well with chair massages in a festival setting,” said Mike Withee, a massage therapist.
Minkoff said the Tioga Town 
Center offers a large outside area for the stage and vendors.
“We’ve expanded the wooded 
area footprint this year to have even more room and additional nicer surroundings,” he said.
Tickets are $45, Minkoff said, 
and the number of available tick-
ets increased from 1,400 to 1,600.
“Last year’s event raised more 
than $29,000 that we distributed 
to ﬁ  ve of our charity partners,” he said.
Gabe Grass, a co-founder 
and the president of GrassLands Brewing Company, said he will visit the festival for the ﬁ  rst time.
Grass said the best beer is 
whatever sounds good at the mo-ment.
“We brew beer we like,” he 
said.   
Similarly, Minkoff said pick-
ing a favorite beer among more than 100 vendors is nearly im-possible.
“That would be like choosing 
my favorite child,” he said.   Hogtown touts bigger, better festival
It will be held Saturday QUICK FACTS
 Two members of 
Hogtown Brewers 
started the festival 
in 2012 at Kanapaha Botanical Gardens
 Vendors and organizers 
are volunteers
 Several charities were 
picked to beneﬁ  t from proﬁ  ts after the festival
 Tickets are available at 
hogtownbeerfest.com 
for $45
 The festival is located at 105 SW 128th St. #200The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The civil 
disobedience will 
not be televised
It’s a beautiful world and a wonderful life, but these are 
also times of great civil unrest. Tensions between civil-ians and police, institutionalized racism and movements like “Occupy Wall Street” and “Fight for $15” are sobering reminders of such unrest. In light of all this strife, you’d 
think when a noteworthy example of nonviolent civil disobe-dience arises, there’d be relentless cable news coverage of it, right? Right?
On Monday, Democracy Spring, a coalition of more than 
100 progressive groups, arrived on Capitol Hill to stage a sit-in demonstration in protest of a number of issues, including money in politics and voter disenfranchisement. By the time the coalition made it to the Hill, after marching from the Liber-ty Bell in Philadelphia, more than 600 protesters had gathered 
in solidarity. By Monday’s end, more than 400 were arrested.
Not a single shot was ﬁ  red, nobody was harmed, no riot 
gear necessary: civil disobedience in its prime. In terms of pro-
tester-police relations, Cenk Uygur of The Young Turks even reported after his arrest, “The police actually treated us great. There was a real friendly attitude. And we had a couple of pro-cop chants there, (because) they’re in the 99 percent, too.”
Despite how peaceful and admirable these demonstrations 
were, cable news outlets largely dismissed it. As The Intercept 
reported, between CNN, MSNBC and Fox News, the protests 
and arrests garnered less than 30 seconds of airtime Monday. A widespread nonviolent protest along bipartisan lines in which the police and protesters respect each other is a shooting-star story. Why wouldn’t they cover it?
The truth of the matter is much of our political media tends 
toward “if-it-bleeds-it-leads” journalism, which isn’t actually journalism. Many of us here at the Alligator are journalism majors, and we’re trained to prioritize accuracy and transpar-
ency above all else. Yet, they’ve lost sight of this.
When riots in Ferguson, Missouri, in August 2014, and 
when Baltimore was ﬁ  guratively burning in April 2015, cable 
news responded immediately because violent, “urban-thug” stories sell. But, now, when a monumental peaceful demon-stration emerges, the election takes priority.
Money in politics isn’t just an issue on the Hill: It impacts 
us on a day-to-day level, by way of the information we receive and the headlines we read. Think about it: You likely know 
“Benghazi-Gate” as a foreign policy blunder and scandal, but 
do you actually know what happened? You’ve heard of the Affordable Care Act, “Obamacare,” as either one of the great-est evils to plague our streets or a noble achievement of the Obama administration, but do you actually know what the ACA achieved or how it works?
You could probably trace a replica of Donald Trump’s podi-
um with how much airtime it’s received, but the 24-hour news media can only devote a few seconds to the sort of civil dem-
onstration that would ﬁ  ll Martin Luther King Jr. with pride? 
They do their viewers a disservice.
We could close this out many different ways, but surpris-
ingly (or unsurprisingly, depending on how much patience you have for Will Ferrell) Ron Burgundy’s monologue from “Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues” encapsulates our pre-dicament quite well: 
“News is supposed to keep watch over the powerful so the 
powerful don’t become corrupt. But what happens when the 
powerful own the news?”Florida versus Gov. Rick Scott: shouting back
“Floridians have been encouraged to 
believe that government could take care of us. But government always takes more than it gives back.” —Rick Scott, in his 2011 State of the 
State address.
The feigned disdain of government of so many 
conservatives is quite bafﬂ  ing. Like their debo-nair white savior, Ronald Reagan, those on the right “hate” the government they simultaneously control and proﬁ  t from so well. It’s an interesting combo of childlike delusion and pandering to the ignorant masses, whose sustained fear and prejudice are crucial to the existence of the right.
Obviously, I don’t buy the line about wanting smaller 
government. They love government, a living vestige of the absolute control exerted by the moneyed class, which is always one and the same as the ruling class.
Furthermore, Scott knows full well how government has 
taken care of him, both as an individual with white privi-lege and as an unsentenced felon. Scott oversaw the then-largest Medicare fraud in history. Then, he pleaded the ﬁ  fth 75 times when deposed but still got off without going to jail.
His background was in health care, an extremely proﬁ  t-
able venture. I doubt his concern for health care stretches at all beyond that. The same can be said of John Thrasher, who chaired Scott’s reelection campaign and was deter-mined to claim FSU’s presidency as his prize, though he has no background in education. One is reminded of the dogs that mark their territory on every post on the block.
All Rick Scott talks about is jobs, jobs and more jobs. 
Why doesn’t he bemoan Florida’s status as a hotbed of 
human trafﬁ  cking and sexual slavery? Repeat the mantra: 
jobs, jobs, jobs. We know those illicit activities operate well within Scott’s “no government regulation” model, one that beneﬁ  ts from cheap, invisible and disposable labor. In those terms, it doesn’t matter that innocent lives are being destroyed.
I think we should gauge the health of any place in terms 
of human welfare — of which economics are an inextri-cable part, but so are health, culture, access to legal recourse and protection of the law.
So, when you speciﬁ  cally target low-income 
populations and strip them of services they rely on to survive, that fails them in a profound 
way. It’s eerie to consider who should be held 
accountable, because “the government always takes more than it gives back,” as Scott pontiﬁ  -cated. Don’t forget, though, as the sentiment ex-presses: “A system cannot fail those it was never built to protect.”
Naturally, these kinds of measures build dis-
content. Having lived in Tallahassee, I have seen ﬁ  rsthand how impenetrable and corrupt Florida’s government is. Av-
erage citizens, powerless by design, try to arrange meetings 
with their “representatives,” and their efforts are seldom met with even form letters.
That’s where people like Cara Jennings come in. Afford-
ed no recourse and not even given a modicum of access, the only avenue we have left is through our words. She said what we all know: Rick Scott is an a--hole. He won’t be told what to do, but he’ll cut your health care because “Daddy knows best.”
Some assert yelling at the governor (gasp) is horribly of-
fensive to his ofﬁ  ce. That’s cute. I would appreciate if these people found it within themselves to consider those who suffer because of the austerity measures of the powerful whom they so adulate.
The episode obviously struck a nerve with Scott’s PAC 
“Let’s Get to Work,” which uploaded a campy video de-grading a private citizen. That’s not leadership. It’s crass and cowardly. If anything, that kind of behavior debases 
the dignity of the ofﬁ  ce.
There is no virtue in respecting or even tolerating politi-
cians who use citizens as pawns for neoliberal experiments 
and wish to reduce Florida to a big rat race. Hang in there, fellow Floridians. We all know from “Harry Potter” good ultimately prevails.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column usually appears on Wednesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Tickets online at sunfest.com or call 1-800-sunfest (786-3378)
Steve Aoki • G-Eazy • Slightly Stoopid
The Roots • Bastille • Jason Derulo
Walk the Moon • Fitz and The Tantrums
Flogging Molly • Capital Cities
Duran Duran • Alabama Shakes
Meghan Trainor • Train
Death Cab for Cutie • Evanescence
Andy Grammer • Lukas Graham
Coleman Hell • Judah & The Lion
and more!Wicked Jams.
Warm.Waterfront. 
‘nuff said!
For more information including hotel packages, visit 
sunfest.com/comeandstay
Get the App!
Get the 2016 App t o mak e your smartphone 
even smart er, and y ou e xperienc e even easier.5days, 50bands, 3stages
Discover SunFest and The Palm Beaches
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Letter from the editors: If you’re reading this, it’s too late. This is the last Avenue of the semester. Hope you enjoyed read-ing! Yes, I just made a Drake reference. YOLO.Record Store Day 2016
See what local record stores are doing for the holiday, pg 9THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
THE SHOWCASE IS AT
7 P .M. ON FRIDAY.
By Raegan Daley
Avenue Writer
Swamp Records anticipates hitting a capacity of 600 
people at the third-annual Swamp Records Showcase on 
Friday. 
The showcase starts at 7 p.m. and ends at midnight. 
The event will be free and open to the public at The Jam, located at 817 W. University Ave.
The president of Swamp Records, Reid Casey, said the 
main goal of Swamp Records is to give members of the team hands-on experience with the music industry and with artists on the rise.
The event will feature well-known Florida artists like 
Magic City Hippies, Flat Land and SALES. The performers 
who participate in the event are mostly indie soul, indie 
funk or electronic.
Breana Auberry and Rachel Ring founded Swamp Re-
cords in the Fall of 2013.
It began its operation under Student Government Pro-
ductions at UF. After Swamp Records had its ﬁ  rst show-case in the Spring, Swamp Records and SGP agreed to have Swamp Records go in its own direction, although SGP still provides funding for the showcase.Casey said the team that helps manage Swamp Records 
includes an events and branding committee, which han-dles public relations, and a business committee, which 
manages sponsorships and artist teams.
Each band or artist Swamp Records verbally com-
mits to is assigned a personal artist team member or a 
band mentor, Casey said. The vision is to bridge the gap between UF and the Gainesville music scene to make it 
more cohesive.
“The most fulﬁ  lling part about being president of 
Swamp Records is being able to see students connect 
with these bands,” Casey said.
Fae Nageon de Lestang is the violinist and lead singer 
of the band Flat Land, which has been making music for more than four years.
She said the band tours regularly around the Southeast 
and has played at local venues in Gainesville. The group 
also performed at the Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival.
“We have played for crowds of over 1,000,” she said. 
“We try not to make the size affect the way we play. We 
try to play with the same amount of heart.”
She said she loves playing at The Jam, and the best 
part about being able to play at music festivals is learning about new music.
“I think whenever you’re at a festival, you get an op-
portunity to learn about music you had no idea existed,” 
de Lestang said.Swamp Records show to ﬁ  ll The Jam
MUSIC
MEDIOCRE ADVICE
comfort zones & boys
Dear Mediocre,
What’s the best way to get out of my comfort 
zone and meet new people?
Trust me when I say you are not alone. Right 
at this moment there are thousands of couch 
potatoes snuggled up with their beloved pets, 
watching Netﬂ  ix and wishing they had the chill aspect to go with it.
The best way to shake the shyness is to put 
out an ad on Craigslist. It’s what everyone is doing these days. Go ﬁ  nd the personal ads and write a long description of yourself. Divulge ev-erything. You never know what potential friends are looking for. Make sure to add in your contact 
information so these new friends can call you as 
soon as they hear what an awesome person you are! Boom.
Lifelong BFFs,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
What do I do if my BF wants to get married but 
doesn’t seem to care if I ﬁ  nish school?
You have two options here:1. Marry him and don’t ﬁ  nish your education.2. Don’t marry him and slay.Good luck,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
What’s the best way to make it ofﬁ  cial?
This is a classic case of exclusivity. You want 
him to lay claim to you, but you’re not sure how to make that happen without sounding like a 
full-blown psychopath. Don’t worry, I have the 
perfect solution to your problem.
Make it Facebook ofﬁ  cial. I know it seems 
like a bold move, and maybe you should consult him ﬁ  rst, but those are just your nerves talking. Just have a few glasses of wine and then take the 
plunge. He’ll deﬁ  nitely appreciate it — even if 
you’ve only been dating for a few weeks.
Next, start telling everyone you know, and 
I mean everyone. Your friends, teachers — the bouncers at the club. No ear is too small to hear all about your love. Trust me on this.
The third and ﬁ  nal step is to start hinting 
around at long-term stuff, like marriage and chil-dren. Don’t be shy about it. There is a 99.9-per-
cent chance he is probably wanting to bring it up 
as well — even if you’ve only been dating those few precious weeks. Don’t worry! In this day and age, everything is fast.Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Courtesy to the Alligator
Swamp Records is hosting its third-annual Swamp Records Showcase on Friday. Pictured above is local 
band Flat Land during the Okeechobee Music & Arts Festival. The band will perform on Friday.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Chase Drayer
Avenue Writer
Hear Again Music and Movies 
normally retains a quiet atmosphere  
— until the third Saturday of April.
The typically soft background 
music gets cranked up. The regu-lar ﬂ  ow of customers turns to lines forming outside, and casually sift-
ing for records evolves into a frantic 
search.
More than 1,000 record stores 
across the world prepare their shops for the hordes of vinyl-hungry con-
sumers on Record Store Day.
Gainesville’s independent record 
shops, Hear Again and Arrow’s Aim 
Records, will be participating Sat-
urday. Doors open at 9 a.m. and 
noon, respectively.
Andrew Schaer, the owner of 
Hear Again, 39, said this day brings in the most business all year. The 
store never fails to come out ahead ﬁ  nancially.
“I think it’s just literally impos-
sible given the sheer amount of 
people that show up,” he said.
The day commemorates the 
“unique culture” record stores bring to the community, according to the 
Record Store Day website.
Vinyl and CD releases and rere-
leases are created only for the holi-
day and are distributed among par-
ticipating stores.
The holiday gained quick popu-
larity since it began in 2008. Hear 
Again has participated since 2010, and Arrow’s Aim has participated 
for four years.
“At the very beginning, it had 
legs,” he said. “It just got more and 
more popular through the years.”
Hear Again’s ﬁ  rst Record Store 
Day didn’t receive a lot of foot traf-ﬁ  c — but the following years were dramatically different.
“It was just like, ‘hello!’” Schaer shouted with a smile.
People ﬂ  ooded the record shop, 
which is about the size of a tennis court. As the years went by, it got even busier.
Hundreds come from all around 
Florida and some parts of Georgia. 
Vacationers away from their local 
record stores have been known to come in as well.
The line to get inside stretched 
farther back each year. It eventu-ally wrapped around the whole building, and people would wait for hours. Last year it didn’t dissipate until the end of the day, and the 
store’s door never had a chance to 
close.
Adam Mickler, 22, said he wait-
ed about two hours.
“I got there pretty late and didn’t 
get my pick of the litter,” he said. “I got the main one I wanted though. It was OutKast’s ‘Player’s Ball.’”
Some people even camped out for the event. Schaer said people be-gan to wait in line 12 hours before 
the event.
He described the event as a 
“madhouse,” but he said the crowd 
is generally positive. Customers are kind and respect each other.
“People share the titles as the 
quantities get lower,” he said. 
“They try to make sure that they 
and the people around them come out with something they want. They’re all in it together, and we’re 
in it with them.”
This year’s Record Store Day has about 350 titles that are submitted 
from various music labels, distribu-
tors and artists. Record stores con-
tact providers to stock their stores.
Arrow’s Aim will be getting 
around 50 titles, according to owner Daniel Halal, 31. Schaer said he’ll 
be ordering a majority of the list.
One of the oldest and strangest 
Record Store Day titles Schaer or-
dered was from 2013. It was a re-
release of The Flaming Lips album 
“Zaireeka.” It needed four record players to start at speciﬁ  c times to hear the songs properly.
Because record players tend to 
have different start times, he said listening to the album was probably always a different experience.
When asked why anyone would 
have four record players, he re-sponded with a confused look.
“I know, right?” he said. “I imag-
ine most people don’t. I have two. A third that I wouldn’t speak of.” Record Store Day returns to Hear Again and Arrow’s Aim
LOCAL
“People share the titles as the 
quantities get lower. They 
try to make sure that they 
and the people around them 
come out with something 
they want.”
Adam Mickler
22-year-old  record enthusiast10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
trauma.
As the survivor is initially treat-
ed for injury, the investigation be-
gins with a conversation.
“We’ll try to get as much initial 
information as possible,” Leech said, “but if they’re just not in the state of mind where they can deal with an intense interview at that point, I’ll wait a day or two until they have time to process it.”  
The excruciating details, the 
unanswered questions, the miss-
ing pieces — they all take a toll 
on her as the investigations lead either to arrests or dead ends.
“If you don’t end up finding 
answers, that’s probably the most stressful, frustrating part of it,” she said.
But the hope for justice is un-
flinching, as is Leech’s belief in the survivor.
“If someone comes here, and 
they’re telling me that they were involved in a sexual battery, I’m taking whatever they say as the truth to me,” she said. “I’m not 
doubting anything they say.”
In addition to a statement, if 
the survivor wishes to have foren-
sic evidence recorded in a rape kit, a designated nurse will perform the examination.
The survivors will choose 
whether they want to report as-
saults to police. If they choose 
not to report, their test kits stay at UPD in case they wish to report at a later time.
While UPD has received eight 
reported calls for sexual battery this academic year, it’s unknown 
how many of those survivors 
wanted rape kits.
For survivors who do report, 
police send the kits to a lab in Jacksonville, Florida, where the Florida Department of Law En-
forcement analyzes them before 
sending the results back to UPD.
Currently, eight untested kits 
sit at UPD, belonging to survivors who chose not to formally report their assaults, said Lt. Mitchal Welsh, who manages the Criminal Investigations Division at the de-partment.
UPD is handling one active 
case to date, a sexual battery that occurred Sept. 7, Welsh said.
FDLE recently sent UPD the re-
sults of that kit, so the department is not waiting on any other kits, a relief considering the extreme backlog many Floridian police de-partments often face.
“It’s all about power,” Welsh 
said, “and that power’s been taken from the victim, and we re-ally want to get them some power back.”
•   •   •
The length it takes to complete 
an investigation can vary.
Sometimes leads dry up, in 
which case an investigation will be suspended until more evidence 
can be found, Leech said.
“You just do as much as you 
can,” she said.
Even if an arrest cannot be 
made due to an unknown suspect or a lack of evidence, police de-
partments can file a sworn com-plaint against the suspect and send it to the Office of the State Attorney for the Eighth Judicial Circuit.
One of about 30 lawyers there 
reviews the case, takes testimony and makes a decision whether to issue a warrant for the suspect’s arrest, said Bill Cervone, the state attorney for the Eighth Judicial Circuit.
For some survivors, like 
21-year-old Brianna DuPree, this 
process is as cumbersome as it is 
frustrating.
After the UF public relations 
junior was sexually assaulted in late February, she went to the Gainesville Police Department with the hopes of seeing her at-tacker serve jail time.
But almost two months have 
passed, and DuPree’s attacker is still walking free.
She had a testimony sched-
uled Friday with an attorney, but it’s been pushed back about two weeks due to backlog at the attor-ney’s office, she said.
“It makes me kind of feel like 
maybe I shouldn’t have gone to 
police,” she said.
Even if an arrest is not made, 
DuPree said she wants her attack-
er banned from campus — he vio-lated her privacy, but his record is unsullied.
“He’s not paying for what he 
did,” she said, “but I feel like I am.”
•   •   •
If DuPree’s attacker had been 
a student, she could have filed a Title IX report.
When survivors at UF choose to report on a fellow student, they often report to Chris Loschiavo at his office in Peabody Hall.
He is the associate dean of stu-
dents, the director of Student Con-duct and Conflict Resolution and 
the deputy Title IX coordinator for 
students — titles that represent his work with survivors, students and Title IX.
Title IX is a federal law that 
prohibits gender discrimination in any federally funded education program or activity.
In past years, the Dean of Stu-
dents Office has received about 10 to 15 Title IX reports per academic year, which include sexual harass-ment, stalking and sexual assault.
But in the last couple of years, 
the number has risen to about 80 to 90 cases per year, Loschiavo said.
So far this academic year, Los-
chiavo said, 36 sexual assaults have been reported to the Dean of Students Office, all from female students.
Twenty-six of those cases oc-
curred off-campus, he said.
If the student wishes to pursue 
an investigation into an assault, Loschiavo assigns an investigator 
to his or her case. The investiga-
tor then interviews the survivor, the accused student and all other witnesses.
Loschiavo will eventually re-
ceive and review a summary before deciding if the accused student violated the UF Student Conduct Code against sexual as-
sault.
“I think that’s important to 
keep in mind: The only thing the 
University of Florida can deter-mine is whether or not someone violated our rules,” he said.  “We can’t determine whether someone committed a crime.”
If he feels a violation did occur, 
then Loschiavo will send the case to a Title IX hearing.
At the hearing, which occurs at 
Peabody Hall, the survivor and the accused meet with either a five- to seven-person panel of students and faculty members or with a single administrator from Loschi-avo’s office.
Every undergraduate commit-
tee member has been trained in about 60 hours of Title IX proto-
col, a weekly course taught for 
a semester by Loschiavo and his staff. Students apply to the com-mittee before receiving the train-ing, an opportunity often criticized for allowing students power over their peers.
Loschiavo said some campuses 
have done away with this student-
hearing method, but others still 
employ it.
He said students can better 
empathize with other students far better than administrators can.
“It works really well for us, but 
it wouldn’t work on every cam-pus,” he said. “Not every campus has the support to do the kind of 
training that we do.”
At the hearing, the panel or the 
administrator reviews the investi-
gative summary and speaks with the survivor, the accused and any witnesses. A decision is then made on a simple-majority basis.
Unlike the criminal justice sys-
tem, which functions on the basis 
of probable cause, Title IX cases 
deal in what’s called a preponder-ance of the evidence, which Los-chiavo compared to a set of scales — if the evidence tips one scale in one direction, even very slightly, that is enough for a violation of the conduct code.
After the hearing, the panel 
or administrator recommends a punishment to Jen Day Shaw, the dean of students, who can confirm 
or appeal any ruling.
If a victim so desires, the Dean 
of Students Office can require the 
accused student write an apol-ogy letter to the victim, but this is rare. The minimum punishment for sexual assault charges is a sus-pension, and the maximum is an expulsion.
Suspensions can range from a 
semester to several years or for as long as the victim attends the uni-versity, Loschiavo said.
He said about 10 to 15 students 
are suspended each academic year for Title IX violations.
Currently, about 10 students 
have been suspended this aca-
demic year.
Even though awareness for 
sexual assault has brought in 
more survivors to his office, Los-chiavo said there’s still room for improvement. Moving forward, he said his priorities are teaching stu-dents how to not only intervene in potentially dangerous situations, 
but also how to respond to a sur-
vivor’s story.
“But then at all costs, if some-
one reports to you that they be-lieve they were sexually assaulted, believe them,” he said. 
Editor’s note: This is part four 
of an ongoing series on sexual as-
sault survivors. See Friday’s paper 
for a look into the recovery process of survivors.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgThe Dean of Students Office provides services for survivors
THROUGH 
THEIR EYES,  from pg 1
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Chris Loschiavo, the director of Student Conduct and Conflict Resolution at the Dean of Students Office.
THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  
WHO TO CONTACT
Victims Advocate
A Victims Advocate is available 
24 hours a day by calling UPD’s 
Dispatch Center at 352-392-1111. During business hours, Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Ad-vocates can be contacted directly at 352-392-5648. You can email Vic-tim Advocates at annekcarper@ufl.edu and nphineas@ufl.edu. 
U Matter We Care 
You can confidentially and 
anonymously reach out to the Dean of Student’s Office U Matter We Care team about students who may need help at umatter@ufl.edu.
STRIVE
STRIVE peer educators are 
available to hold open nonjudg-mental forums for discussion of issues related to sexual violence.  You can contact them at 352-392-1575 or visit their website at gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
UF LGBT Affairs
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender (LGBT) Affairs pro-vides education, advocacy, and support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and straight-allied students, staff, and faculty at the University of Florida. You can reach the Univer-sity of Florida LGBT Office at 352-392-1261 or email lbh@multicul-tural.ufl.edu. 
Medical Care
The University of Florida Stu-
dent Health Care Center leads, col-laborates, and excels in the provi-sion of comprehensive services through wellness promotion and compassionate and accessible care. The Student Health Care Center also has a Women’s Health Care Clinic that is a nurse practitioner-run clinic with a female focus. The clinic includes but is not limited to services such as counseling on con-traceptive options, sexually trans-mitted disease/infection (STD/STI) prevention, sexuality and other women’s health, screening, diag-nosis and treatment of STDs/STIs, breast exams and instruction in self-examination, pap smears and routine pelvic exams and pregnan-cy testing.
Counseling Services
The University of Florida Coun-
seling and Wellness Center has professional counselors and thera-pists on staff and offers individual or group counseling dealing with any form of sexual exploitation or other issues related to victimiza-tion. All counseling services are free and confidential. The center has an excellent referral system should your needs be better met by a different agency or program. You can reach the University of Florida Counseling and Wellness Center at:
3190 Radio Road(352) 392-1575www.counsel.ufl.edu/cwc By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
It was an early morning in San Francisco 
when a man raped Matthew Bratko.
Nearly two years later, on Tuesday night 
in Gainesville, Bratko stood and watched 
as some of his friends depicted a post-party sexual assault in “Ashley’s Consent,” a four-
night play held in the Newins-Ziegler Hall 
breezeway.
The play was sponsored by the Dean of 
Student’s Office, UF’s Center for Arts and 
Medicine, the Office of Victim services and Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Edu-cation.
Bratko said sexual assault continues to 
plague the country, but as more survivors 
speak out, others will hopefully learn from 
their stories.
“It happens way more often than people 
like to think it does or will admit to them-
selves that it does,” he said.
•   •   •
“Let’s not pretend it doesn’t happen right 
here at the University of Florida,” said Mi-chael Martinez-Hamilton, an adjunct lecturer 
in the UF School of Theatre and Dance and 
the writer of “Ashley’s Consent.”
Tuesday night during a small get togeth-
er, Ashley — played by Marissa Secades, a 
19-year-old UF theatre and English sopho-more — was drunk when her estranged boy-
friend began to make advances toward her. 
He kissed her and later put his hands 
down her pants when she was nearly uncon-scious.
The next morning, Ashley’s clothes were 
on but her shorts were unbuttoned. Her at-
tacker had texted her, hoping she had a great 
night.
From there, the victim-blaming began, 
first from her best friend and then her moth-er.
“So this was my fault?” she tells her friend 
the next day. “He physically violated me.”
In writing “Ashley’s Consent,” Martinez-
Hamilton said he wanted to highlight some-thing that makes him uncomfortable and that makes most people uncomfortable.
He said he wished to shed light on the 
grey areas within sexual assault situations, mainly bystander intervention and victim blaming.
“That was my goal: coloring in those gray 
areas, raising those issues that make us un-comfortable,” he said.•   •   •
By the end of the play, which forced a 
standing audience to follow the actors as they changed location, Ashley visits the Dean 
of Students Office to come forward about 
what happened to her.
But as Bratko watched on, he felt part of 
the story hadn’t been told.
“I did take issue with the fact that they 
leave out, as so many rape narratives do, the way that society institutionally enables men and makes them feel entitled to female bod-ies,” he said, “which is just a huge problem 
nationwide, across the world really.”
•   •   •
From a young age, Bratko said, men are 
instilled with the idea they have domain over 
women and their bodies, something perpetu-
ated by popular culture and the media but ig-
nored almost everywhere else, including UF.
Of all the programs offered by the Dean 
of Students Office teaching men not to rape, 
none address the underlying cultural basis, 
he said.
He said he can feel the culture changing 
with regards to survivors speaking out about their experiences and society in general in-
creasing its awareness about sexual assaults.
“More people are talking about it,” he 
said. “More people are willing to come for-
ward.”
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgPlay highlights consent and sexual assault
It’s called ‘Ashley’s Consent’This academic year, UPD has received 13 calls for sexual battery. 
Seven of those reports occurred in Spring.
Not all are reported based on the survivor’s choice, according to UPD crime logs
           
                      
36 sexual assaults have been reported to the Dean of Student’s Office
26 out of the 36 cases occurred off campus
According to Chris Loschiavo, the director of student conduct and conflict resolution at the Dean of Student’s Office
Currently, eight  untested kits sit at UPD, belonging to survivors who 
chose not to formally report their assaults, said Lt. Mitchal Welsh, who oversees the Criminal Investigations Division at the department.
“That was my goal: coloring in those 
gray areas, raising those issues that make 
us uncomfortable.”
Michael Martinez-Hamilton
adjunct lecturer in the UF School of Theatre 
and Dance and the writer of “Ashley’s Consent”12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
A ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thAlligator Advertisers 
The Alligator will not be publishing fromA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionA ttentionAlligator Advertisers A ttentionA ttentionA ttention
Thursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9thThursday, April 21st
til Monday, May 9th
The Deadline for Tuesday, May 12th is
Friday, May 6th by 4:00 pmFriday, May 6th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed 
Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume 
publication again on 
Tuesday, May 10thAlligator Advertisers Alligator Advertisers 
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
By Cecilia Lemus
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Samuel P. Harn Muse-
um of Art will host an evening 
with artists and performers from 
around the globe today.
The second annual Art With-
out Borders event will take place from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Harn, 
located at 3259 Hull Road.
Cynthia Tarter, the assistant 
director for Undergraduate Aca-
demic Programs at UF’s Interna-
tional Center, said the event is part of Museum Nights, which occurs every second Thursday of the month.
A digital display will feature 
work from the International Cen-ter’s 2016 Global Culture Photo Contest, Tarter said.
“Art is international… the idea 
is that there are so many ways to get globally engaged,” Tarter said.
Along with food and museum 
tours, she said, the free event will 
feature artists such as Ameena Khan, who will showcase a series 
of paintings under an exhibition 
entitled “Just a Peek, Please?”
The series is about Muslim 
women who are portrayed as vic-
tims in need of rescue or mysteri-
ous seductresses, thus dehuman-
izing them, according to Khan’s website.
Tarter said Art Without Bor-
ders will also include Taiko drum-
ming and English country danc-ers, along with a Q&A session 
with ﬁ  lmmaker and actor Imran 
Khan, which will take place after 
a screening of the ﬁ  lm “Timmy II.”
Tami Wroath, the director of 
marketing and public relations for the Harn, said the event attracted a diverse crowd during its debut last year.
“It’s a great mix of UF students 
and the community,” she said.  Harn  to host art, music and food for Art Without Borders
IT FEATURED TRIVIA AND 
ACTIVITIES ABOUT MUSEUM 
ITEMS.
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 150 people answered trivia ques-
tions about museum pieces Wednesday 
night.
The Florida Museum of Natural History 
held its ﬁ  rst Hackology! to draw millennials 
to the museum, said Tiffany Ireland, a mu-
seum educator. Museum Hack, a company 
based in New York that specializes in giving unique tours, ran trivia and activities about items on display in the museum.
Museum Hack has been around for a few 
years, and Ireland said it has revitalized in-terest in museums around in New York, par-ticularly in art and natural history.  
“It’s a different way of looking at art,” 
she said. “It’s a different way of going to a museum.”
Hackology! tickets went on sale in March 
and sold out Monday, Ireland said. Usually these tours cost about $50, but the muse-um’s cost about $20, and the museum posted coupon codes on Facebook for a half-off dis-count.Four Museum Hack employees spent all 
day Wednesday planning trivia and learn-ing about pieces in the museum, said Kai-tlin Gardiner, the museum’s marketing and public relations coordinator. She said the museum is trying to bring people out who don’t normally come to museums.
“Our goal is to really target young pro-
fessionals and offer a different type of event that isn’t really speciﬁ  c or offered anywhere else in Gainesville,” Gardiner said.  Hackology! event held to attract millennials, spark interest
UPCOMING MUSEUM EVENTS
MAY 14: 
 Wicked Plants: The Exhibit 
Celebration
JULY: 
 Creative B Movie Series
 A panel of artists and scien-
tists will give a discussion before and after a science ﬁ  ction movie
AUGUST: 
 Murder Mystery NightIt’s part of Museum Nights
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Chris Castellanos, a 22-year-old UF recreation, parks and tourism alumnus, holds an 
artiﬁ  cial fossil to ﬁ  nd what animal it belongs to with his friends during a game orga-nized at the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Hackology! on Wednesday night.THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer 
$300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry.... 1203 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        5-10-16-6-2
Great Family Home For Rent 4BR/3BA 2,344 sq ft Sterling Place at Blues Creek 5007 NW 69th PL. Wood & ceramic flrs, all appliances, close to Talbot Elem. $1,995/mo call or text 352-494-3277       5-10-16-6-2
Beautiful Condo for Rent in Casablanca 2635 SW 35th Pl unit 1101 new wood flrs in BR new ceramic tile in LR 2BR 1-1/2 BA water incl. Location close to UF, shops & downtown $750/mo call/text 352-494-3277    5-10-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE 5 Bed/ 2 Bath, Great Downtown location, 2 balconies, wood floors, great character. 320 NW 1st St. $2,500/mo. Call 352-377-3110 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu        4-20-16-5-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator ClassifiedsFOR SALE Well Loved, Well maintained, & Well Raced Tri Gear1 55 cm LITESPEED SABER TRI BIKE, 9 sp DA, New Seat, Excellent wheels, Oval 
Trailing Front Brake, Ouzo Aero Pro fork, 
Integrated Profile Design aero bar/bull horns, 
XLab bottle holders - $950 700C ZIP TUBULAR WHEELS 303 Front, 404 Rear, SS blade spokes- $650
700C PROTOTYPE ROLF 12 bladed spoke 
front wheel - $75
700C clincher tires/tubes FREE w wheel or bike purchaseThis stuff led to 65 podium placings, I've 
moved on to adventure cycling
coachallen@rehabtoracing.com or Text to 
571-213-0254                    4-19-16-5-9  
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 12 AutosTHURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-15-10-14
Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Camp Counselor. Looking to provide a safe, nurturing, and fun environment for girls? Ideal applicants are available M-F, have large group experience and a willingness to grow in an active environment. Visit www.girlsplace.net to apply.       4-14-16-5-14
Cloud 9 is a busy day spa searching for happy, qualified people for our Support Staff team. Must be flexible, reliable & available at least 20 hrs per wk incl Saturdays.Great pay & discounts! Visit cloud9spa.com to ap-ply.   4-19-16-5-14
1 Person to cook and clean for elderly wom-an in small apt.  Tower Oaks Glen. Must be dependable. Call 9am - 5pm 352-318-0711  5-10-16-5-4
PT experienced cleaner needed for homes/apartments/offices. Must have a reliable transportaion. Must pass drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868 4-20-5-14
Financial Asst. 15-18 hrs wkly. Detail ori-ented professional w/bookkeeping, computer and general office skills needed. Pls. email sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.  4-18-16-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
RAIN INTERNATIONAL INVITESYOU TO EXPERIENCEPOWERFUL SEED NUTRITIONWYNDHAM GARDEN GAINESVILLEADDRESS: 2900 SW 13TH ST,SUNDAY APRIL17TH2016 4PM SHARPBUSINESS ATTIRE., LIMITED SEATINGFREE TASTING OF THE PRODUCTWHILE SUPPLIES LAST   917-754-2731     4-15-16-3-20
A - $1,000 Daily Returning Phone Calls. No selling, no MLM, No Limits. Not a job. Brief Overview:  877-860-6161 4-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
CLEANING SERVICE
Blow off debris & leaves. Clean up Inside 
& Out- Residence-Commercial 352-221-
5708 4-20-5-15 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 ConnectionsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Deacon Liput and Florida's 
freshmen have been an important part of the baseball team's success.Read the column on pg 18.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF softball game cancelled
Wednesday's softball game between Florida and Florida State was called off 
in the bottom of the ninth inning due to inclement weather. The game was tied 0-0 before play had to be stopped. The game will resume on May 4, prior to Florida's game against FSU in T allahassee. Here we are.
As of 
now, it has 
passed the point of ran-
domness, no longer filed under good for-tune.
It’s bordering on 
ridiculous.
Florida’s athletic 
programs have been exceed-ingly good this year. 
They have not been just 
above average, fighting for posi-tions in their respective regions and looking to capture top spots in the Southeastern Conference. They have been simply domi-nant.
Every Division I Spring sport 
Florida has to offer, except for men’s basketball, was nation-
ally ranked at some point this 
spring. Eleven of the 13 teams were ranked in the top 10 in the country. 
With that in mind, here’s 
your end-of-the-semester break-down of how each active team is fairing near the season’s fin-ish line.
BaseballThe No. 3 Florida baseball 
team is 30-5, and although it just dropped a weekend series against then-No. 5 Mississippi State, losing at home for the first time since 2015, the Gators bested FSU 8-2 on Tuesday and 
still reign supreme in the SEC.
Twenty one games separate 
coach Kevin O’Sullivan and his 
soon-to-be professional pitching staff (see: MLB first rounders A.J. Puk, Logan Shore) from the conference tour-nament. After, UF 
will have a chance 
at earning a trip back to the College World Series.
Softball
Then there’s softball, the No. 
1 program in the country led by Tim Walton, which will try to 
become just the second team in 
history to achieve three-straight national titles come June.
Florida is led by its pitching 
staff, a three-player rotation that includes two of the nation’s top three leaders in ERA in sopho-more Aleshia Ocasio (0.45) and junior Delanie Gourley (0.78).
The postseason doesn’t be-
gin until May 11 with the SEC Tournament, but expect the Gators to mow through their op-position when it does.
GymnasticsIf there’s a Florida team that 
can rival the success of the soft-
ball program, there’s no ques-
tion it’s the No. 2-ranked gym-nastics squad. 
Former coach Rhonda Faehn 
left UF before the start of the season to become the senior vice president of the USA wom-en’s team and was replaced by former Auburn assistant coach 
Jenny Rowland.
The dropoff has been mini-
mal.Breaking down UF sports 
near the end of the season By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
It took nearly 49 minutes of 
game time for Florida to con-
cede a goal against Marquette on Wednesday.
With about 11 minutes left to 
play, freshman goalie Haley Hick-len allowed MU junior attacker Amanda Bochniak to net her team’s ﬁ  rst goal of the afternoon.
The Golden Eagles proceeded 
to score the match’s ﬁ  nal four goals, but the effort was too late.
Behind 12 ﬁ  rst-half goals, the 
No. 2 Gators' (13-1, 4-0 Big East) victory was never in doubt, and they cruised to a 15-5 win. 
Freshman Lindsey Ronbeck 
scored four of her season-high ﬁ  ve goals in the opening half. 
Ronbeck said that she was able 
to get a good look at the back 
of the net, which has happened 
more often in practice lately.
“I just transferred that into the 
game and just remembered to see around the goalie instead of the actually goalie, because I usu-ally shoot into her, so I think that helped a lot,” she said.
While the Gators won just 
three of eight draw control oppor-tunities in the second half, they ﬁ  nished the game with more draw controls (11-9) than the Golden Eagles (4-9, 1-2 Big East). 
It was just the ﬁ  fth time this 
season that UF had more draw controls than its opponent, but it was also the second time in a row.
Florida won 12 of 23 draw con-
trol opportunities in Saturday’s 14-7 win at Georgetown.
“In practice, throughout the 
weeks, we’ve been really focus-ing on trying to work hard every single day and trying to focus on getting all the ground balls,” De-fender Taylor Bresnahan said.
Ronbeck said that winning 
the draw is important because it Florida breezes past MarquetteIT'S COHEN DOWN
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19SEE LAX,  PAGE 19
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Lindsey Ronbeck runs toward the net during Florida's 14-4 loss to Maryland on March 19 at 
Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
Gators led 12-0 at half
SWEET AND BAUER
Bruce Arians used to be one of my 
favorite NFL coaches. 
As an interim head coach, he led 
the Indianapolis Colts to a 9-3 re-cord after head coach Chuck Paga-
no had to leave to be treated for leukemia. 
He was then hired to take over the 5-11 
Arizona Cardinals, which he coached to a respectable 10-6 record in just one season. 
And in his three years in Arizona, he 
has yet to win less than 10 games, with the team  steadily improving every year. 
All that plus the fact that he brings a sig-nature swagger to the sideline with his thick-rimmed frames and cabby hats made him a pretty likeable guy.
That is, until he made some 
controversial comments earlier this week. 
I say controversial only be-
cause they’ve garnered a lot of attention, but ideally, there would be no controversy about what he said. Only outrage. 
Speaking to a high school coaching 
clinic at the team’s practice facility, Arians voiced concern that the game of football is under attack be-cause of its increasingly strong link to the degenerative brain disease CTE. 
“It’s the best game that’s 
ever been invented,” Arians 
told the crowd in a conversa-
tion recorded by NBC's 12 News in Arizona. “And we have to make sure that moms 
get the message, because that’s who’s afraid of our game right now. It’s not dads, it’s moms. Our job is to make sure the game is safe, at all levels. The head really has no business being in the game.”
These comments are extremely prob-
lematic for two main reasons, starting with the inexcusable sexism. 
To insinuate that moms are more con-
cerned for the safety of their children than 
dads is just downright insulting. 
I’m sure there are some dads out there 
who do, regrettably, pledge a blind alle-
giance to America’s game, but to make a blanket statement like that is just not re-alistic.
Arians' comments on CTE in football were insensitive, inaccurate
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @icohenb
SEE ARIANS,  PAGE 19THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Jorge Garcia was always swing-
ing.
It didn’t matter where he was, 
and he didn’t even need a golf club 
to do so. 
It didn’t matter if he were out in 
public or at a friends house. 
To Garcia, it was always time to 
work on his game.
“I was always swinging an invis-
ible club everywhere,” Garcia said. “At the dinner table, at the mall … It didn’t matter where I was.” 
Garcia, a member of the Florida 
men’s golf team, was born in Ana-co, Venezuela — a small industrial town in the state of Anzoategui.
Although he’s now starring at 
one of college golf’s top programs, things weren’t always easy.
Despite hardships, from deal-
ing with the instability in his home country to adjusting to a new life in America, one thing remained con-stant.
His passion for golf.
“Nothing too fancy”
In a town of only about 100,000 
people, Garcia knew almost every-one in his neighborhood. 
Throughout the week, people 
would constantly dart in and out of 
his house. Friends and family would 
pop in to have a meal or simply to say hi. 
In front of Garcia’s large home 
sat a well maintained yard where his mother, Sara, would host par-ties.
Everyone liked him. And every-
one knew what he was about — 
golf.
From the time he could walk, 
Garcia used to toddle along 
when his father, Jorge Louis, 
and older brother, Jorge An-
dres, would go to the course.
Finally, when Garcia turned 4, his father bought him his ﬁ  rst clubs, 
a set of Snoopy Juniors. Seven clubs in all.
Garcia was instantly smitten.“I loved them,” Garcia said. “I 
wouldn’t even want to take the wrapper out. They were so good, and it was such a big thing at the moment.”
From then on, Garcia took the 
game seriously. 
He worked on his craft for hours 
on end at his home course, Anaco Country Club, a small, nine-hole 
course where weeds dotted the 
fairways like a checkerboard and scuffed-up, second-hand range balls were used for practice. 
With the grass sometimes up to 
his ankles, Garcia would press on, hitting ball after ball, chip after chip and putt after putt in the hot, tropi-cal climate of northeastern Venezu-
ela.
“That’s where I started,” Garcia 
said. “Nothing too fancy.”
He soon began competing in and 
winning various junior tournaments 
in his hometown and neighbor-ing cities. On occasion, his golﬁ  ng prowess even took him to the U.S. to play against some of the best young 
juniors in America.
“I kinda fell in love with the com-
petition of it and how hard it was, 
and ever since, I just kept playing,” Garcia said.
Until one day, when it was all 
taken away.
“That was kinda the only 
thing I really loved.”
Throughout the early 2000s, 
then-Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez, who called golf a sport for the rich and privileged, went on a tirade against the golﬁ  ng industry, 
closing numerous courses through-
out the country, including Anaco Country Club.
For Chavez and his socialist gov-
ernment, golf courses were seen as a stronghold for elitism.
They had to go.Garcia was 9 at the time.Gone were the long hours of 
practice. Gone were the competi-tions. The golf clubs, which Garcia could seemingly never put down, were set aside with only the hopes of gathering dust.
“That was kinda the only thing I 
really loved,” Garcia said, “and they took that away from me.”
So, Garcia turned his attention to 
other sports. From the age of 9 un-til the age of 12, Garcia dabbled in soccer, volleyball and basketball. He even played goalie for a local roller-blade hockey team. 
And although he had fun, noth-
ing ever came close to matching his love for golf. 
The desire to play the sport he 
loved still burned inside him. The ﬁ  re remained stoked amidst the un-stable politics that tried to quench it.
Three years after the closing of 
Anaco Country Club, Garcia, then 12, made the decision to leave his family behind and move to the U.S. to pursue a career in golf. 
He was going to live in Miami 
with his aunt Maria Benitez and her two children. 
Benitez, who moved to the U.S. from Venezuela in 2003, was Gar-cia’s mom’s best friend growing up and eventually became Garcia’s god-
mother.
Papers were ﬁ  led. Arrangements 
were made. Everything was set for 
Garcia to return to the game he loved.
Then came the day it was time to 
leave Anaco behind.
“I freaked out,” Garcia said. “Ev-
erything had already been done. All 
the papers had been ﬁ  led, and I told 
my dad, ‘I’m not going.’”
His father wouldn’t listen.“You already made the decision,” 
he remembers his father telling him. “We had to do so much for you to do this, so now you just gotta get up and do it.”
And with that, he left.
“He was just a kid.”
Along with his parents, Garcia 
boarded the plane that would take him from his homeland. Three hours later, he arrived in sunny Mi-ami. Benitez was waiting for him at 
the airport.
His parents stayed with him the 
ﬁ  rst few days in Miami. When they 
left to go back to Venezuela, the weight of his reality hit him.
“Every night he’d move to my 
bed. And I’d come back to his bed with him and stayed with him until he slept,” Benitez said. “I knew it 
was hard for him without the par-
ents … He was just a kid.”
Without the support of his par-
ents, Garcia felt lost.
“I feel like the ﬁ  rst day where I 
actually felt alone, it was when they left,” Garcia said. “I just remember crying that whole day.”
With one chapter of his life 
closed, another one soon began.
After three long years, Garcia 
was ﬁ  nally swinging again.
His new home in Doral Isles bor-
dered the famous Doral Golf Course, a regular tournament-stop for the PGA Tour. Jorge was ﬁ  nally free. Free to practice. Free to work. Free to pursue his dreams.
“I left so many things behind,” 
Garcia said. “Friends, family, broth-er … I left a lot of things behind be-cause this is what I wanna do, and that’s what kinda pushes me some-times.”
He was focused and prepared to 
be the best he could be. Even amidst frustration, there was no stopping 
him.
“He was so focused on golf,” 
Benitez said. “He went to practice 
every day until night … He loved it.”
His obsession with the game got 
to the point where Benitez some-times feared for his health.
Benitez said she always warned 
Jorge about the dangers of being out 
in the sun too long.
But he would always say, “No, 
I have to practice because if I’m 
home, someone’s getting better. If I don’t go, they’re going to be better than me.” 
“He was always trying to push 
himself to work harder, harder, harder,” Benitez said.
And the hard work paid off.Garcia became one of the top 
junior golfers in the country. From 2013 on, he was a ﬁ  xture on leader-boards across junior golf. 
His win at the 2013 AJGA Puerto 
Rico Open earned him an exemption to play in his ﬁ  rst PGA Tour event 
at the 2013 Puerto Rico Open, where 
he made the cut as a 17-year-old.
Garcia would go on to win the 
AJGA Thunderbird Invitational in 2013 and the AJGA Taylormade-Adidas Golf Junior in 2014, making him a ﬁ  rst-team Rolex Junior All-American in 2013 and 2014.
In 2014, Garcia would ﬁ  re rounds 
of 64, 68, 64 and 67 to capture his second Toyota Junior Golf World Cup Championship in a row.
And then came an offer. An offer 
to play collegiate golf for the Univer-sity of Florida.
“He had a life that not 
every kid has.”
Garcia was ﬁ  rst recruited by then-
Florida coach Buddy Alexander. 
After visiting UF, Garcia was ex-
tended an offer. He would commit to play for the Gators the summer 
before his sophomore year of high 
school.
“I didn’t really know how big of a 
deal it was at the time,” Garcia said of his commitment. “I just knew the University of Florida was some-where where I wanted to play golf.”
But things wouldn’t go as 
planned.
After 27 seasons and two nation-
al championships, Alexander retired from coaching at the end of the 2014 Spring season.
In June of that year, Alexander 
was replaced by J.C. Deacon, a man in his early 30s coming off four sea-sons as an assistant coach at UNLV.
The ﬁ  rst task the rookie head 
coach was assigned was securing a star-studded incoming class that included Garcia and highly-touted recruits Sam Horsﬁ  eld and Gordon Neale.
Both Garcia and Horsﬁ  eld met 
Deacon at Highlands Reserve, Hors-ﬁ  eld’s home course in Davenport. 
“We just talked about the future 
and what they wanted and what I thought the program could be,” Dea-con said. “Literally within ﬁ  ve min-utes, we all got along really, really well. It made it really easy.”
Now, almost two years later, 
Garcia has come full circle. 
He’s starring on one of golf’s pre-
mier college teams and is currently 
ranked as one of the top-70 colle-
giate players in the country.
But even with the perks of being 
a top golfer at a top program, Garcia still thinks back to those days that made him who he is.
He remembers sneaking out on 
a closed course, hoping security wouldn’t throw him out. 
He remembers hitting second-
hand range balls for hours on end in ankle-high grass. 
He remembers the decision 
he made and the relationships he forged from it.
And he remembers the time 
spent with his aunt. 
She’s just glad he’s happy and 
pursuing his dreams.
“Even though he was with me, it 
was hard for him, and we tried to do our best,” Benitez said. “But I think it was not easy. He had a life that not every kid has. And he deserves good things.
“He’s my son.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgFar from home, Garcia ﬁ  nds solace on the golf course
The freshman left Venezuela at the age of 12
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
As Dalton Guthrie punches his 
glove and scans the ﬁ  eld, waiting for the next pitch to be thrown, the shortstop is surrounded by a trio of fresh faces.
To his left at second base stands Dea-
con Liput. To his right, Jonathan India mans third base. Behind him, Nelson Maldonado is deep in left ﬁ  eld.
Two months ago, they had never 
played in a collegiate baseball game. They were freshmen eagerly awaiting their chance to play under the lights in front of thou-sands of fans.
Now, 35 games into their ﬁ  rst season, they’re mak-
ing their presence known, proving to be the make-or-break factors for this Florida team.
“They’re deﬁ  nitely coming into their own,” Guth-
rie said. “It’s not easy playing in this league and as a freshman so it’s kind of a learning process at ﬁ  rst but they are deﬁ  nitely handling it well.”
As the No. 3 Gators (30-5, 8-4 Southeastern Con-
ference) begin a three-game road set with Arkansas (21-12, 4-8 SEC) tonight at 9, those three freshmen will once again be looked upon as the difference makers. 
Here’s a look at what each of the freshmen skill 
players has done to this point in the season:
Jonathan IndiaAfter an average start to the season, India is thriv-
ing at the plate as of late.
The Coral Springs native who bats in the bottom 
third of the lineup paces the Gators and SEC fresh-men with a .409 batting average in conference play, a mark that ranks ﬁ  fth in the league overall.
He’s on a six-game hitting streak and has safely 
reached base in 11 of Florida’s past 12 games, re-cording 14 RBIs and ﬁ  ve doubles during that stretch. His most impressive outing came in the series opener against Texas A&M, where he went 4-for-4 with a pair of doubles and drove in three runs.
The biggest difference with India has been his 
increased plate vision. Instead of hacking away at pitches near the strike zone, India is taking the time to ﬁ  nd the right pitch. Deacon LiputAfter seeing his batting average hover 
around the .350 mark for most of the sea-son, Liput has appeared to hit the fresh-man wall.
Over the last 10 games, he has just 
seven hits in 40 at-bats (.175 batting av-erage).
In 54 SEC plate appearances, Liput 
has struck out 14 times — a team-worst 25.9-percent of the time — while record-ing just 10 hits and drawing ﬁ  ve walks.
But while Liput’s offensive performance has 
lagged, his performance on the diamond has im-proved each game.
The second baseman has yet to commit an error 
in SEC play and has just two miscues overall in the ﬁ  eld, tied for the second-lowest mark among start-ing SEC middle inﬁ  elders who have had at least 100 chances in the ﬁ  eld. He’s also helped turn 14 of Flor-ida’s 20 double plays.
Nelson MaldonadoMaldonado is the late bloomer.Unlike India and Liput, the Tampa native and 
now-starting left ﬁ  elder was not in the opening-night lineup.
A natural third baseman who made the transition 
to playing in the outﬁ  eld, Maldonado spent the ﬁ  rst 15 games of the year playing behind junior Ryan Lar-son, earning spot starts from time to time. The spo-radic appearances left the freshman ﬂ  ustered.
But after coach Kevin O’Sullivan let Maldonado 
start the entire series against Harvard, he’s taken off.
After beginning the season with a 2-for-26 hitting 
clip, Maldonado has since posted a .313 batting av-erage with three doubles, two triples and ﬁ  ve home runs while continuing to make strides in the outﬁ  eld.
His power potential is there every time he steps 
to the plate, evidenced by his two home runs in the series opener against Kentucky.
He’s still searching for consistency at the plate, but 
now that he’s consistently in the lineup, he has the opportunity to show the coaches what he has to offer.
Jordan McPherson is a sports writer. Contact him 
at jmcpherson@alligator.org and follow him on Twit-ter @J_McPherson1126.A look at Florida’s freshmen after 35 games
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Deacon Liput swings during Florida’s 10-4 loss to Mississippi State on April 9 at McKethan Stadium. 
FEARSOME MCPHERSON
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
The Gators are 10-2 and will 
compete in the NCAA Champion-
ship Semifinals on Friday, look-ing for their fourth-straight na-tional championship. 
And with four seniors grad-
uating after this season, this might be the Gators’ last and best chance at a national title for some time.
Leading the team is senior 
Bridget Sloan, the country’s No. 1-ranked all-around competitor who has earned three perfect 10s this season.
The 26-time All American will 
try to send her team off with one 
final victory.
Women's Tennis
Coach Roland Thornqvist is 
at it again, and aside from being far and away the most quotable coach UF has to offer, he’s led the women’s tennis team to a No. 4 national ranking and a 11-0 
record in the SEC.
 From Court 1 to Court 6, each 
player is a threat to sweep their 
opponent. 
But if you were searching for a 
player to keep your eye on, don’t overlook sophomore Josie Kuhl-man, the 2015 All American who has a 7-1 record in SEC singles 
play and has clinched three UF 
victories since March 5.
And in case you weren’t 
aware, opposing teams who visit Gainesville are usually doomed before they step off their team bus.
At the Ring Tennis Complex, 
the Gators haven’t dropped a 
dual match in 11 years. 
That’s 157-straight victories.
That’s the longest active 
home winning streak in Division I sports.
Florida has two more road 
matches before they open up the SEC Tournament on April 20.
Men's TennisThe men’s tennis team isn’t 
too far behind the women.
Ranked No. 13, coach Bryan 
Shelton and the Gators have won seven of their last nine dual matches. 
And despite dropping a pair of 
5-2 decisions on April 6 to then-
No. 13 Virginia and last Friday to 
then-No. 7 Georgia, UF bounced back with a decisive 6-1 road victory over South Carolina on Sunday.
Co-captain and senior Di-
ego Hidalgo had been Florida’s leader on the No. 1 court, going 9-2 in SEC singles play and 6-3 
in conference doubles play this 
season.
Will this be the year Florida fi-
nally earns its first national title?
Not likely.But, with a second-place 
standing in the SEC at 8-2, they can vie for an SEC Champion-ship, which they haven’t won since 2011.
Lacrosse
The No. 2 lacrosse team is 13-
1, has won its last four games 
and sits in second place in the 
Big East. 
UF is led by redshirt senior Ni-
cole Graziano, who has 31 goals 
and 30 draw controls.
With three more games left in 
their regular season, the Gators 
are poised to make a run at their 
second-straight Big East Champi-
onship and possibly more. Golf
Finally, we arrive at Florida 
golf — two teams that deserve a 
ton of recognition.
Coach Emily Glaser and the 
No. 8 women’s team have five 
first-place finishes out of a possible six tournaments this spring, and will compete at the SEC Championships starting Fri-day. 
Junior Karolina Vlckova is 
the unquestioned standout, compiling six top-10 finishes this season.
On the men’s side, coach J.C. 
Deacon has rejuvenated a UF team that last won a conference title in 2011 and a national title in 2001.
The Gators are ranked No. 6, 
and are led by a trio of freshmen 
that has been impressive all sea-
son long. 
First-year players Jorge Gar-
cia and Gordon Neale have given Deacon reasons to be optimistic for the future. 
Then there’s freshman Sam 
Horsfield, who has seven top-five finishes this season and 
three tournament victories.
They’ll begin play at the SEC 
Championship on Friday. 
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alliga-
tor.org and follow him on Twit-ter @icohenb.
COLUMN,  from pg 16When I was a kid wanting to play foot-
ball, both my parents voiced equal con-
cern about the game’s violent nature, and that was before the game’s link to CTE be-came so prominent. And I know that my 
parents — mom or dad — are not alone. 
Arians tried to clarify his comments, 
but instead succeeded in spinning his tires 
and sinking further into the already-over-whelming mud. 
“My point is that moms are often the 
ones making those decisions in a family,” he said via Twitter. “We have to make sure that they’re getting the message about ev-
erything being done to make the game as 
safe as possible.”
You know he’s in it deep when even 
in his clarification statement, he offers no  evidence of moms being more involved than dads when determining if a child plays football or not. 
That’s the problem that’s gotten the 
most attention, but there another problem 
with his statements, too. He says that the 
head has “no business being in the game,” meaning that with proper tackling, block-ing and playing techniques, a player’s head should suffer no damage. 
The problem, of course, is that it’s an 
unrealistic solution. 
Until science can figure out a way to 
detach a person’s head before a game and re-attach it after while still somehow 
giving players control over their bodies, 
heads are going to be inherent to the way the game is played. No amount of change in tackling technique is going to change that. 
Whether at the bottom of a pile, deep 
in the trenches or even if delivered with a shoulder pad, hits to the head are still go-ing to happen. 
I can’t blame Arians for defending the 
game he loves, but blathering on about how safe the game is without a full un-derstanding of how CTE works is just ir-responsible. 
Throw in the sexist overtones he used 
to do it, and I just can’t root for the guy anymore. 
Ethan Bauer is the assistant sports edi-
tor. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org 
and follow him on Twitter @ebaueri.ARIANS,  from pg 16
brings a sense of confidence to both the 
offensive and defensive units.
Florida found success on free positions, 
scoring on 4-of-6 opportunities. 
That marked the highest percentage 
the Gators have shot this year when at-tempting at least five free-position shots. Ronbeck scored three from the mark while redshirt senior Nicole Graziano scored one of her two goals from the free position. 
Coach Amanda O’Leary said that, nor-
mally, she ends practices with free posi-tion drills, but lately the players have taken it upon themselves to work on free 
positions early in the day.
“They’re really connecting on those 
eight meters and just playing, really, an 
unselfish game at this point,” O’Leary said.
Junior attacker Sammi Burgess joined 
Graziano and Ronbeck as the three UF players who scored multiple goals. Over-all, nine players scored for the Gators, including every starting attacker and mid-fielder.
 In addition, junior Carli Marsh and 
freshman Madi Hall came off the bench to 
score one goal apiece.
It was the second game in a row that 
all active players saw the field for Florida. 
O’Leary said that she was pleased with 
her team's performance, as the Gators out-
matched Marquette in shots, ground ball pickups, draw controls, clears percentage and free-position percentage.
“This team is on a roll,” she said.
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgLAX,  from pg 16Three UF players scored 
multiple goals on W ednesday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs on beam during Florida's win over North Carolina on March 11 in the O'Connell Center. UF will compete in the 
NCAA Championship Semifinals on Friday.
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016
The Univ ersity of Florida AHE C Program pr ovides y ou with all the  tools y ou nee d to quit!
Program covers all forms of tobacco.
Sponsored by the UF AHEC Tobacco Free Florida Cessation Program and the Florida Department of Health.
 More than DOUBLES your chances of success!
 Includes FREE nicotine patches/gum/lozenges!
 Convenient ON- and OFF-CAMPUS locations!
Call 352.265.9569 to ﬁnd out more.
Did You Know?
Learn to Live
Without Tobacco.
Help is FREE!
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Billy Donovan’s first regular 
season is over, and while his Okla-
homa City team has been overshad-
owed by the outlandish seasons 
of Golden State and San Antonio, he has had a record-breaking year himself.
The Thunder earned the third 
seed in the Western Conference with a 55-win season, making Don-ovan the winningest rookie coach to come straight from college to the 
NBA in league history. He passed 
Butch van Breda Kolff, who won 52 games in the 1967-68 season with the Lakers after leaving Princeton.
His point guard has also had a 
record-setting year. Russell West-
brook tied Magic Johnson’s mark 
of 18 triple-doubles in a season on Monday night, which is a record for the most since the NBA/ABA 
merger.
Bradley Beal, Wizards end 
underwhelming season
Washington guard Bradley Beal 
finished the 2015-16 season on a disappointing note, sitting out 
Wednesday’s season finale with a pelvis injury — a theme for Beal this year. The guard played in just 55 
games while dealing with multiple injuries, and the Wizards suffered along with him, missing the play-
offs in a year they were expected 
to be a force in the Eastern Confer-ence. 
The unhealthy campaign for 
Beal doesn’t help his stock going into an offseason in which he will 
be a restricted free agent.
Houston Rockets, Corey 
Brewer lock up final playoff spot
Corey Brewer managed just two 
points in 18 minutes in Houston’s final game of the season against Sacramento, but a 116-81 victory 
clinched the Rockets the last spot in the Western Conference play-offs.
The season was supposed to be 
one of title contention for Houston, but the team never gelled, strug-gling before and after the firing of coach Kevin McHale.
Brewer and company will be 
faced with the unenviable task of getting the first crack at the War-riors in the first round of the play-offs, where Brewer will face fellow 
former Gator Marreese Speights.
Al Horford, Atlanta Hawks 
lose earn home-court
Despite Al Horford’s 19 points 
and eight rebounds, the Hawks 
fell 109-98 on the final night of the season. However, the team still clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs and 
will host the Boston Celtics. 
Horford will be looking to use 
his 15.2 points, 7.3 rebounds, 3.2 
assists and 1.5 blocks per game av-
erage this season to help lead the 
Hawks back to the conference fi-nals for a second-consecutive cam-paign.
Alligator Sports copy editor Sky-
ler Lebron contributed to this report.
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.orgGators in the NBA: Donovan has record-breaking year
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Oklahoma City Thunder head coach Billy Donovan talks to his players during the first half of an NBA 
basketball game against the San Antonio Spurs on April 12 in San Antonio.
He led OKC to 55 wins