We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 56 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
UF soccer earns No. 1 seed in NCAA 
Tournament
The Gators face FGCU on Friday, pg. 13
‘I myself want to be proud to be an American again’
The thoughts of a Donald Trump supporter, pg. 8
‘If she’s not ready, then who is?’
The thoughts of a Hillary Clinton supporter, pg. 9Today is Election Day
Keep up with our coverage, @TheAlligator
THEY HAVE ANALYZED VOTING 
DATA IN FLORIDA AND THE U.S.
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
It was a package of information that ar-
rived in his mailbox Saturday that got Daniel 
Smith out of bed at 4 a.m., just a few hours 
after he went to sleep.
The package contained data on the num-
ber of Hispanic early voters in Florida. By 8 
a.m., after posting the highly coveted infor-
mation online, the UF political science pro-
fessor was on the phone with reporters from 
The New York Times and The Miami Herald.
“I’ve always been a skeptic who is very 
critical, and I just happen to turn my atten-tion to politics,” said Smith, who alone has 
been quoted more than 500 times by news outlets regarding his voting analysis.
Smith, 50, along with his colleague, UF 
professor Michael McDonald, has become a leader in the political sphere during this year’s presidential election. Together, they have a team of undergraduate and graduate students who help compile information rang-ing from voter-registration data to early vot-ing data. 
Leading up to the election, they’ve put out 
more than hundreds of statistics about early 
voters in Florida and the rest of the country. 
On their individual websites, ElectionSmith 
and Election Project, respectively, informa-
tion is updated almost constantly.
Even if it means losing sleep as he bal-ances his job with his passion, Smith said he feels responsible to help put out accurate in-formation about voting data.
“There just aren’t a lot of people who do 
what I do, so I kind of feel like I have an ob-ligation,” he said.
•   •   •
Smith grew up with politics in his blood.His mother ran for ofﬁ  ce in his hometown 
in Pennsylvania. In the 1980s, his grand-mother became mayor of Longboat Key, a 
town on Florida’s west coast, he said.
His father’s career as an academic led 
Smith to become more critical of politicians. 
Despite growing up surrounded by politi-cians, Smith said he could never see himself  In an unprecedented election, two UF 
professors become voices of reason  
HE IS BEING PAID $85,000.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
MLB All-Star Alex Rodriguez will be at UF 
next week. 
The former baseball player will be inter-
viewed by Ted Spiker, the chair of UF’s Depart-
ment of Journalism, on Nov. 15 for an Accent 
Speakers Bureau event in the Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts. The interview will begin at 8 p.m., and doors will open at 7 p.m. Afterward, 
the audience will have a chance to participate in 
a Q&A session with the athlete. Rodriguez is be-ing paid $85,000 to speak, said Accent Speakers 
Bureau chairman Mike Greenberg. 
The event is free and open to the public. 
Student tickets will be available at the Phillips Center’s box ofﬁ  ce at noon Monday. Remain-ing tickets will be available to the public at the 
box ofﬁ  ce at noon Nov. 15, Greenberg said. As of press time, there are no plans to live-stream 
the event.
Rodriguez, who played primarily for the 
New York Yankees until earlier this year, will talk about his personal and athletic story, 
Greenberg said. He said he believes Rodriguez has an interesting story to tell students. 
“I hope they’re able to gain some insight into 
someone who has fallen down and gotten back up,” Greenberg said. 
Dan Cohen, 20, was 5 years old when he 
ﬁ  rst watched Rodriguez play. When the UF psy-chology junior learned Rodriguez was coming 
to UF, he said he was excited to see him speak. 
“It’ll be kind of cool to see him so close up 
and see if he talks about his stuff in the past that troubled him and the things that he’s done 
that’s been questionable,” he said.  Accent Speakers Bureau to bring 
former Yankee Alex Rodriguez 
By T aylor Thelander
Alligator Contributing Writer
The lock clicked into place on the tall 
metal gate, and the room erupted with ex-
cited and restless howls.
Visitors could hardly hear their thoughts 
as the barks reverberated off the walls. As they walked through the kennel, a brown 
mix named Arya looked up with her one beautiful eye.
Since last year, adoptions at the Alachua 
County Humane Society, located at 4205 NW 
Sixth St., have increased dramatically, with 1,025 cats and dogs adopted between Janu-
ary and October compared to 765 adoptions 
during the same time last year.
“We essentially play matchmaker,” said 
Margot DeConna, the director of develop-ment at the shelter. “Often times, people will come looking for a speciﬁ  c breed or person-ality of a dog, but we can turn around and say, ‘We have the perfect dog for you.’”
DeConna attributes this to an increase in 
the variety of breeds and ages of animals it 
receives, as well as the shelter’s increased 
community outreach.
Because the shelter does not euthanize, 
animals who reside there will remain at the shelter until they are adopted. Adoption fees for dogs and cats range from $25 to $175 de-pending on the animal’s age.
Cody Ballard, 20, a UF marketing junior, 
volunteers for the shelter’s foster program. He said he was happy to see so many ani-
mals being adopted, some of which he had 
once cared for.
“It’s great to help the humane society 
adopt out such amazing animals,” he said.  Dog and cat adoptions increasing at county animal shelterAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Daniel Smith, a UF political science 
professor, poses for a picture in his ofﬁ  ce. Along with another professor, he has collected and made voting data publicly available in Florida for the upcoming election.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Accent Speakers Bureau staff members Alyssa Kobernick, a 21-year-old UF political science senior; Samantha Winder, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior; and Anne Redmond, a 22-year-old UF marketing senior, table on Turlington Plaza in celebration of Accent’s 50-year anniversary and upcoming speaker Alex Rodriguez.
SEE EXPERT,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood 
Drive hosted by LifeSouth 
Community Blood Centers will be held from today un-til Nov. 18. All blood donors 
will earn points for their chap-
ter and spirit points toward 
Dance Marathon 2017. Donors will also receive a free T-shirt 
and will help save a life. 
Bloodmobiles will be located at the Newberry Road Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lgbialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
iSTEAM Speaker Series pres-
ents USGS marine research ecologistAmanda Demopoulos, a USGS marine research ecologist, will speak at the Marston Science Library on Wednesday at 2 p.m., Room L136, which is on the first floor. Demopoulos has just returned from her lat-est ocean cruise and will speak on her experiences as a ma-rine ecologist who explored the deep oceans of the world. The iSTEAM Speaker Series presents topics of interest to students majoring in science, technology, engineering, the arts and/or math.
Interfaith Bridge Builders: 
Making newcomers neigh-bors Welcoming Gainesville will host a potluck dinner and pro-gram featuring groups devoted to understanding people of other faiths Thursday at 7 p.m. at Parkview Baptist Church, located at 3403 NW 13th St. Following the presentations, there will be an open discus-sion on the obstacles and pos-sibilities facing Gainesville res-idents who are trying to build bridges among local groups of different faiths. UF student leaders will report on inter-faith solidarity on campus, and Welcoming Gainesville will introduce programs aimed at responding to Islamophobia, anti-Semitism and racism.
Grace Marketplace Open House: 
'A Day of GRACE'Come hungry and enjoy a ca-tered lunch while listening to live music by The Jazz Bandits and Uptown Swing, or take a tour of Grace Marketplace’s 
local homeless shelter. Come 
prepared to do some Yoga 
and/or Zumba, receive a chair 
massage or participate in a pickup basketball game. Find 
out about the plan for a new 
social services center for low-
income-community residents, 
complete with a contemplative garden. Also find out about 
volunteer opportunities at their 
state-of-the-art shelter. The 
event is Saturday, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., at Grace Marketplace — just one block east of the 
intersection at Waldo Road 
and Northeast 39th Avenue. 
Contact Randi Cameon at rcameon@cox.net or 352-359-2603 for more information.
The Magic of Eugene Mullins: 
Crazy EscapesOn Monday and Nov. 15 at 7 p.m. at the the Hippodrome State Theatre, Eugene Mullins will follow in the footsteps of his childhood hero, Harry Houdini. Mullins is one of the top escape artists in the coun-try. He has captivated audienc-es with mind-blowing escapes and breath-taking magic. No lock can hold, no handcuffs can keep and no audience can resist Mullins as he leaves you breathless with his death-defy-ing escapes and mind-blowing magic.
‘Global Engagement Gator 
Style: My Fabulous Fulbright and Strategies for Successful Intercultural Communication’On Nov. 15, from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m., in the Music Building, Room 101, come to the last Fulbright event of this year in celebration of International Education Week. For his six month Fulbright Core Faculty Award, Ed Kellerman, a master lecturer in the Dial Center for Written and Oral Communications, taught inter-cultural communication and collected data at the Universiti Tenaga Nasional in Malaysia. This multimedia presentation will feature short, humorous videos and stunning photog-raphy, illustrating strategies to overcome intercultural barriers that involve appreciating cul-tural symbols, being involved with local families and using the Malay language effectively. To register, please visit goo.gl/h9gtyl. For more information, email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
VigilThe 4th Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil 
will be held Nov. 19 at the 
Survivors of Suicide Memory 
Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, 
located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 
p.m., with a ceremony begin-
ning at 5:45 p.m. This event 
is free and open to the com-munity, and refreshments will be provided. The vigil will be 
sponsored by the Friends of the 
Crisis Center and the Survivors 
of Suicide Support Group. For more information, please contact Donna Eckel at ragge-
dyds@aol.com.
International Education Week
Do you want to study abroad 
but feel uncertain about where to go, when to go or how to get started? If so, you are not alone, and your peers are ready to help. The International Program Student Ambassadors are holding a Study Abroad Social on Nov. 17 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Heavener School of Business, first-floor commons. There will be des-serts inspired by other coun-tries, language booths teaching you how to introduce yourself in a new language and a show-case of study abroad programs. Don’t miss out! Contact Andrea Kim, andrea.kim@warrington.ufl.edu with any questions. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  78° LOW  59°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 56
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
In front of a podium adorned with yellow, 
red and purple ﬂ  owers, the UF community 
honored the life of Abby Dougherty.
Several spoke, telling stories that brought 
laughs and memories that brought tears. 
They reminisced about her smile, her need 
for adventure and her love of sunsets.
Her father, Pat Dougherty, a Florida State 
University alumnus, sat in the front row, 
wearing a khaki UF cap and an orange Gators 
T-shirt to honor his daughter. He and about 
20 of Abby’s family members were among about 200 who gathered in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom for the UF memorial Monday night. After, those gathered had a candlelit processional to the Field and Fork Food Pan-try, where a memorial plaque will be put up in Abby’s honor.
Dougherty, a 20-year-old applied physiol-
ogy and kinesiology senior, was killed Oct. 28 by a garbage truck while riding her bicycle north of campus. During the ceremony, Abby was remembered as someone who helped hundreds as a member of Campus Diplomats, an employee of the Field and Fork Food Pan-try and a yoga instructor at UF RecSports.
Dr. Josie Ahlgren, Abby’s anatomy and physiology professor, said Abby didn’t origi-nally know what she wanted to major in at UF. When she declared an exploratory major her freshman year, she was asked to write down why for a survey.
“I’m just a youngin’ trying to ﬁ  gure out 
where I want life to take me,” Abby, then 18, wrote. “How can I know what career path I want when I haven’t experienced or seen half of what life has to offer? No pressure.”
But she wanted to use her degree to help 
others, she told her anatomy and physiology lab teaching assistant on a card he had Abby and her peers ﬁ  ll out to tell him a bit about themselves.
On it, Abby also shared her spirit animal. 
A sea turtle, she wrote, because “it is both majestic and bada--.”“A girl after my own heart,” Ahlgren said. Despite her smiles and bubbly attitude, 
Abby still had her struggles, her aunt Rosanne Cicanese said. But through her involvement in yoga at RecSports, she was learning how to cope with stress and let go of anger.
But seeing Abby upset was a rarity, friends 
said. Jake Kilgore, a 20-year-old UF business administration junior, said Abby was strong and positive and helped others be the same — something she succeeded in. 
“Live your life in a way that would make 
her proud,” he said. “If we can all do that, then we can turn this world into a place that can honor her memory forever and ever.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
 
 ‘Honor her memory forever and ever’: Vigil held for UF student 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Applied physiology and kinesiology professor Demetra Christou begins to cry outside of UF’s Field and Fork Food Pantry as she speaks about her former student, Abby Dough-erty, who was killed by a garbage truck on Oct. 28. Christou said she plans to give the pantry a card Dougherty wrote in her exercise physiology class, on which she wrote she would remember the information she learned forever.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Ashley St. Charles, a 20-year-old political science and international studies junior, stands surrounded by her fellow Campus Diplomats as they remember former member Abby Dougherty with an “om, ” a sacred sound in yoga, outside of UF’s Field and Fork Food Pantry. “All I can remember was just her laughing and smiling, ” St. Charles said of the last memory she has of Dougherty.She would have been 21 last week4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
By Morgan Rynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
As presidential election votes pour in to-
night, Midtown patrons will knock back pa-
triotic shots.
101 Cantina, located at 1632 W. Universi-
ty Ave., will host an “Election Day ‘16 Drink-ing Game” as a way to celebrate the end of a grueling campaign cycle between Democrat-ic candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican candidate Donald Trump.
Attendees are encouraged to dress in ei-
ther red or blue, representing Republicans or Democrats, respectively. As the election results of individual states are announced, members of the winning party will be given 
complimentary shots of alcohol, said Alex Thomas, the restaurant and bar’s owner, 
noting this is the first event of its kind at Cantina.
And if a president elect is chosen during 
the night, those dressed in the color of the winning candidate will be given free drinks for the rest of the night.
“I think it’s going to be fun to see what 
happens,” he said.
For those not backing either candidate, 
nonpolitical drink specials will be available, too.
Despite being in the midst of a highly po-
larizing election, Thomas said he didn’t ex-pect things to get out of hand.
“The people who are more serious stay at 
home,” he said.
Elsewhere, Burrito Brothers Taco Co. is offering a free Rolling Rock or Yuengling draft if presented with an “I voted” sticker. At The Swamp Restaurant, evidence of a bal-lot cast is good for free drinks, with either stickers or voter-registration cards accepted. Election coverage will be displayed on the bar’s TVs as bartenders whip up candidate-themed drinks.
“We’re trying to make it a very active and 
enjoyable atmosphere to watch the election results,” said Ryan Prodesky, the director of operations at The Swamp Restaurant.
Jordan Clements, a 24-year-old criminal 
justice junior at Santa Fe College, said after this year’s election, he could use some al-cohol.
“Drinking will cut the edge off of all of the 
stress associated with the election,” he said.At 101 Cantina, winning party’s voters drink for free
WHERE TO WATCH 
ELECTION RESULTS
• The Social at Midtown, 1730 W. University Ave.
• The Hippodrome State Theatre, 25 SE Second Place
• Gainesville Woman’s Club, 2809 W. University Ave.
• Civic Media Center, 433 S. Main St.
• First Magnitude Brewing 
Company, 1220 SE Veitch St.
becoming one.
To be able to work for a poli-
tician, “you kind of have to be a 
believer and drink the Kool-Aid,” 
he said.
After graduating from Pennsyl-
vania State University with a bach-
elor’s degree in political science and history, he received his mas-
ter’s and Ph.D. from the University 
of Wisconsin-Madison. By the time he joined UF’s faculty in 2010, he had already spent time analyzing politics abroad in Ghana as a Se-nior Fulbright Scholar.
Pedro Otalora, 20, is part of a 
group of undergraduate and gradu-ate students working with Smith and McDonald to compile informa-tion to create a national voter file.
“We’ve been putting out some 
very interesting information that no one else is doing,” the UF po-litical science and business junior said.
Through public records re-
quests, the goal of the project is to create a national voter file, which will have information regarding registered voters, he said. The pro-cess of collecting the basic infor-mation from registered voters will help researchers look for cases in which voter suppression may hap-pen.
“If the public doesn’t have ac-
cess to these public records, there’s no way to hold public officials ac-countable,” Otalora said.
Wendy Serra, 21, has worked 
with Smith for most of her college career.
The UF political science and 
English senior said she’s been able to begin identifying the small injus-tices in the voting system through working with him.
“He’s the election authority in 
Florida, and he happens to work here at the University of Florida,” Serra said. “We need professors like him that are really passionate about what they do.”
By allowing his students to be 
part of the data collection, Smith said he’s able to bring real-world politics into the classroom.
“I love what I do,” he said. 
“I’m a better teacher and I’m a better scholar because I actually care about the implications of the questions that I’m asking, and the questions I’m asking are driven by real-world politics.”
•   •   •
On Oct. 6, Smith took to Twitter 
to call out Florida Gov. Rick Scott.
After Scott refused to extend the 
voter-registration deadline follow-
ing Hurricane Matthew, Smith told 
him about how the last five days of 
2012’s voter registration had about 
50,000 new voters.
“Shame on @FLGovScott for 
not extending Oct 11 voter reg 
deadline; doing so would’ve al-
lowed FL to focus on #Matthew 
right now; VR could wait” he wrote 
after tweeting about 2012 presiden-
tial election voter-registration sta-
tistics.
The tweets were picked up by 
news outlets, and soon, a legal case 
against Scott and state officials 
challenged the decision. Smith 
provided data that proved extend-
ing the deadline would allow those 
who were forced to evacuate a 
chance to register.
“It seemed like the right thing to 
do, and I happen to have data to be able to make that case,” he said.
•   •   •  
For the past 10 days, Smith has 
averaged four-and-a-half hours of 
sleep a night, spending about 16 hours a day collecting, translating and putting out information on his blog. 
Despite years of experience, he 
said the 2016 presidential election has been like nothing he’s ever seen.
“I’ve gone 25 years of avoiding 
reality TV, and now I’m subjected to it every day as part of this 2016 presidential campaign,” he said with a sigh, “and it pains me.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org EXPERT,  from pg. 1He is making a voter file
THEY GAVE OUT SHIRTS THAT READ 
“I’M A TRAFFICKER” AND “I’M A 
DEALER, ” BUT ALL READ “I VOTE. ”
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A day before Election Day, UF students took a stand 
against negative stereotypes about the Hispanic com-
munity made by politicians and the media.
At around noon Monday, eight female members of 
the Hispanic Student Association stood in the middle of Turlington Plaza and said their names, majors and that they were Latina. The demonstration, Turn Ignorance 
Around, was held to break down stereotypes about the 
Hispanic community and to encourage Hispanic voters to go to the polls, said Edward Zambrano, the treasurer of HSA and organizer of the event. 
“Our whole entire goal of this demonstration is to 
make sure that we, as a community, go out and vote and express our opinions so that we’re no longer taken lightly,” the 20-year-old UF political science junior said. 
A small crowd formed around the group as some 
of the women raised their fists. The other demonstra-tors loudly repeated the offensive comments made by Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump and read statistics about Hispanic voters. 
The demonstrators wore T-shirts, some of which 
read “I’m a trafficker” or “I’m a dealer” on the front and “I’m a trafficker of knowledge” or “I’m a dealer of care” 
on the back. All of them read “I vote” on the back.  
The organization purchased over 400 T-shirts and handed them out for free to Hispanics and non-Hispan-
ics alike during the demonstration. 
“We’re a strong community that is unified,” Zam-
brano said. “We aren’t looking for handouts. We’re looking to better our lives just like everyone else.”
Mario Agosto, the president of HSA, said the orga-
nization wanted to host the event because immigration and discrimination have been controversial topics in the presidential election. The organization chose phras-es for the T-shirts that were said throughout the elec-tion, he said. 
“We are out here defeating these stereotypes,” the 
20-year-old UF criminology and law junior said. “We are no less than anybody else.” 
Mariana Castro, 22, said she saw HSA’s Facebook 
event and attended to get a T-shirt.
As she held her “I’m a dealer” T-shirt, she said she 
appreciated how the demonstrators talked about the undocumented population.
“I’m undocumented,” the UF neurobiological sci-
ences junior said. “What has been said this election has 
been unacceptable.”
She said she is in the U.S. through deferred action 
for childhood arrivals, an immigration policy set up by 
President Barack Obama. But she is scared the next president could repeal it.
“It’s insane that this is the rhetoric that we have to 
deal with,” she said, “but because of what has been said, people are very open to talking about it now.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF students protest election stereotypes
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Eight students stand in a line on Turlington Plaza and break down stereotypical labels associated 
with the Hispanic community. The demonstration, hosted by the Hispanic Student Association, was also aimed at encouraging observers to vote.
ELECTION 2016By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
Through a recent partnership between the 
Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention and 
the City of Gainesville, a group of about 30 ele-mentary-school students were selected to partici-pate in a hands-on science lab program.
Held inside the museum laboratory, the pro-
gram invited children from the Porters Communi-ty Center to take part in three sessions of creative learning, which involve creating bubble gum and sidewalk chalk.
“Nowadays it’s so hard for (children) to 
sit down and learn with books in front of their teacher, because there’s so much technology out there,” said Chauncy Walker, the director of rec-reation at the community center. “So, this actu-ally is a way to grasp their attention — grasp their interest — and make it fun and make them want to learn.”
The museum partnered with the Gainesville 
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Depart-ment to bring the program, which will end Dec. 6, to fruition. Gretchen Berissord, the administra-tive assistant at the museum, said the museum is 
looking for more funding to continue the program 
with another group of children.
“The hope was to pursue funding that allows 
us to bring more kids to the lab,” Berissord said. 
“We’re collecting that data to prove that, if you 
bring kids into the lab environment and get them 
in here, that their whole attitude about learning 
and science and all that can totally change,” she 
said.  By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Sarah, a 5-year-old retriever mix, 
watched as the Veterinary Commu-
nity Outreach Program revealed a 
mobile service to help dogs like her at shelters in North Florida. 
The program, run by UF’s Col-
lege of Veterinary Medicine, re-vealed a mobile surgical trailer Monday. Veterinary students will travel to shelters in rural North Florida to spay and neuter animals for free. 
Brian DiGangi, a faculty clini-
cian with the program, said the trailer was funded with $283,000 
from PetSmart Charity and $80,000 
from Petco Foundation, which pro-vided a year’s worth of surgical 
supplies. 
The mobile program will reach 
shelters that cannot bring animals to Gainesville, he said.
“It’s a huge burden for them to 
bring all the animals here,” DiGan-gi said. 
For dogs like Sarah, getting 
spayed or neutered can help them get adopted, said Jenny Apple-baum, the veterinary care manager for the program. She brought along the retriever mix to show how the 
service will help animals in shel-
ters. 
“Here’s one of our patients,” she 
said. 
Ashley Benson, a third-year UF 
veterinary student, will be part of the ﬁ  rst group of ﬁ  ve to perform surgeries in the trailer. She said there’s no ofﬁ  cial start date for the services, but the trailer should be operational in the coming months. 
She said she’s excited to partici-
pate. 
“It allows us to go to shelters 
and assist them with procedures and operations that they otherwise don’t have access to,” the 29-year-old said. 
@knewberg
knewberg@alligator.org TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
 UF College of Vet Med reveals mobile surgical trailer 
 Through museum partnership, 
GNV children participate in local laboratory learning
THE RESTRICTION IS A 
RESULT OF THE 
CHANGE IN SEASON. 
By Rebekah Dain
Alligator Contributing Writer
As of Sunday, Alachua County res-
idents are restricted to watering their 
lawns once a week.
The change in restriction, which 
occurs twice a year at daylight sav-ings time, is implemented and en-forced by the county, said Stacie 
Greco, the Alachua County Environ-
mental Protection Department water conservation coordinator. The State Water Management District sets the restrictions.
“The goal is water conservation 
and to help protect our groundwa-ter,” Greco said. “As the weather gets colder, people don’t need to water as 
much, so the state adjusts the restric-
tions.”
Greco said residents often reach out to the department to combat over-watering. 
“We get lots of calls from neigh-
bors, businesses and community members who call in to report that they see someone not following the restrictions,” Greco said. “We always 
investigate those cases.”
If residents do not comply, the 
EPD sends out a notice reminding the 
resident of the regulation. Greco said 
that if there is no change, it results in 
a $50 to $200 ﬁ  ne.
“With the public, we like to take 
the educational route to dealing with problems,” she said. 
Greco said residents are generally 
good about obeying the regulation because it helps the environment and helps them save money. 
William Graham, a Gainesville 
resident, said he has no problem with the restrictions.
“I’ve lived with this for quite a 
while and survived,” the 88-year-old 
said. “It’s for the good of the planet.”  Alachua County sets 
water use restrictions The new trailer received $363,000
WHAT THE CHILDREN HAVE LEARNED:
• Exothermic and endothermic reactions 
(used to make sidewalk chalk)
• Polymerization 
• Molecules and how they get together 
• Chemical and physical changesThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORNo. 3 (Tax exemption for disabled first responders): Vote YesThe passage of Amendment 2 would allow those who 
suffer from cancer, epilepsy, glaucoma, HIV/AIDS, post-
traumatic stress disorder, Lou Gehrig’s disease, Crohn’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and multiple sclerosis access 
to medical marijuana if prescribed from their physician. The science is overwhelmingly clear that their lives would 
be ameliorated overwhelmingly if they were granted access to medical marijuana. We encourage you all to show some respect, and vote “Yes” on Amendment 2 so as not to fur-
ther harm those already suffering from terrible conditions.
This constitutional amendment would allow first re-
sponders who are “totally and permanently disabled as 
a result of injuries sustained in the line of duty” to be re-lieved from certain taxes. We here at the Alligator believe those who serve us and our communities ought to be rec-ognized in a respectful manner. We are indebted to these individuals, and when one of these individuals is injured trying to protect, serve and help his or her fellow commu-nity members, it is a tragedy not only for that person and his or her family, but also for those who care about that individual. We urge you to vote “Yes” of this amendment as a way to recognize and express gratitude to those who have sacrificed more than we can ever imagine to keep our communities safe. Do not be deceived by the clever wording of Amend-
ment 1. Under the guise of giving eco-friendly electrical 
freedom to consumers and establishing the right to own 
or lease solar equipment — a right we already have — it really creates more power for the largest supporters of 
the amendment, the Consumers for Smart Solar, which is 
comprised almost entirely of utility companies that have invested over $25 million in making sure the amendment passes. In reality, all this amendment does is move pow-
er away from consumers and into the hands of those few 
companies, which plan on monopolizing the industry. Please, dear reader, vote “No” on Amendment 1. Doing 
so shows disapproval for monopolistic tendencies over 
an otherwise amazing and eco-friendly initiative.
This election has been anything but typical. It’s an election 
that has spawned questions that breach the core of the American spirit. Who are we as a nation? What direction is our nation headed toward? To whom will we offer our hands in aid, and against whom will we raise our arms in 
opposition? A simple answer to any of these questions is insuf-ficient. These questions are as complex as the society that asks them. We need to have the courage to embrace that complexity — no matter how strange, uncomfortable or morally question-able. In this election cycle, there is only one candidate with the courage to answer these questions with the respect, thoughtful-ness and honesty they deserve. That candidate is Hillary Clinton.
We know for most of our readers this endorsement does 
not come as a surprise, and we could easily reaffirm the be-
liefs Clinton supporters already have — the beliefs we have 
already voiced. Instead, this endorsement is for those who are either reluctantly voting for Trump or those whose political al-legiances remain undecided. If you’re against Clinton by virtue of her being a Democratic candidate, a Clinton or a (supposed) “establishment candidate,” we promise we have more to say than “She’s more fit to lead this nation because she is not Donald Trump.”
Clinton has accumulated over 40 years in public office. Such 
experience has made her familiar with multiple facets of both lo-cal and federal government. Moreover, she’s accumulated those 40 years as a woman — a demographic that has historically faced opposition in the field of politics. Politics is an uphill battle, and being a woman makes that incline even steeper. When Trump praised Clinton as “a fighter,” he was correct. She relentlessly pursues what she thinks is good.
When Clinton was first lady, she faced intimate difficulties 
with unparalleled toughness in her personal life alongside the 
professional and political pressures of her public office. In her 
political life, Clinton has drafted intricate proposals on issues like crime, race relations, college tuition, small-business incen-tives and climate change. In order for her to get the ball rolling on those issues, she’s going to need to work with a Republican Party that — it’s also worth noting — has serious qualms about supporting its own candidate. Working across the aisle will be incredibly difficult, but Clinton has shown she is more than ca-pable of doing so.
Don’t misconstrue our words: Clinton has made mistakes in 
her past. Like any other candidate running for the presidency since 1789, she is not without flaws. Her respect and understand-ing of the political process sometimes make her successes small and insignificant. Sometimes these delicately-taken steps have left her fumbling. While there is minor accuracy to the wrong-doings of her past, the image her opposition paints in light of these wrongdoings is a complete and total distortion of Clinton’s actual image. If anything, these have simply been revivals of the 
quintessential and absurd difficulties every politician faces and 
mistakes similar to those of her predecessors. 
The world is a complex place, and there is both beauty and 
difficulty to be found in that complexity. Instead of hiding from 
this difficulty, let’s have the courage as an electorate to face them. With that said, we here at the Alligator know Clinton is the only person on the ballot who is capable and courageous enough to lead our great nation into the future as she has demonstrated in the past.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
No. 2 (Medical marijuana): Vote YesNo. 1 (Solar energy choice): Vote No
No. 5 (Tax exemption for low-income seniors): Vote Yes
As it stands, the Florida Tax Code has some minor in-
consistencies in terms of how it taxes property. In 2012, 
Florida passed an amendment that allowed property-tax exemptions for residents aged 65 or older in a home that is worth less than $250,000 and a household income less than $25,000. But as the value of these homes rises, so does the assessed tax, which is unfair given that income remains the same. This amendment simply revisits this is-sue and would hopefully remedy the problem. We encour-age you to vote “Yes” on this amendment.ALLIGATOR AMENDMENT ENDORSEMENTS
Question One (Tax for county school programs): Vote Yes
This question expresses interest in maintaining suf-
ficient funding in Alachua County Public Schools. This funding would be granted to schools for use in art and music programs, for school nurses, for guidance counsel-ors, for library programs and for updating classroom tech-nology. Even if you are not a product of Alachua County schools, that does not mean you should not support the children growing up in this county. These programs and services are essential to the creativity and well-being of our younger students and future Gators. We urge you to vote “Yes” and support these amazing programs.
Question Two (Wild Spaces and Public Places): Vote For 
As Gainesville residents, we take pride in our city. 
Driving into Gainesville from any direction, it’s difficult to ignore the serene gorgeousness that surrounds our humble home. Voting “For” on this question affirms your belief that we should maintain environmental conscious-ness and allow the Alachua County Forever program to continue protecting our land, drinking water, water qual-ity and wildlife habitats. These things, we remind you, are some of the things that make our city so beautiful in the first place. The Alligator 
endorses Hillary 
Clinton for president
ALACHUA COUNTY QUESTIONSCONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTSTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
We here at the Alli-
gator support Kenneth 
“Ken” McGurn in his 
race for a seat in the U.S. House of Representa-tives. A veteran, a three-time Gator alumnus and a community builder (lit-erally as a general con-
tractor), McGurn knows Gainesville inside and out. Ken has been awarded over 60 lo-cal, state and national awards for projects and services that try to make Gainesville a better place for residents. He was partly responsible for the revitalization of down-town Gainesville, and he supported em-ployment initiatives that have made the unemployment rate of Alachua County one of the lowest in Florida. We believe Mc-Gurn is beyond qualified to speak on our behalf in the House of Representatives.We here at the Alliga-
tor encourage you to re-elect Sheriff Sadie Dar-
nell as Alachua County 
sheriff. Having served as 
sheriff since 2006, Dar-
nell is a UF alumna who understands this city in 
all of its intricacies. She 
worked with Gainesville Police from 1978 
to 2005, climbing easily to captain, until 
she was voted in as sheriff of Alachua 
County in 2006. She encourages her staff 
to understand the complexities mental ill-
ness brings to law enforcement. She has a 
track record of public safety that is unpar-
alleled, and we encourage you to support 
her today. 
We here at the Alliga-
tor support Marihelen 
Wheeler in her race for a 
seat in the Florida House of Representatives. While the minimum wage has not been adjusted for in-flation in many moons, Wheeler recognizes this 
dilemma and is persistent on resolving it. In terms of women’s health, she believes the government has no business in the personal decisions of women. In a district that is very concerned about environmen-tal questions, Wheeler encourages locals to stand up in the defense of waterways and agricultural lands that can’t defend themselves. We’re glad Wheeler was not discouraged in her 2014 loss when she ran for the same position, and that she is per-sistent enough to not give up on the district she cares so much about.We here at the Alliga-
tor support Rod Smith in 
his race for a seat in the 
Florida Senate. A Levin College of Law alumnus, Smith has been involved in the political scene here 
in Gainesville since he 
graduated from Levin in 
1975. In the realms of gun control and abor-
tion, Smith has expressed his opinions with the sensitivity and reason they deserve and a willingness to compromise that is essen-tial for any politician to have. Smith previ-ously represented us in the Florida Senate from 2001 to 2006 and did a fantastic job, stepping down in order to run for governor. We’re glad Smith is back on the ballot and urge a vote supporting his run for the state Senate.We here at the Alliga-
tor support Patrick Mur-
phy in his race for a seat 
in the U.S. Senate. A for-
mer Republican, Murphy left the party after he be-lieved them to be dishon-
est about the Iraq War, 
and he considers the party 
to have fallen into the hands of extremists. 
This honesty, insightfulness and steadfast-ness to his principles is admirable. In terms 
of positions, Murphy is pro-choice and is 
comfortable with LGBTQ+ lifestyles. We believe his experience in the U.S. House of Representatives, his ability to understand partisanship and his policy positions make him most qualified to represent us in the Senate.Reitz UnionAddress: 655 Reitz Union DriveWho votes here: UF undergraduate 
on-campus residence halls, excluding 
Infinity Hall
All fraternity houses on Fraternity Row Phillips Center for the Performing 
Arts
Address: 315 Hull Road
Who votes here: University CommonsOxford Manor Apartments
Gainesville Place 
The Enclave Apartments
Countryside at the UniversityStoneridge ApartmentsFlorida Museum of Natural History
Address: 3215 Hull Road
Who votes here: Hunter’s Run 
ApartmentsRidgemar CommonsCampus Lodge
Campus Club Apartments
Doyle Conner Building
Address: 1911 SW 34th St.Who votes here: Madison on 20th Apartments
The Pavilion on 62nd Apartments
The Woodlands of Gainesville
Spyglass ApartmentsHilton Garden InnAddress: 4075 SW 33rd Place
Who votes here: Cabana Beach 
Apartments
Windmeadows ApartmentsParamount Plaza HotelAddress: 2900 SW 13th St.Who votes here: Infinity HallSocial 28Boardwalk ApartmentsSorority houses south of University AvenueFirst Lutheran ChurchAddress: 1801 NW Fifth Ave.Who votes here: Delta Tau Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha and Delta Upsilon fraternities
UF and Chomp the Vote will be 
providing Student Nighttime Auxiliary  Patrol van transportation to six off-campus voting precincts. Chomp the 
Vote and SNAP vans will leave from 
the McCarty bus loop. 10 a.m.: Precincts 44 and 39 12 p.m.: Precincts 5 and 26 
2 p.m.: Precincts 25 and 59 
Bring a valid photo ID, including driver's license, student ID or passport.
Precinct locations by 
apartment complex and residence hall Alligator Candidate Endorsements
US House of Representatives US Senate
Florida State Representative Florida State RepresentativeAlachua County Sheriff
Florida State SenateMurphy
Smith
 Wheeler
McGurn
 Darnell
Krispy Kreme
306 NW 13th Ave. — free doughnut 
with “I voted” sticker
Mi Apa Latin Cafe of Gainesville
114 SW 34th St. — free medium cafe 
con leche with sticker
Burrito Brothers T aco Co.
1402 W. University Ave. — free beer with sticker
The Swamp Restaurant
1642 W. University Ave. — buy-one-get-one-free drinks for first round with sticker or voter registration card
101 Cantina
1632 W. University Ave. — free drinks for patrons dressed in red or blue, de-pending on how states vote and who the president elect is
Jeremy Lawrence 
Bullard has been serving 
the Floridian community 
since 1985 when he be-gan a career in law en-forcement. He continued working in law enforce-ment until 2010 when he retired with the rank of 
captain. He has an understanding of the importance of education as the husband of a public school teacher and a product of the public school system himself, and he understands how education consequen-tially makes the job of law enforcement a lot easier. Bullard has a history of keeping our communities safe by getting to the root of the problem, and for that reason, we en-courage you to support him as your State Representative. 
Bullard
If democracy isn't enough of 
an incentive...8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
By Max Chesnes
Alligator Contributing Writer
During presidential elections, 
John Davis, 67, usually supports 
the Democratic candidate. 
But after years of frustration 
with the Clinton family, Davis is 
jumping from blue to red. 
Exhausted from years of scan-
dal, Davis said he decided to vote for Donald Trump after Hillary 
Clinton was named the Demo-
cratic nominee. His decision was 
made with the nation’s future at 
the forefront of his mind, he said.For the past 16 years, Da-
vis has lived in Gainesville with 
his jet-black cat, Mr. Sampson. Five Trump-Pence signs stand in 
his yard, with another reading 
“Never Stop Me From Rattling 
Cages with the Truth” — one of two signs he made himself out of cardboard.
With tears in his eyes, Davis 
said he’s upset with the nation for allowing Clinton to gain traction despite her scandals. Because Da-vis is blind in one eye, a friend 
writes Davis’ thoughts about his 
dissatisfaction with politics on scraps of notebook paper every 
day. 
“There are nicer guys,” he 
said of Trump, with Ben Carson and Paul Ryan having been his first choices. “I myself want to be proud to be an American again.”
In the days leading up to the 
election, Davis said he has found it hard to sleep. He said the fears of a corrupt commander in chief riddle his mind.
“I’m worried about what will 
happen on Election Day,” he said, “but we’ll just have to wait and see.”‘I myself want to be proud to 
be an American again’
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
John Davis, 67, is moved to tears while he explains his concern about upcoming results of the 2016 presidential election. “There are nicer guys, ” he said. Davis said he would have preferred better candidates, like Ben Carson or Paul Ryan. However, he said he would rather vote for Trump — who he considers honest — than for the Clintons, “nasty and dirty as they are. ”
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
“Neither Hillary or Bill has any conscious, nothing is below them, ” John Davis recited from a piece of paper. From time to time, the 67-year-old Trump supporter dictates his thoughts to an interpreter. “Michel [sic] Obama said she could never be so proud to be an American as when her husband took the White House 8 years ago, ” he said. “I myself want to be proud to be an American again, until I see Mr. Trump take the Oval Office. ”
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Every morning, John Davis, 67, reads the National Enquirer and the Daily Mail on his smartphone. In his pocket, Davis keeps a copy of the National Enquirer with the front page headline reading “Hillary: Corrupt! Racist! Criminal!”
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
John Davis, 67, stands next to three Donald Trump campaign signs in his backyard while wearing a shirt that says “Hillary sucks but not like Monica, ” referring to Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky. “Go ahead, take this sign too, I’ll put twice as many up, ” reads one of the many signs Davis keeps in front of his house.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
When Bill Clinton visited Gainesville on Saturday, 
Ed Kellerman got the former president to sign his fa-
vorite shirt. 
When the 64-year-old UF master lecturer met Bill 
Clinton, he handed him a frame full of political but-tons, one of which he created.
“I feel privileged he has one of my buttons now,” 
Kellerman said. 
The second floor of the Gainesville resident’s house 
is decorated in memorabilia, mostly from presidential elections, ranging from buttons and bobbleheads to banners and trinkets. The trinkets, some of which are about a decade old, span the political spectrum, but he considers himself a Democrat. 
Kellerman said he remembers when Bill Clinton visited UF in 1992, a scene he captured with a camera and put onto one of the buttons he gave to Bill Clinton 
on Saturday.
Cardboard cutouts of former presidents sit in his 
house, along with two lifesize cutouts of Hillary Clin-
ton. He has a blue cone that reads “Holler for Change” and a beer can that reads “Billary Beer.”
On Wednesday, the day after the election, he said 
he plans on bringing both of the cutouts of Hillary Clinton to one of his classes to show support for her presidency.
Kellerman said Hillary Clinton’s background as sec-
retary of state proves she has the diplomacy skills to succeed as the next president.
“If she’s not ready, then who is?” he said.
@melissagomez004
mgomez@alligator.org‘If she’s not ready, then who is?’
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Ed Kellerman, 64, holds a ticket from former President  Franklin D. Roosevelt’s 1935 Homecoming Celebration in Atlanta. Kellerman collects buttons, banners, posters cutouts, press passes and tickets from political events.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Ed Kellerman climbs the stairs of his house to his collection. “If you ask me where my politics interest comes from, it comes from there, ” Kellerman said, pointing to a photo of the Kennedys taken in 1962.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Kellerman, a Santa Fe College professor and UF public-speaking professor, keeps a “Billary Beer” can among his political collection, made for Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Ed Kellerman, a Hillary Clinton supporter, explains the origin of his political buttons. Kellerman hired a former student of his to help organize his collection, which is now in alphabetical order. “Nothing is worth more than $5, ” Kellerman said while walking around his 10-year-old political collection.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new 
BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/
ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-14-
16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Live Next to Campus
Big, clean, furnished room in 3/1.
$567/mo. UF Law housemates.
Call Connor: 904-718-5943      11-8-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     10-31-16-5-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
PT cleaners needed for home/apt/office cleanings ..day and night positions available. $ 8.50/hr weekly pay &must own a reliable car and be able to pass a drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868    11-8-5-14JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Catnip or
coriander
5 Throw in the
towel
9 Former “Idol”
judge Paula
14 Old music halls
15 Loosen, as laces16 Author John le __17 Out of control18 Road in old Rome19 Martial arts-based
fitness routine
20 *Old West
transport
23 British brew with a
red triangle in itslogo
24 “Oops, almost
forgot”
25 Captain Marvel’s
magic word
27 Felt sorry about
29 Workable, as an
alternative
32 Good-and bad-
dietary
substances
35 Consumed38 Jiffy Lube supply39 __ Fáil: Irish
“stone of destiny”
40 *Trailways, for
one
42 Big fuss
43 Pennysaver
contents
44 “Family Matters”
nerd
45 Kenton of jazz
46 Making a cake,
say
48 DVR pioneer51 Charlatans
54 Shoe polish
targets
58 Molecule part
60 Having financial
freedom ... and,literally, what thelast words of theanswers tostarred cluescomprise
62 Bouquet __:
chef’s tasty
bundle
64 Retail complex65 Took a tumble66 One sent back
down the river?
67 “Metamorphoses”
poet
68 Russian river
69 Loses on
purpose?70 Nickname for
José
71 A great deal
DOWN
1 “In what way?”
2 Novelist Wharton
3 Race with batons
4 Annoys
persistently
5 Pielike brunch
serving
6 Golden rule word
7 “Any more 
bright __?”
8 Olympic symbol9 Play a part
10 Words to a black
sheep
11 *Handsome guy
or gorgeous gal
12 Metro regions13 Many August
babies
21 Water in the
Seine
22 Place of safety26 Kindle read, briefly28 Furniture with a
lock, maybe
30 “__ Rose”: “The
Music Man” song
31 North Carolina
campus
32 Personal trainer’s
target33 Verdi princess
34 *Temporary
group for aspecific job
36 23-Across, e.g.37 Lean40 Camp bed41 Impulses45 Deeply
expressive
47 Emphatic denial49 Wagner princess50 48-Across
ancestor52 Swab again53 Avoid, with “off”55 Sporty ’80s
Pontiac
56 Note equivalent 
to E
57 Flies off the 
shelf
58 Like much
whiskey
59 Prepare for
takeoff
61 Toss of a coin63 Elected pols
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/08/1611/08/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 8, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-8-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.19 Connections 24 Pets
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
"It's the University of Florida. You get a degree from here, 
you can get a job anywhere. I can be an astronaut."
Florida linebacker Daniel McMillianUF Coach Roland Thornqvist 
summed up the women's tennis team's Fall season on Monday. Read the story, pg. 16By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
After winning the program’s 12th 
Southeastern Conference Tournament Championship, Florida was named a No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament on Mon
-
day.
The Gators joined South Carolina, Stan -
ford and West Virginia to round out the tournaments top seeds. 
Florida (15-4-1, 8-3 SEC) will host the 
Florida Gulf Coast Eagles in the first round on Friday.
“It’s cool to be a No. 1 seed,” senior for
-
ward Savannah Jordan said. 
“But I'm also excited to play Florida 
Gulf Coast this weekend. … I know they're a good team. They are always super com
-
petitive, super aggressive. So I'm looking forward to what they bring Friday.”
Florida earned its top seed from its 
dominating performances in the second half of the season.
The Gators recorded seven shutouts in 
their 11 games and only lost once.
They also knocked the nation’s No. 2 
team, South Carolina, out of the SEC Tour
-
nament, handing the Gamecocks their first loss of the season.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
When Luke Del Rio couldn’t 
lift his duffle bag after Saturday’s game, Jim McElwain knew some-thing was wrong.
“He’s a tough guy. Never said 
anything,” McElwain said. “Had I known the severity, (I) probably wouldn’t have (kept him in the game).”
On Monday, Del Rio and at 
least three other UF starters were ruled out for Saturday’s game against South Carolina, including starting linebackers Alex Anzalone 
and Jarrad Davis. Two other play-
ers are listed as highly question-
able with another listed as a game-time decision.
But the news of Del Rio, who 
has played in six games this sea-
son and has been the team’s clear-
cut starter under center when he has been healthy, could be the biggest blow to a Florida team still 
leading the Southeastern Confer-
ence Eastern Division with just 
two conference games remaining.
“Sometimes you have to be 
honest. He was banged up. Played that way,” McElwain said of Del Rio. “And, you know, looking at myself in the mirror, we should have made a change at halftime.”
McElwain said it will be an 
open competition in practice this 
week despite backup quarterback Austin Appleby having much 
more experience than UF’s other 
two quarterbacks: freshmen Kyle Trask and Feleipe Franks. 
Appleby has played in four 
games this season and has thrown for 470 yards, three touchdowns and one interception while com-pleting 61.1 percent of his passes.
Franks and Trask haven’t taken a meaningful in-game snap since high school.
But McElwain wouldn’t rule out any possibilities. He said he once started a freshman quarter-back late in the season at Montana State: Rob Compson, who started 
three games near the end of the 
1995 season.
McElwain said Appleby will 
receive the first snaps in practice, 
THE FLORIDA 
FOOTBALL INFIRMARY
Players ruled out for 
Saturday’s game
• QB Luke Del Rio (shoulder)
• LB Jarrad Davis (ankle)
• LB Alex Anzalone (arm)
• C Cameron Dillard (leg/knee)
• RB Mark Herndon (hamstring)
Highly questionable
• WR Tyrie Cleveland
• WR Chris Thompson
Game-time decision
• DL CeCe Jefferson (foot)
 GAME INFO
Who:  No. 1 seed Florida vs FGCU
What:  NCAA T ournament first round
When:  Friday at 7 p.m.
Where: Donald R. Dizney StadiumNotebook: Florida football decimated by injuries after loss
The list includes Del Rio, who won't play Saturday
Florida soccer earns No. 1 
seed in NCAA Tournament
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
NO. 6 FLORIDA VOLLEYBALL 
HAS WON 10-STRAIGHT SEC 
MATCHES.
By Skyler Lebron 
Sports Writer
No. 6 Florida is standing tall in the latter 
portion of its Southeastern Conference sched-
ule. 
The Gators have rattled off 10-straight 
wins in the conference, with eight of them 
coming in three-set sweeps. They remain the 
only team in the SEC without a true road loss. 
They also lead the conference in hitting 
percentage, opponent hitting percentage, as-sists per set, kills per set and blocks per set. Due to all of that, they now sit atop the con-ference standings, sharing the lead with the Missouri Tigers.  
With only five matches remaining on the regular-season schedule, an entire year’s 
worth of development has been showcased to 
both the coaching staff and the fanbase. 
Coach Mary Wise has evaluated every 
player on UF’s roster, and she is impressed with where the team has gone since late Au-gust.
“The signs of the great teams are their 
ability to get better over the course of a sea-son,” Wise said Monday. “It’s probably where 
I’m most proud of this team. The resilience 
they’ve shown.” 
Coming into the year, the Gators had to re-
place five seniors. Out came a slew of veteran experience, and in came a group of young, in-experienced players who had yet to develop chemistry with each other.
“We had a first-time libero, a first-time set-
ter,” Wise said. “These were a lot of first time 
things.” 
However, after months of seeing the team, Coach proud of season-long 
development from Gators
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio stands on the sideline during Florida's loss to T ennessee on Sept. 24. Del Rio will be out 
for Saturday's game with a shoulder injury, making way for an open competition at quarterback.
14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
but he will evaluate all three play-
ers during the week.
(I’ve) been doing this a long 
time,” McElwain said. “(I’ve) been on both ends of that where they’re ready to put you in Ferris Bueller’s parade, and then when they’re ready to hang you after a loss. So I get it. That’s business for you.”
Who will step up at lineback-
er?
Eight games into the season, 
Florida’s biggest strength has turned into its biggest question mark: its linebackers.
McElwain said Anzalone, a red-
shirt junior, had surgery on his arm on Monday and will be out for the foreseeable future. Davis, a senior, has been nursing an ankle injury for several weeks and will also be out for Saturday’s game, and McElwain said he doesn’t know when Davis will return.
Davis and Anzalone were the 
leaders of UF’s defense and led the team in tackles with 56 and 53, re-spectively.
They were also the two play-
ers responsible for calling out defensive plays during the game and making audibles at the line of scrimmage. With both sidelined, 
senior defensive lineman Joey Ivie 
said that responsibility may fall on freshman linebacker David Reese.
“It’s going to be difficult at first. 
(Davis) is the heart of the defense. Alex, he’s had an unbelievable year.” Ivie said. “It’s definitely a kick to the defense.”
McElwain said the linebacker 
void will be filled by Reese, se-nior Daniel McMillian, freshman Vosean Joseph, redshirt freshman Kylan Johnson and redshirt junior Cristian Garcia. 
Of that group, Reese is the only 
player with more than 13 tackles this season.“Like they always say: man 
down, man up,” McMillian said. “The young guys just gotta step up and go hard in practice like they’ve always been doing.”
Agony in Arkansas:When asked to identify the 
most disheartening aspect of Sat-urday’s 31-10 loss to Arkansas, 
McElwain paused for a moment 
before answering.
“How long do we have?” he 
asked.
McElwain said that Arkansas, 
which was coming off of a bye week, won the battle at the line of scrimmage and physically domi-nated UF’s linemen.
The Razorbacks had one of 
their most successful running at-tacks of the season against Flori-da’s defense. Arkansas’ Rawleigh Williams rushed for 148 yards, his second-highest total of the year, and two touchdowns.
“Just the way they took it to 
us physically. Give them credit, 
they used that off-week and used 
it well,” McElwain said. 
"That, I think, was really disap-
pointing.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg.13Jarrad Davis and Alex Anzalone are UF 's leading tacklers
the intimidation the lack of experi-ence brought is a distant memory. Nearly every facet of this Florida team has worked as it was designed.
Outside hitter Shainah Joseph 
came into the year knowing she wouldn’t be playing her natural posi-tion on the right side. After redshirt-ing her junior year, there were ques-tion marks.
But through 24 matches, Joseph 
has not only become an offensive weapon but also a defensive stal-wart. She's accumulated 35 total 
blocks, which is the second most 
from a hitter behind senior Alex Holston.
“What she gives us in terms of a 
blocking presence and how physi-cal she is ... we see the progress she keeps making each week,” Wise said.
Transfers Allie Monserez and 
Caroline Knop have weaved them-selves seamlessly into an extremely strong offensive system, with both playing pivotal roles to its success. And long with other role players, 
the Gators have seen improvement from their main offensive trio of Holston, Rhamat Alhassan and Carli Snyder. 
Holston, the lone senior on the 
team, has been particularly impres-sive, leading the team with 286 kills and 328 total points. And with how often she attacks, Holston has largely improved her ability to attack with-
out committing errors. In four of the 
last five matches, she has not com-mitted an error. 
While Wise has been satisfied 
with Holston’s play, it has been her demeanor off the court that leaves a lasting impression.
The team plans to honor Holston’s 
UF career during the second match 
of its weekend homestand against 
South Carolina and Alabama.
“She is the most low mainte-
nance, greatest talent player I’ve ever coached before,” Wise said. “Although I’ve tried not to think of what it’s like after Alex (leaves).”
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg.13UF will honor Holston“We have definitely known all 
along what we are capable of,” se -
nior midfielder Meggie Dougherty 
Howard said. 
“And I think we're just starting 
to put all the pieces together and just really believing in ourselves and showing that and having that 
confidence when we play.”
But Florida will face a big test 
in the first round.
The  matchup against the Ea
-
gles will feature a battle between 
the NCAA's two active leaders in both goals and points.
Jordan leads both categories 
with 80 goals and 187 points, but FGCU forward Tabitha Tindell is a close second with 66 goals and 162 points.
“We’re really excited about being home, especially after be
-
ing on the road all last week,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “Gulf Coast is a tough opponent. We 
seem to see them a lot and I think 
that they are really well coached."
This will be the Gators’ 20th 
appearance in the NCAA Tourna
-
ment since the program started 
in 1995, only failing to qualify in 2002.
If Florida beats FGCU, it will 
host the winner of the Wisconsin-Marquette match in the second round.
“(FGCU) is always going to 
be ready to play,” Burleigh said. “They are a tough out for sure. I mean, that’s a really good first round game.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg.13Savannah Jordan leads UF 
with 80 goals this season
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Meggie Dougherty Howard (28) shoots the ball as Savannah Jordan (7) looks on during Florida's 6-0 
win against Alabama on Oct. 20. Friday will mark UF's 20th NCAA T ournament appearance.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alex Holston (3) and Rhamat Alhassan (1) attempt a block at the net during Florida's 3-0 win against Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Athletic Center. Holston leads UF with 286 kills.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2016
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
RUN DATE DEADLINEIN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAY
NOVEMBER11TH
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
Relaxed, conﬁ  dent and handling 
their business. 
Those are just a few of the ways 
UF coach Roland Thornqvist de-
scribed how his players competed 
through the Fall season, which end-
ed this past weekend.
Junior Anna Danilina headlined Florida’s success this weekend, cap-
turing both the singles title and the doubles title with senior Spencer Li-ang at the Dick Vitale Intercollegiate Clay Court Classic in Lakewood Ranch on Sunday.
Danilina won all of her matches 
from the quarterﬁ  nals on in just two 
sets, including her ﬁ  nals matchup 
against Virginia Tech’s Elena Cer-ezo-Codina, where Danilina won 6-3, 6-4.
Her dominance was a nod to 
her improvement from last season, when Danilina boasted an overall singles record of 30-7.
“She’s gotten more comfortable 
being uncomfortable,” Thornqvist said. “Last year she tended to freak 
when it was even, and now she stays 
composed and solves these little rid-dles. And subsequently, you see a 
greater performance and more suc-
cess against better players.”
Meanwhile, Josie Kuhlman and 
Belinda Woolcock traveled to New York to compete in the USTA/ITA 
National Indoor Championships, an 
environment boasting the top play-
ers in the country.
Kuhlman reached the singles 
quarterﬁ  nals before losing 6-2, 6-2 to Duke’s Meible Chi, while Woolcock 
reached the singles consolation quar-terﬁ  nals. The duo  also competed to-gether in doubles, reaching the quar-terﬁ  nals of the draw before losing in three sets to Oklahoma State.
“It’s a little different for the Flor-
ida Gators to roll up there since we 
don’t play indoors,” Thornqvist said. 
“You have true bounces, usually a little bit of faster surfaces inside too, 
so the speed of play is faster so it 
beneﬁ  ts the player who hits the ball 
harder.”
Kuhlman did just that, getting 
power and velocity behind her hits 
that Thornqvist said has improved 
over the last two years. He also said 
that because of this power, the ju-
nior was able to help out in differ-ent ways in her doubles play with Woolcock.
“I think [Kuhlman] has new 
power from the ground and has been able to free up Belinda at the net, so their doubles play has improved be-cause of that,” Thornqvist said.
However, Thornqvist said the in-
juries Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan sustained in the Fall that kept the two out of tournaments casts a “little bit of doubt” as to how the team will perform when the Spring season begins in January.
But with the success seen this 
past weekend and throughout the Fall, Thornqvist has one thought about the Spring season.
“I look upon the spring as a great 
opportunity for us to have yet anoth-er great year,” he said.
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org  UF women’s tennis ends Fall season on positive note
Danilina, Kuhlman were among the standouts 
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Josie Kuhlman returns a ball during the 2016 ITA Regionals at the Ring T ennis Complex in Gainesville.
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Anna Danilina watches the ball during the 2016 ITA Regionals in Gainesville.  Danilina won both the singles and doubles title in her last Fall tournament. 
