We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 29 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
Florida vs. Vanderbilt: A Q&A with 
the opponent
We discuss the Gators’ matchup this weekend,
pg. 13
GNV restaurants to serve lionﬁ  sh 
The invasive species will be served for a month, pg. 5
Walk to raise money for Alzheimer’s research
It will be held Saturday, pg. 5UF students, GNV cafes celebrate
National Coﬀ  ee Day
There were discounts and limited-edition
buttons,  pg. 3
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
WATER IS LIFE
Retirees Cindy Noel, 52, and her husband, Mike Roth, 65, protest the Sabal Trail Pipeline in the rain 
at the intersection of University Avenue and Main Street on Thursday. “This is just our desperate attempt, ” Roth said about hoping to save his land from being degraded near the Santa Fe River.
LOCAL
LOCALBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
When Rusty the Clown heard 
about the latest “creepy clown” 
sighting, this time in Gainesville, 
he was uncharacteristically una-mused.
On Tuesday, a woman report-
ed seeing someone dressed as a clown and scaring her near her Northwest 16th Street apartment, Gainesville Police said. Rusty, whose real name is James Gor-
gans, said these “creepy clowns” 
spread a negative perception about his profession.
“It’s a tragedy,” Gorgans said, 
“because it’s trying to show that clowns are scary and frightening 
and all the things we aren’t.”
On Tuesday, at Georgetown Apartments, the woman noticed 
someone dressed as a clown star-ing at her in silence, said GPD 
spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
“When she looked at it, it tilted 
its head in what she described a creepy manner,” Tobias said.
She called the police, but the 
clown left before ofﬁ  cers arrived, he said. 
Sightings of unknown people donning clown masks began cir-
culating the internet in early Au-gust after being spotted in South 
Carolina. On Sept. 22, the clowns 
reached Ocala. On Tuesday, Gainesville.
Tobias said it was a matter of 
time before someone brought the act to Gainesville. Earlier this 
week, residents at Village Green 
Apartments told police they saw four men dressed as clowns pack 
into a van.
One of his biggest concerns 
is someone scaring a concealed-weapon holder, he said. If a per-
son perceives a threat, they may be within their rights to shoot.
“What started out as a prank 
could result in somebody being seriously injured or even killed,” Clown frustrated after creepy clowns spotted in GNV
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College police ofﬁ  cers 
will get body cameras in the next 
year.
On Tuesday, the Department 
of Justice announced it awarded a 
$28,000 body-camera grant to the 
Santa Fe College Police Depart-ment. Of the 33 departments across the country that received the grant, 
Santa Fe was the only one in Flor-
ida. 
The college will match half of 
the money, totaling about $50,000, toward the body cameras. The col-lege’s money will give Santa Fe Po-lice time to research different body cameras, train ofﬁ  cers in how to use them and provide professional de-velopment resources, said Santa Fe 
Police Chief Ed Book.
Book said he wants to get enough 
cameras to outﬁ  t up to 17 ofﬁ  cers. 
Funding for the one-year grant 
will become available in October, 
he said. The ﬁ  rst few months will be spent researching what cameras to buy and how to store the video footage.
University Police has been look-
ing into getting body cameras for the last two years, said UPD spokes-man Maj. Brad Barber.
He said the department is look-
ing to apply for more grants and sources of funding for its 89 ofﬁ  cers.
“It would be quite expensive,” 
he said.Book applied for a similar grant 
last April because he said he wanted to offer transparency to the UF com-munity and build trust.
“Why not get ahead of that and 
say, ‘Look, we trust you, we want you to trust us,’” Book said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgSanta Fe College PD awarded grant to receive body camerasSTUDENTS GRASP FOR 
SOLUTIONS BEYOND 
DIALOGUE 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Micah E. Johnson was 14 when 
he stared down the barrel of a gun.
He was walking down the 
streets of his Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, neighborhood with his older brother when a cop car pulled over behind them. 
He remembers multiple ofﬁ  cers 
stepping out. Guns were drawn. And Johnson, a now-UF sociology doctoral student, stood in fear. 
“We never knew what they 
suspected us of,” the 31-year-old said. “They would just point the guns at our heads.”
As the nation struggles to un-
derstand the deaths and acts of police brutality against the black community, UF students and the city of Gainesville are looking for answers. Student organizations have held meetings, and demon-strations have been hosted in an effort to provoke conversation and demand change. 
Through meetings and pro-
tests, the residents of Gainesville 
want to send the same message: 
They are tired of talking — tired 
of dialogue. 
For Johnson, it was a reality he 
grew up in. The issues of police 
brutality against the black com-
munity have existed for a while.
“It makes you crazy a little 
bit,” he said. “It gets under your 
skin. It’s painful.”
•   •   •
Robert Dentmond was shot and 
killed after a stand-off with police 
ofﬁ  cers in March at an apartment complex in Gainesville. 
He was 16.Ibram Kendi, a UF professor 
in the African American Studies Program, said Dentmond lived down his street. He had lived in Gainesville for eight months when Dentmond died. He saw no jus-Looking for Answers SEE CLOWNS,  PAGE 4
SEE COMMUNITY,  PAGE 8Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  68°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights: Carnival    
GatorNights is hosting a carnival 
tonight. Test your skee-ball or milk-bottle knockdown skills in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
Climb aboard a pirate ship ride 
or face off against a mechanical alligator. The Hispanic Heritage Month Fiesta will also be tak-ing place in the Grand Ballroom and will feature food, music and dancing. Catch either the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of the newest “Ghostbusters” movie in 
the Reitz Auditorium, and join us 
in the food court at midnight for a nacho bar at Midnight Munchies. GatorNights is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards.
Gay Movie Night
The Pride Community Center presents Green Briefs tonight at 
7:30 p.m. at 3131 NW 13th St.  
A collection of five gay-themed short films filled with family drama will be shown. Gay Movie Night is on the last Friday of ev-ery month and is a free service provided by the Pride Community Center. A $2 donation is request-ed to help cover cost of snacks.
Art Walk: 'Dream a Little Dream'
Tonight from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. relive ageless romance in "Dream a Little Dream." Snacks and bev-erages will be provided. During Art Walk, the Hippodrome State Theatre offers a variety of visual art by members of the Gainesville 
Fine Arts Association. Love and 
romance cater to the central themes of the exhibit "Dream a Little Dream." The Hippodrome gallery features exquisite work ranging from photography to gi-clee, oils and acrylics.
‘The New Mrs. Tesman’
The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The New Mrs. Tesman,” a fresh interpretation of Henrik Ibsen’s classic drama “Hedda Gabler." Performances will be held in the Black Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion until Sunday. For information on per-
formances times, visit arts.ufl.
edu. Tickets are available through the University Box Office.
Florida Museum photography
Snap the picture of a lifetime Saturday and Sunday from 8 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. in the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Butterfly Rainforest. During this event, use a tripod and other 
equipment not usually permitted 
inside the exhibit. The fee is $25 for museum members and $30 for nonmembers. Pre-registration is required. Visit flmnh.ufl.edu/butterflyfest/whats-happening/workshops or call 352-846-2000 for more information.
Argentine Tango Classes
Join the UF Argentine Tango Club for free tango classes at all levels. 
Classes will take place Sunday 
in Dance Studio A at the Reitz Union. The lesson will begin at 6:15 p.m. followed by an interme-diate/advanced class at 7:15 p.m. Be sure to dress comfortably. No special shoes are necessary. If you have any questions, visit facebook.com/groups/uftango.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releas-es will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or 
email editor@alligator.org.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 29
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
By Sarah Coleman
Alligator Contributing Writer
Walking through Plaza of the 
Americas on Thursday, some stu-
dents created a map of Florida us-ing coffee beans. Others posed for photos holding signs that read “I love you a latte.”
To celebrate National Coffee 
Day, the UF Social Street Team held a ﬁ  ve-hour caffeine-themed event. Off campus, local cafes of-fered discounts all day.
For Brooke Schroepfer, a 
20-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering junior, the holiday was a way for her to re-ﬂ  ect on just how much coffee she drinks. She said she can’t start her day without a cup.
“It’s a good way to start your 
morning before a long day,” she said.
At the event on the plaza, stu-
dents exchanged coffee beans for coffee-themed buttons. The beans were then glued onto a canvas to form a depiction of the state of Florida.
At Krispy Kreme, located at 
306 NW 13 St., employees gave away free cups of coffee and glazed donuts.
To get ready for the rush, em-
ployees at the shop showed up to work Wednesday night, said em-ployee Derek Asbell.
“Since we’re open 24 hours, 
we had to go in at 10:30 (p.m.) to 
get prepared,” he said.
Know Where Coffee, located at 
1226 W. University Ave., offered 
customers 25 percent off cold-brew coffee.
“We prepare cold brew every 
two to three days,” said manager Juan Diaz. “Luckily, today, that landed on coffee day; we had fresh cold brew.”FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Carley Carbary, a 19-year-old UF religion freshman, places a bean in UF Social Street T eam’s community art project (the state of Florida made up of coffee beans) on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday in honor of National Coffee Day. Limited-edition buttons were given to those who contributed a bean to the project.
UF students, GNV cafes celebrate National Coﬀ  ee Day
By Lindsey Crown
Alligator Contributing Writer
This Saturday, visitors of the 
Florida Museum of Natural History 
can learn about how butterﬂ  ies 
inspired medieval artists.
The museum is hosting its 11th 
annual Butterﬂ  yFest on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The free event is open to all ages and will 
offer workshops about the role butterﬂ  ies play in the ecosystem and activities such as live butterﬂ  y 
releases. Regular admission prices 
for the butterﬂ  y rainforest exhibit will still apply.  
“It’s a celebration of pollinators,” said Kaitlin Gardiner, the marketing 
and public relations coordinator 
for the museum. “I think people underestimate the importance of pollinators to the environment 
and to not only us as humans, but 
plants and animals out there.” 
The Society for Creative 
Anachronism Inc., an international nonproﬁ  t that researches and 
recreates the arts and skills of pre-
17th-century Europe, will be at the event for the ﬁ  rst time this year. 
The group will discuss 
beekeeping in the Middle Ages and how butterﬂ  ies inspired medieval artists, Gardiner said.
Monica Martinez, 20, remembers watching a butterﬂ  y release when 
she visited the exhibit with her 
friend. 
The UF psychology junior said 
she’s never been to the festival but is considering going. 
“I’m probably going to convince 
some of my friends to come with me and nerd out,” she said. Florida Museum hosting 11th annual ButterflyFestBEST LOCAL BREWS
• Pascal’s Coffeehouse: 112 
NW 16th St.
• CYM Coffee Co.: 5402 NW 8th Ave.
• Coffee Culture:  2020 NW 13th St.
• Maude’s Cafe: 101 SE Second 
Place
• Volta Coffee, T ea and 
Chocolate: 48 SW Second St.4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
Tobias said.
According to Florida State Stat-
utes, it’s illegal for someone to 
wear a mask, hood or any other 
item that conceals the identity of 
the wearer on public or private property. Another statute makes it 
illegal to wear any item to conceal 
one’s identity with the intent of in-timidation.
Kizzie Johnson, 30, a resident 
at Georgetown Apartments, heard about the clown sighting Wednes-day from concerned friends.
Since the sighting, she said 
she’s more aware of her surround-ings and won’t walk alone at 
night. If she saw the creepy clown, 
she’d probably scream or hit it.
“That don’t (sic) happen out here,” she said. “I didn’t know that happened in Gainesville.”
Gorgans, the former president 
of the World Clown Association and a clown for 30 years, said he 
hopes the fad dies out quickly. He 
said it’s likely being carried out by teenagers eager for Halloween.
“A lot of these kids go out and 
they imitate what they see,” he said.He said he hopes the public 
understands clowning is a harm-
less profession that aims to make 
folks laugh. But even at birthday parties, some parents are visibly 
scared.
“If we’re asked to, we’ll stay 
away as far as possible,” he said.
rtindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgCLOWNS,  from pg. 1The clowns have been spotted recently in Ocala and GainesvilleBy Ronald Sonbeek 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can now get free yel-
low ponchos from seven places 
across UF’s campus.
UF’s Student Government pur-
chased 5,000 ponchos, which it began distributing Thursday, said Haley Smith, the chief of staff for 
Student Body President Susan Webster. The idea came about 
last Spring as a way to help stu-
dents keep themselves and their 
belongings dry. 
The $12,400 initiative was 
paid for with the remaining funds 
in the 2015-2016 special projects 
budget, she said. The total special projects budget for that time was $50,000.Ponchos are available at Li-
brary West, Marston Science 
Library, the Dean of Students 
Office, the Hub, Southwest Recre-ation Center, Student Recreation and Fitness Center and the Reitz 
Union. Students can get one pon-
cho from the information desk of a participating location by show-ing their Gator 1 Cards. In June, 10,000 ponchos were 
originally purchased, Smith said. The Dean of Students Office got 
5,000 for remaining Preview ori-
entations. But in just one month, 4,600 had already been given out. 
SG decided to give the remain-
ing 5,000 to locations across cam-pus, Smith said. 
“Every few months we will 
re-evaluate if we need to redis-tribute, change distribution loca-
tions or the number of ponchos at each place by checking the inven-
tory of all distribution locations,” Smith said.
Webster said she hopes the 
program will be successful.
“Getting caught in the rain 
with no way to protect ourselves 
or our valuables is a common is-
sue in a city like Gainesville,” she said.
 “The ponchos will help miti-
gate that student issue across 
campus,” she said.SG now offering free ponchos on campus for students
THE SIGN WAS ADDED 
WITHIN THE PAST WEEK.
By Mercedes Leguizamon
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new street sign with a flash-
ing light has been added near the 
Hub in the hopes of reducing ac-cidents and helping direct traffic.
The red sign reads “Authorized vehicles Monday — Friday 8:30 a.m. — 4:30 p.m. Buses, state, service, emergency vehicles, state disabled placard ONLY.” Trans-portation and Parking Services added it to the intersection of 
Stadium Road and Fletcher Drive 
within the past week, said Scott Fox, the director of TPS.
Prior to the new sign, white 
gates controlled traffic after Gale Lemerand Drive on Stadium Road. But these gates had to be swung back and forth daily and were prone to being struck by cars, requiring time and money to repair them.
“The vehicles that were autho-
rized had to maneuver around the gates and navigate into the oppo-site lane,” Fox said. 
He said he hopes the new sign will prevent unsafe situations like these, and instead, lead the traffic down Fletcher Drive toward West University Avenue. 
The sign also pushes the re-
stricted zone further east down 
the road, allowing cars to drive 
down to reach the Student Health Care Center, UF spokeswoman Ja-nine Sikes said. 
Fox said TPS wanted to avoid cars making an awkward U-turn, so they pushed the zone so cars cannot drive eastbound on Sta-dium Road. 
He said he hopes this prevents 
traffic jams and allows bus routes 
to be free of excessive vehicles. 
But TPS will first see how effec-tive the new sign is.
“Our desire and intent is to re-
place all gates,” Fox said. 
New sign warns away drivers near the Hub during the day
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
As construction of a new 
downtown science museum nears 
completion, Gainesville residents 
were invited Thursday evening to 
learn about the project and sign their names on the museum’s fi-nal steel beam.
At the current Cade Museum 
for Creativity and Invention, lo-cated at 904 S. Main St., employ-ees showed off a virtual-reality headset, 3-D-printed Pokemon 
figurines and gel balls that be-
come transparent in water.
By the end of the night, about 
70 names were signed on the 
30-foot-long beam to be placed 
atop the new museum’s structure in Depot Park today at 1 p.m.
“It’s a momentous occasion,” 
said Leslie Ladendorf, the devel-
opment director at the museum.
A South African foreign ex-
change student at UF, 29-year-
old Mandisa Haarhoff, signed 
her name on the steel beam with 
gold, black and red Sharpies. “It felt, like, electrical almost 
— like I’m putting my name on 
something really great,” the Eng-
lish doctoral student said.
The $9.5 million construction 
of the new creativity- and inven-tion-themed museum began in 
April and should finish in the fall 
of 2017, Ladendorf said.
The new space will house ex-
hibits, a lab and a garden with 
statues of inventors, adding to the 
Fab and Creativity Labs and tech-nology classes that are already offered at the current museum’s location.
The construction project will 
honor Dr. J. Robert Cade, who in-vented Gatorade during his time at UF.
The scientist and inventor was 
known for his creativity, accord-ing to his daughter, Phoebe Miles, a co-founder and the CEO of the Cade Museum.
She said she hopes museum 
visitors draw inspiration from Cade’s life.
Dr. Cade collected Studebaker 
cars, planted a rose garden, wrote poems and studied kidneys before he died.
“He was the most creative per-
son I’ve known in my life,” she said.
Cade taught Miles about solv-
ing problems in creative ways and about the importance of persever-ance, which motivated her to de-
velop the museum.
To honor her dad’s love of 
Greek philosophy and design, 
Miles said the architecture of the Cade’s rotunda follows the golden ratio. Miles said it was represen-tative of how the museum pro-
vides a bridge between science, 
math and design.
“Seeing science through the 
eyes of an artist is invention,” Miles said.
Residents learn about new Cade Museum, sign names on steel beam
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Tucker Shea, an 11-year-old who takes science and technology classes at the museum, posts notes on a 
whiteboard at the Cade Museum for Creativity and Invention on Thursday during the Make Your Mark 
SIGHTINGS IN FLORIDA
• Sept. 22: Ocala
• Monday: Palm Bay
• Tuesday: GainesvilleThe new initiative cost $12,400FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
To raise money for Alzheim-
er’s disease research and treat-
ment, more than 600 people will walk through a Gainesville park Saturday.
The eighth-annual Gainesville 
Walk to End Alzheimer’s free event, organized by the Alzheim-er’s Association, will begin at 8 a.m. at Westside Park, located at 1001 NW 34th St. The walk will begin at 9:30 a.m.Michelle Branham, the vice 
president of communications of public policy for the Cen-tral and North Florida chapter of the Alzheimer’s Association, 
said watching students take time 
from their day to support a noble 
cause inspires her.
“It’s really exciting to see 
young people care about their 
community, care about their el-
ders, care about what’s happen-
ing with this disease,” she said. 
Alzheimer’s disease is a pro-
gressive form of brain dysfunc-tion that ultimately leads to death, said David Borchelt, a 
neuroscience professor in the UF College of Medicine.
He said there is a need for 
more investments to fund re-search for Alzheimer’s because 
there is presently no effective 
treatment for it. And while most associate the disease with memo-
ry loss, it entails much more.
“It is memory loss, but it is 
also progressive dysfunction,” 
Borchelt said. “And patients lose the ability ultimately to walk and talk and feed themselves and take care of themselves.”
With a fundraising goal of 
$101,550, the event has raised about $49,363 as of press time, according to the event’s website.
With hundreds of Alzheim-
er’s walks taking place across the country, Branham said she enjoys the Gainesville walk be-cause it involves so many young people from UF and the sur-rounding community.
This year, the Alzheimer’s As-
sociation is expecting more than 700 people to show up to the walk Saturday, which would be a record.Continuing its mission and 
engaging as many people as pos-sible would help push the asso-ciation toward its goal of having an Alzheimer’s treatment and prevention plan by 2025.
“That’s our mission,” she 
said. “We’re bound by that mis-sion.”
Since 1989, the national Walk 
to End Alzheimer’s campaign has raised more than $492 million, Branham wrote in an email.
“We do it for them,” she said. 
“We do it for the 5.3 million Americans living with Alzheim-er’s disease and all those fami-lies.”
Weekend walk to raise money for Alzheimer’s research
IT CAN BE RENTED OUT 
TO ANYONE WITH A 
COUNTY LIBRARY CARD.
By Elizabeth Vigotty
Alligator Contributing Writer
Beginning today, amateur as-
tronomers in Alachua County can 
get a glimpse into outer space with 
their library cards.
Alachua Astronomy Club Inc. 
donated a 13-pound telescope 
Thursday to the Newberry branch 
of the Alachua County Library Dis-trict, allowing library patrons to 
use it recreationally.
The telescope, an Orion Star-
Blast, can be rented out by anyone 
with a county library card for up to 
four weeks, which is enough time 
to observe a full solar cycle, said Andy Howell, the president of the 
astronomy club.
“This telescope is great for 
anyone interested in astronomy,” Howell said. “It’s perfect for the 
youngsters, too.”
The Astronomical League, an 
organization of amateur astrono-
my clubs, provided the telescope 
to the club through the Library Loaner Scope program.
Modifications made to the tele-
scope ensure its scopes and lenses 
cannot be removed or damaged 
while in use, Howell said.
He said the telescope can make 
the moon, which is about 240,000 
miles away, appear to be just 1,000 
miles away.
The club chose to donate it to 
the Newberry library because the Newberry Star Park observing site 
is located nearby, he said.Marlin Day, the manager of the 
Newberry library, said that along 
with renting the telescope, patrons will receive instructions and a sky-
chart book for suggestions on what 
stars and constellations to look for.
He said the library doesn’t have 
any other kind of equipment-rent-
al program, so he expects the tele-
scope to be checked out regularly.
“We are really pleased with this 
donation,” Day said. “It is a cool service and a really nice addition 
for our library patrons.”
Bill Helms, a member of the as-
tronomy club and a retired NASA 
physicist, said renting the tele-
scope would be a good opportu-
nity for kids to get involved in sci-ence, but at their own risk. 
“Do not look at the sun through 
this,” he said. “It could take your 
eye out.”Astronomy club donates telescope
Elizabeth Vigotty/Alligator
Members of Alachua Astronomy Club Inc. and the manager of the 
Newberry library branch pose with the library’s new 13-pound telescope. The telescope, donated by the club on Thursday, will be available for rental today with presentation of a library card.
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff
FURRY FRIEND
Rosmery Nerey Rodriguez, a 19-year-old UF wildlife ecology and conservation junior, cuddles a dog up for adoption at the Fall Volunteer Organization Fair on the North Lawn on Thursday afternoon. 
By Josslyn Howard
Alligator Contributing Writer
By donating invasive lionfish to 
Gainesville dinner tables, a local conser-
vation group hopes to call attention to the invasive species.
For one month starting Saturday, 
14 local restaurants will serve lionfish dishes as a part of the inaugural Lionfish Invasion Tour, organized by conserva-tion group ReefSavers.
The point, said Joe Glass, the presi-
dent and founder of the group, is to edu-cate the public about the threat lionfish pose to marine ecosystems.
“The whole goal of the tour is aware-
ness,” Glass said.  “What’s going to come out of the tour are funds we can put back into the lionfish-removal com-munity.”
ReefSavers will donate about 10,000 
fish to the restaurants in exchange for their revenues. 
Among the participating restaurants 
are Dragonfly Sushi and The Top, he 
said.
Lionfish, known for their poisonous 
spines, were released into the Atlantic 
Ocean in the 1980s, and a lack of preda-tors kept the lionfish reproducing and eating, said Maia McGuire, an Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Flor-ida Sea Grant agent for Flagler County. 
Over the years, the problem has only 
worsened as their population grows.
When Dave Piasecki, the general 
manager of Dragonfly, heard of the Li-onfish Invasion Tour, he quickly jumped onboard. 
Serving lionfish, which is not often 
eaten, would give his chefs a chance to experiment while also helping the envi-
ronment, he said.
“It’s not a money-making scheme,” 
Piasecki said. “You’ve got to look at it 
from the environmental standpoint.”
By the end of the tour, ReefSavers 
hopes at least a quarter of participating restaurants will keep lionfish on their menus, Glass said. 
Despite barely promoting the upcom-
ing event, he said word of the tour has already spread through the environmen-talist community. He has been invited to host similar events in other Florida cities, including Pensacola, Naples and Panama City, he said.
The lionfish community is small, so 
once someone starts making an impact, people hear about it, Glass said.GNV restaurants to serve 
lionfish for the next month
Organizers hope to raise more than $100,000The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Remembering Shimon Peres, a great leader
On Wednesday morning, the world 
lost a great man; a man bigger than politics, whose name alone is syn-
onymous with the state of Israel.
Born in Poland in 1923, Shimon 
Peres moved to British-mandated Palestine 
in 1934. There, he not only dreamed of a 
Jewish nation, but he also fought coura-
geously to realize that dream, ﬁ  rst as a key ﬁ  gure in the 1948 War of Independence and later as a statesman and politician in almost every Is-raeli conﬂ  ict since.
At a very young age, Peres was personally picked 
by Israel’s founding father, David Ben-Gurion, to carry out important missions. He was in charge of acquiring weapons for Israel’s war of independence, and subse-
quently made arms deals with France that led to an-
other victory for Israel in 1967. Likewise, he was in-strumental in developing Israel’s indispensable nuclear program in a country whose enemies had no tolerance for its existence.
However, it was not only his diligent efforts to build 
up Israel’s military might, his role in developing Israel’s major industries, Israel’s nuclear program or the fact that he was prime minister twice and a president that 
made him a great man. It was also his dream of a lasting 
peace with perpetually hostile Arab neighbors. He was the mastermind behind the 1993 Oslo Accord with Yas-ser Arafat, the chairman of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, which earned him a Nobel Peace Prize 
and gave hope to millions who longed for peace. 
In a country that often forgets the remarkable journey 
that was the founding of Israel, Peres was the last re-
maining symbol of that remarkable journey. He showed 
the world that Israel would ﬁ  ght when necessary, but 
also seek peace when the time was right.
However, his endeavors were not without contro-versy. After his negotiations with King Hussein of Jordan over Palestinian self-de-termination failed, Peres pursued the idea 
of speaking directly with the PLO, which 
was viewed as a terrorist organization by many Israelis. The PLO was responsible for multiple atrocities such as the massacre of 
22 school children in Ma’alot and the infa-
mous Munich massacre, which left 11 Israeli Olympians dead. The list of PLO atrocities is 
long, bloody and tragic.
Still, Peres engaged in direct negotiations with the 
PLO in the name of peace. He dreamed of a “New Mid-dle East” where Israel would not only have peaceful relations with its Arab neighbors, but be economically integrated in a ﬂ  ourishing Middle East.
Unfortunately, Peres’ dream has since been put on 
hold, ﬁ  rst by the dissolution of multilateral peace in Egypt, and then by the Second Intifada, or Palestinian uprising, that erupted shortly after Israel made far-reaching concessions to the Palestinians in exchange 
for peace.  That violent series of events left 4,000 dead 
and the peace agreement in shambles. Since then rela-tions between Israel and Palestine have gone downhill and negotiations for peace are currently at an impasse.
However, Peres never lost hope, and it is with this 
hope that he leaves us at the age of 93. Like his mentor, David Ben-Gurion, Peres was a dreamer, pragmatist and believer in the enterprise and innovation that created the nation of Israel. Peres passed away as a beloved ﬁ  g-
ure who contributed to the development of the miracle 
that is Israel and as a symbol of peace and optimism. Today, he is no longer with us, but his dream and his hope for the world lives on.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science and tele-
communication senior. His column appears on Fridays.“I’m not mad, I’m just disappointed,” your father says, sitting 
down at the edge of the bed. “I was young once too, y’know.” 
He chuckles to himself. “I remember when I read my ﬁ  rst Darts & Laurels. I was just 17, a freshman at UF. All my friends were reading the Alligator. I ﬁ  gured, if I read it too, maybe I’ll ﬁ  t in. Maybe I’ll be cool.” He sighs and looks back at you. “You’ll always be my child, and I love you for that alone. But please, make good choices. Keep a good head on those shoulders. I know it’s harmless, but some good people get caught up in some bad things when they read…
Darts & Laurels
Oh, dear reader, we absolutely have to talk about that debate, 
or rather, conversation in which Hillary Clinton tried to explain 
policy over The Don’s shouting. Say what you will about the debate, but the polls indicate a pretty big victory for the left. Regardless, there would be no end to the ridicule Clinton would 
endure if she did what Donald did and simply shouted “Wrong!” 
while he spoke. We lob a dart at all of Trump’s supporters 
who don’t understand what a double standard is.
In terms of local elections, we ﬁ  nally had our ﬁ  rst Student 
Government election of the school year. We know a one-party system can be intimidating, and disincentivize a lot of you for participating in the electoral process. Nevertheless, a large voter turnout is essential to the functioning of a conﬁ  dent democracy. That said, we present a dart to the Student Body for their con-
stant complaining at the shortcomings of Student Government 
but not actually going to the polls to express that frustra-
tion.
Many of you are probably so sick and tired of hearing about 
the kneeling-before-the-national-anthem issue. Don’t worry; we 
are too. Even so, we’re witnessing a spread of this protest energy across the country, from increasingly more NFL players to even high-school athletes. To those of you who feel uncomfortable with these recent events, maybe the fact that so many of the nation’s youth feel passionately enough about today’s racial di-visions to take action and perform “kneel-ins” is a sign that they 
might just be onto something. 
But, one lone hero, one not-so-caped-crusader plans to bring 
us all back to sanity: Pro Football Hall of Famer Mike Ditka. 
When a Dallas radio station asked Ditka about the Kaepernick-
kneeling protests last Friday he responded, “I don’t see all the atrocities going on in this country that people say are going on.” Of course you don’t see them, Mike. You live in a multimillion-dollar, NFL-centric, upper-class world. Mike Ditka is what you chemistry majors would get if you mixed ignorance and mon-
ey together in your labs. If you search for antonyms of “Black 
America” or “racial empathy” on thesaurus.com, you’ll get Mike Ditka. Ask Siri whether white privilege is really a thing, and she’ll tell you, “Mike Ditka.”
Take this dart, Ditka, for living under a rock, albeit a mul-
timillion-dollar rock, and assuming you know all there is to 
know about racism in America. Stick to smoking your cigars 24/7. Actually, get together with Will Ferrell for a “Kicking & Screaming” sequel. And while you’re at it, get us a juice box. 
(Go watch the movie if you missed that reference. What are you 
going to do otherwise — study for midterms?)
Saturday marks the beginning of October. Somewhere in the 
U.S., leaves are changing colors and people are wearing sweat-ers because they’re actually cold. But, because we live in Satan’s a--hole, we have yet to feel those effects. We present a dart to October, for creeping up on us and leaving us with tempera-
tures that don’t drop.  
However, not all is insufferable. With the new month comes 
scary movie marathons (although, let’s be honest, we at the Alligator are much more excited for Disney’s holiday classics — “Halloweentown,” anyone?) We extend a laurel to the month of October for justifying our excessive candy intake and for 
making it just that much more acceptable to sing Christmas 
songs. 
Julian Flesichman
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Considering how many people in our 
society experience college, I ﬁ  nd it interesting just how few novels are written with collegiate settings. I recently ﬁ  nished the book “Lon-
er” by Teddy Wayne, which offers quite a frightening perspective on certain people and places around us. This novel is not a cute 200-page story that takes place at an elite university, but is instead a disturbing portrait of a notable chunk of our culture. What makes this book successful is its dy-namic main character, a Harvard University 
freshman named David Federman. To call 
Federman a ﬁ  rst-class narcissist, entitled braggart, unreliable narrator and know-it-all would be putting it lightly.
The following of an egoist as he navi-
gates through early adulthood is not new to literature. F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “This Side of Paradise” follows the self-centered Amory Blaine through his disastrous love 
life while at Princeton University, and 
James Joyce’s “A Portrait of the Artist as a 
Young Man” tells the tale of Stephen Deda-lus, a young Dubliner who comes face-to-face with heavy issues concerning religion and politics as he comes of age in his university years. We all re-
member being struck by Holden 
Caulﬁ  eld’s uncomfortably relat-
able voice in J.D. Salinger’s “The 
Catcher in the Rye,” but it is pre-cisely this ability to relate with 
ﬂ  awed characters that allows us 
to truly evaluate ourselves from 
the outside. What made Holden 
Caulﬁ  eld a disturbing character wasn’t his typical adolescent cynicism and unfailing 
selﬁ  shness, but the fact that we all saw a 
little of ourselves in his brutally honest nar-ration. Literature often presents characters with the same nasty ﬂ  aws we all possess.
In “Loner,” David Federman evokes 
a Caulﬁ  eld-like cynicism, but he is also a chilling narcissist with almost primal lev-els of envy. From constantly criticizing his closest peers to feigning an interest in someone just to be closer to their room-mate, David does some terrible things. The thing is, though, he does things any one of us could do. We may not all reach the same unnatural levels of manipulation 
and dishonesty (with others, as well as ourselves) as David, but we often 
come close. Most of the time, Da-
vid is a freak to be observed from 
afar, but every once and while he 
would say or do something that 
I could see myself doing, which can be quite unsettling.
Part of what can make a story 
an economic success, in the eyes 
of publishers, is its ability to re-
late to the masses, and in an increasingly 
globalized world; it appears that this once-
impossible task is becoming easier.
A major concern of anti-globalists is the 
idea of “cultural homogenization,” which 
is simply a reduction in cultural variety. As our political ties and economies become more and more interconnected and inter-dependent, there is a growing fear that the people of earth will eventually merge into one, ugly glob of homogenous culture, pref-erences and experiences. But is a culture really a culture if it’s the only one?
Regardless of the answer to that ques-
tion, diversity of life and experience are a part of what makes the world fascinating, 
but couldn’t a homogenous culture make proﬁ  ts much easier for publishers of enter-
tainment and art? As consumers, we tend to 
wade toward art that is familiar and relat-
able. The personal connection felt from any 
relation is pleasant and comforting, and if 
this feeling can be evoked from a book or song, then we are undoubtedly going to 
ﬂ  ock toward art that makes us feel such a 
way. 
Whether the world is currently merging 
into one like-minded mass, I admire litera-ture’s ability to transcend what we think 
of as culture and tap into the much richer 
resource of the overall human experience. I may not eat the same foods or celebrate the same holidays as a French counterpart across the sea, but I’m sure we both have experienced many of the same things: fail-ure, success, joy, devastation or love. It is these underlying emotions that literature pries out from the depths of us and forc-es us to face head-on. And for that, I am thankful, for I know it is good for us all.
Andrew Hall is a UF business admin-
istration junior. His column appears on Fridays.
Since I was 13 or so, I’ve done my best to be as involved as I could with music wherever I am. It started when my two friends and I were con-tacted via Myspace by a local guitar-
ist’s girlfriend to see if we’d want to come see him play. We became good friends after that, and my friends and I sold his CDs at his gigs at the Daytona Beach Bandshell all sum-mer. Through that, we met a lot of musicians and bands. We took every chance we got to see them play at the Bandshell, at the mall or any of the other venues my hometown had to offer to minors when its music scene was still thriving for the younger crowd. I lost connections with most of the musicians I met because I was so young when I started to get involved. But now that I’m a more ap-propriate age, I’m pretty immersed in the lo-cal music scenes of both Gainesville and the Daytona area, and I’ve never been happier.There’s something awesome 
about being involved with your town’s music scene. Whether you’re attending shows or playing them, there’s a great sense of com-munity about it. It’s pretty inter-esting to go see your friends and their bands play music, especially if you really like their music.
Sometimes, you can see them 
being entirely different people in the way they manage to inﬂ  uence a body of people with their words and music, as well as their stage presence — that aspect is es-pecially amusing to me because I have no stage presence whatsoever. After a certain point, you’ll start to hear people sing along to songs your friends wrote, and that’s one of the coolest things ever.
Playing music in front of people is a 
completely different animal. I’ve played with jazz groups for eight years before I started playing with my rock band, and those two experi-ences are like apples and oranges. Playing pre-written jazz standards is one thing, but playing original music in front of people for the ﬁ  rst time was absolutely bizarre. I was terriﬁ  ed, but then I realized no one would notice if I messed up because no one knew what our 
music was supposed to sound like. A few months ago we started playing more shows, but my terror has yet to subside whenever I stand in front of more than two people. How-ever, seeing some people react positively to what we play eases my nerves just a bit. The ﬁ  rst time I heard someone sing along with my band as we were playing a song, I was in shock. It was mind blowing to think someone actually liked what we had to offer enough to learn the words to one of our songs.
It doesn’t cost much to support new mu-
sic. It’s completely free to spread the word about local artists through word of mouth or social media. If you want to go to a show, $5 is usually enough for a venue's cover. Maybe you can throw in another $5 or so to buy a band’s EP or $10 to buy a shirt. The money you spend to support these musicians will go toward recording, merchandise or tour costs. With that, I urge you to go to your friends’ shows and be supportive. Talk to the local and touring bands; they’re people, too. Ad-ditionally, don’t be afraid to step outside your comfort zone and play your music out in public. Just go on and support local mu-sic; your favorite bands and musicians didn’t pop up out of thin air.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.
What makes books successful? The ability to relate to diﬀ  erent cultures
As a listener and a performer, give your local music scene a chanceColumn
Column
Alexa DeLoera
opinions@alligator.org
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgtification in Dentmond’s death, he 
said.
But police brutality against the 
black community isn’t a new con-
cept to Kendi. While in Philadel-
phia, he was approached by an of-
ficer who was investigating a recent shooting in the area. 
Kendi watched as the officer 
moved for the gun on his hip.
The officer asked Kendi to re-
move his hands from his pockets, Kendi recalled. He complied. He be-lieved one wrong move could have 
ended his life. 
“Every black person could be 
subjected to that kind of treatment,” 
he said. 
No matter how educated a per-
son may be or how many degrees 
he or she has, he said, every black 
person is viewed as a criminal.
Kendi joined a panel Sept. 22 to 
discuss with a group of Gainesville residents, UF students and local of-ficers about the Black Lives Matter 
movement and events that continue to impact the black community.
“I want people to be able to leave 
police incidents alive,” he said. “Es-pecially young black people who look like ‘bad dudes.’”
Johnson, who grew up in a pre-
dominantly black and Hispanic community, said the presence of police officers was constant.
Police officers would stop kids 
on the street and point guns direct-ly in their faces, he said. Officers would mistake his fear for guilt and would threaten to beat him up, he said. 
“It was a way of life,” he said. But change is needed, Johnson 
told a group at the meeting, hosted by the Black Graduate Student Orga-nization. Officers of the Gainesville community, who were present, are helping spark that change, he said. 
“I see (Gainesville Police) doing 
their best to mend these wounds,” Johnson said.•   •   •
In Gainesville, officers say 
they’re continuing to work with the community.
Gainesville Police spokesman Of-
ficer Ben Tobias wrote in an email that the department is a national leader in community relations. 
He said GPD takes all complaints 
of police misconduct seriously and investigates them thoroughly.
When officers are found to be-
have inappropriately, he said, GPD 
acts quickly.
“Our officers recognize that ev-
eryone we encounter, no matter 
their criminal intent, is a human be-ing and deserves to be treated with 
that respect,” he said. 
A crime analyst for GPD provid-
ed numbers that show since 2014, 
the number of arrests has gone down and the gaps between the 
number of black and white arrests 
are closing. 
As of Sept. 15, 215 more black 
adults have been arrested than white adults this year.
Johnson said GPD cannot be 
held accountable for the shootings 
going on across the nation, but it’s important they know and sympa-thize with the experiences of the black community. 
“We’re asking for support,” he 
said.
•   •   •
Three days after the shooting 
of Keith Lamont Scott, 43, in Char-lotte, North Carolina, on Friday, a group of about 300 people showed up on Turlington Plaza.
The names of 40 victims who 
were killed by officers were read, followed by a moment of silence. 
Khyra Keeley, 20, who organized 
the event, said she has been over-whelmed by the response of the community.
“I think sometimes we forget the 
power and the influence we have as students,” the UF political science and African-American studies stu-dent said. 
Keely, the social justice and ad-
vocacy chair of UF Black Affairs, said she was amazed by how many students approached her, ready to work for change. 
She’s willing to do whatever it 
takes to see change happen at UF and in Gainesville, Keely said. Even if that means being a part of the movement after graduation. 
“I’m going to be in this and fight 
with you,” she said. “I don’t care how long it takes; I’m in it for the long haul.”
•   •   •
As Medens Gerbier collapsed in 
the courtyard of UF Levin College of Law on Wednesday, she thought of Dentmond.
She wore a white shirt covered in blood-red handprints. The 22-year-
old lay next to 39 other UF students 
as they dropped to the ground as name after name was read. Eventu-ally, 40 students lay on the UF law school courtyard in protest of the deaths of unarmed black men and women.
Gerbier’s heart pounded as the 
names were read aloud. Robert Dentmond. Terence Crutcher. Keith Scott.
“It easily could have been me,” 
the first-year UF law student said.
Alisha Moriceau, the president of 
the Black Law Student Association, said students need to talk to one an-other to provoke change and let go of the fear of offending others. 
Despite professors and students 
being more concerned with political correctness, she said she believes police brutality against the black community needs to be discussed. 
“Murder is murder,” the 23-year-
old second year UF law student said. “It’s not anti-police — it’s anti-murder.”
Moriceau said she wants to con-
tinue having difficult conversations 
and taking others with her to speak 
in the community about the issues that affect it.
“We want to make people un-
comfortable,” she said, “because 
until you make people uncomfort-
able, you cannot impact change.”
Keeley said UF organizations like 
Black Affairs will have to come to-gether to provoke change. 
Along with other students, 
Keeley said she wants to attend meetings of the Police Advisory Council and work with UF to offer more education and diversity, espe-cially during students’ first year.
“We can’t just grieve together,” 
she said. ”We have to put together 
action steps to create change.” 8   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
COMMUNITY,  from pg. 1‘Until you make people uncomfortable, you cannot impact change’
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Khyra Keeley, the social justice and advocacy chair for UF Black 
Affairs, leads a group of students in discussion on Monday. They talked about what they can do to provoke change in their community. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Ben Estrella, 18, a UF mechanical engineering freshman, engages in the conversation about Gainesville and its black community. He attended a meeting led by UF Black Affairs on Monday night.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
On Wednesday, UF’s Black Law Student Association staged a “die-in” to honor 40 victims of police brutality. The protest took place in the courtyard of the Levin College of Law.
•   •   •FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-5-16-5-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D, Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    9-30-16-2-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
CENTRAL GEORGIA LANDBeautiful & Wooded3 to 12 Acre Mini-FarmsZERO DOWNPayments as Low as $90 per MonthCall: 770-265-0365Visit: countrylots.net      9-30-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged
2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!
Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647     9-30-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 __ salad
5 Maddux who won
four consecutiveCy Young
Awards
9 Prominent
feature of
toondom’sDroopy Dog
14 Efficient
15 Dunkirk dream
16 2003 LPGA
Rookie of theYear
17 Sight20 Cuttlefish
pigment
21 “Homeland” org.22 Wyo. neighbor23 Hearing28 Acting sister of
Lynn
31 Big biceps, at the
gym
32 Form 1040 calc.33 Like law school
trials
36 Befuddled39 Smell43 Burns art?44 Omission in logic
45 Ltr. holder
46 Macy’s
department
48 Sierra __51 Touch
55 Led
56 __ Park Lincoln
of “KnotsLanding”
57 Playgroup
demand
61 Taste
66 Reno-__ Intl.
Airport
67  Magnate
68 Goddess of
discord
69 Cape Ann’s
county
70 Bottom lines71 Energetic
DOWN
1 Crosswords are
often solved inthem
2 Black wind3 Observation in a
tower
4 Playgroup
warning
5 Garden product
word
6 Call the game7 Throw out
8 Powerful lamp
contents
9 Average
beverage?
10 Text-scanning
technology,
briefly
11 Like some
conditionally
ordered stock
12 Mr. Wrong?13 Didn’t act18 __ Ski Valley, site
of Kachina Peak
19 Sharpness24 Camp Pendleton
letters
25 “The Phantom of
the Opera” role
26 Esse __ videri:
North Carolinamotto
27 Biblical
preposition
28 Siren29 Currency
exchange fee
30 Three quarters34 A.L. Central team35 He played Kevin
in “The Devil’sAdvocate”
37 Lombardy Castle
city
38 Off-rd. rides40 Discounted,
perhaps
41 Four-fifths of a
pop band?
42 Adopt-__.com:
humane online
gp.
47 Songs for singles49 Chevy named for
a star
50 Pops up
51 Steamed
52 Law office
workers53 Contest
54 Contest lure
58 Car sticker letters
59 Prime minister
before Rabin
60 “Whoever you
are, findwhatever you’re
into” website
62 Iowa campus63 T. __
64 Pic taker
65 Jun. gown
wearers
By Joseph Groat©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/30/1609/30/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 30, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comLive Longer. Drive Sober. 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 WantedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Babysitter wanted, afternoons/evenings, 
$12/hr for kids age 7-13. Help drive kids from school/to activities, light housekeeping (dish-es, laundry, feed meals), play with 7 yr old, help with homework. Babysitting experience and car required, must be reliable. Email re-sume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    9-30-16-3-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DATA MINING RESEARCHER WANTEDPT, work your own hours.Paid per job / project.Email resume: jholifield1@gmail.com    10-3-3-14
HELP WANTED
HARVESTING CHESTNUTS
Pay $20 per 5 gal bucket. 20814 NW CR 
2054 Alachua. Call 352-213-2239    10-6-5-
14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PT janitorial office/home/apartment cleaners needed ASAP day and night shifts available. Weekly pay and gas distributed $8.50/hr and must own and drive own car..If interested please call 352-214-0868      10-3-16-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1
1312111098765432
For information on advertising in the Worship Guide, 
contact Alligator Advertising 352-376-4482
Chapel of the 
Incarnation
The EpiscoGators Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30pm 
followed by a free home cooked 
meal for students
1522 W University Ave
across the street from 
Library WestEpiscopal
Gainesville 
Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for a 
Spiritual Community?
We are a community 
dedicated to peace, integrity, 
equality, social justice, and 
care of the earth.
Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11 a.m. Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
www.gainesvillequakers.orgQuaker
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30pm, Sun. 
9am, 11:30, 1:30 (espanol), 
5:30, 7:30
M-F 12& 5:30 pm.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.orgCatholicFaith Presbyterian 
Church (PCA)
Come join us! 
Sundays at 10am
5196 NW 39th Ave
352-377-5482
faithgainesville.org
faith@faithgainesville.org
Trinity United Methodist
Contemporary: Wednesday, 6:35p
Coffee Talk for college, 7:30p
Sunday Worship: 8:15, 9:40, 11a 
376-6615,TrinityGNV .orgMethodist
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship
8:30 and 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after
 Sunday worship
College Fellowship
Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, 
Bible study and recreation
Contact Scott Stuart at 
college@1stpc.orgPresbyterian
University City Church
of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9am and 
Wednesdays at 7pm
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, large 
group events, free meals and 
much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Non-Denominational
Campus Church
of Christ
Campus Church!
Sunday worship 10:30 a 
+ Wed 7p
Free student lunch 1+3 Sunday
Want to get involved in music 
ministry/college group?
Contact: rom116steven@gmail
352-501-7253
across from UF law school!
Gainesville Vineyard
Jesus-centered faith. Authentic 
community. Good coffee. Sleep 
in on Sunday! Our service meets 
@ 4pm. 3536 NW 8th Ave (just 
2 miles from campus) College 
group meets twice monthly 
downtown @7:30
371-0838
www.gainesvillevineyard.org
Vida Springs Church
A Church for students
Modern Real Relevant Truth
Sunday Service 10:30 am
Wyndham Garden Hotel
2900 SW 13th St. Near UF
www.VidaSpringsChurch.org
United Church 
of Gainesville
Whoever you are, wherever you 
are on life’s journey you are 
welcome here. 
Open and affirming to LGBTQ!
Services Sun 9:15 and 11:15
Young Adult Lunuch 
2 Sundays/month @ 12:30
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org 378-3500Church of ChristUnited
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner.
7:30pm Spring/Fall,
8:30pm Summer
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.comJewish13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14SALES ASSOCIATESGainesville Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram has sales opportunities for enthusiastic candi -
dates and we're willing to provide additional training to help develop your talents!  We are looking for full and part time associates and can offer a flexible schedule for students.  Many of our leads are inbound through the internet – we need staff to follow up via email and phone calls to get customers the information and pricing on our new and pre-owned vehicles.
We are a family owned dealership offering 
excellent working conditions with THE BEST 
PAY ON MAIN STREET!  If you have strong 
customer service skills and the drive to be successful, we want to talk to you!  Valid driver’s license & clean driving record re-quired.  Must be willing to submit to a back-ground check & drug screen.  EOE/DFWP  
 Send resume togreatdealershipjobs@gmail.com or apply in person, Mon - Fri; 9am - 4pm   3000 N Main Street ▪ Gainesville    9-30-16-4-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHER Get FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM  888-242-2649       9-30-1-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305       9-30-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
CHILDREN’S BOOKSMajor US publisher is looking fornew Children’s Book Authors Learn a proven FORMULA forComplete Beginners to publishchildren’s books in just 7 days!FREE Online Workshop:www.NewAuthors.us          9-30-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Throughout her career, 
Savannah Jordan of the UF soccer team has dominated SEC defenses. But the team's been struggling to score points lately, pg. 16. Former UF baseball player joins softball staff
Cody Dent, a former infielder for UF's baseball team, will be the Florida 
softball team's volunteer assistant coach for the 2017 season, head coach Tim Walton announced Thursday. Dent was drafted out of Florida by the Washington Nationals in the 22nd round of the 2013 MLB Draft.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Staff Report
Alligator sports editor Ian Cohen and 
Vanderbilt Hustler sports editor Robbie Wein-
stein discuss Florida's matchup with Vanderbilt this weekend in a question and answer format.
Ian Cohen: It seems like Vanderbilt has 
struggled to find consistency through the early part of the season. The Commodores opened the season with a three-point loss to South Car-olina and then had a blowout win, a blowout loss and a one-point overtime victory over the last three weeks. What’s the key to them find-ing their rhythm? 
Robbie Weinstein: At this point, Vander-
bilt is still looking to put together a complete game on both offense and defense. Even in the (Middle Tennessee State) blowout, the defense gave up lots of yards but offset that by forcing turnovers. For the offense, quarterback Kyle 
Shurmur seems more comfortable in an up 
tempo scheme. Coach Derek Mason, though, implied this week that a no-huddle offense won’t represent the team’s primary look in the near future. Quite frankly, I’d be surprised if the offense finds much rhythm against Flori-da’s defense no matter the pace of play.
Defensively, getting more pressure on the 
quarterback could help. The defense has, for the most part, alternated between struggling against the pass while succeeding against the run and vice versa. Florida’s offense is a lot different from those of Western Kentucky and 
MTSU, so maybe the Commodores will have 
more luck. But this is mostly speculation; the inconsistency has been maddening, and there’s no obvious answer as to why it’s persisted.Florida vs. Vanderbilt: Q&A with the opponent
The Associated Press
Vanderbilt running back Ralph  Webb (7) is tackled by multiple Western Kentucky players in the Commodores' 31-30 win on 
Saturday in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Webb is a Gainesville native.
Alligator Staff
This is it.
The most hyped time of the season 
is upon us: Vanderbilt week.
UF coach Jim McElwain will go 
head to head against VU coach Derek 
Mason, who owns a 9-19 record and is 
coming off a one-point overtime win over the Western Kentucky Hilltop-pers. 
Vanderbilt ranks 102nd in the na-
tion in scoring offense, 65th in scor-ing defense and tied for 108th in first downs per game.
Oh wait, you thought we were talk-
ing about the matchup between the two football teams?
Ha. Good one.The real contest this weekend: Alli-
gator sports writers vs. Nashville BBQ.
The most exciting matchup will be 
a Friday night face-off at Jack’s BBQ at 9 p.m, broadcasted live on ESPNU.
We hear Jack’s will be starting its 
pulled pork sliders and side of corn-bread, and there’s even rumors that they’ll be introducing a surprise menu item this weekend that may catch our sports writers by surprise.
And like a certain Florida football 
coach last week, Jack’s has closed all kitchen viewing to the media since Monday. 
But as long as we give it 110 per-
cent, believe in each other and trust our preparation, we should be able to fight through some adversity and come out with a victory. 
Debating this week’s matchup be-
tween Alligator Sports writers and Jack’s BBQ are sports editor Ian Co-
hen and assistant sports editor Ethan 
Bauer.
Sports writers will win be-
cause…
Jack’s may have been established 
over 40 years ago, but who doesn’t love a good underdog story? The sports writers unseat the long-standing 
champion in dramatic fashion, corn-
bread and all.
-Ian CohenPICKS
SITE: Vanderbilt Stadium 
(cap. 39,790)
KICKOFF: Noon, Saturday 
TV /RADIO: SEC Network / Gators 
IMG Sports Network
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
To coach Bryan Shelton, tennis is like tak-
ing a test.
“You go out on the court and the guy, your 
opponent, throws some questions at you and 
you’ve got to come up with the answers,” Shelton said. “And you’ve got about an hour and a half to complete the test.”But in the case of tennis, failing isn’t an 
option.  
“They’ve got to be sharp,” Shelton said, 
“and they’ve got to be able to make the ad-justments that they need to so that they can make the passing grade.”
And two tournaments into the preseason, 
several players have done just that.
In the Bedford Cup last weekend, junior 
Jordan Belga earned his second singles cham-pionship of the season.
“It’s so early in the season for Jordan to al-
ready have two titles under his belt,” Shelton 
said. “That’s pretty impressive.”
Meanwhile, freshman Johannes Ingildsen 
won a singles championship in the Southern 
Intercollegiate, his first collegiate tournament ever.
“I don’t know how many guys in their very 
first collegiate event have won a title, so I’m certainly impressed with him,” Shelton said. Men's tennis finding success early in season
Belga already has two titles
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 14SEE Q&A,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
“And kind of like Jordan, he just 
found ways to win.”
But this week, serving has been 
a dominant focus in practice as the team gears up for the ITA All-Amer-ican Championships.
Serving is the most important 
shot in tennis, Shelton said, and the team has been spending extra time in practice hitting targets with serves and creating pressure situa-tions.
Another aspect of the game to 
hone in on, players and coaches said, is fitness.
“I just want to keep improving 
upon that because without that I’m going to struggle throughout my matches,” junior Chase Perez-Blan-co said. “But if that’s going well I can last longer and play better ten-nis.”
Physicality will be demanded this weekend, as some of the team will be playing in Tulsa, Oklahoma, this Saturday as part of prequalify-ing rounds for the ITA All-American Championships.
McClain Kessler, Maxx Lipman, 
Belga and Joshua Wardell will start off in the pre-qualifying singles draw this Saturday. On Monday, Perez-Blanco will play in the quali-fying singles draw. Orkin and Lip-man will also be a pair in the quali-fying doubles draw. And starting next Thursday, Alfredo Perez and Elliot Orkin will begin competition in the singles main draw.
“Almost every SEC school will 
be represented and almost every top-50 school across the nation will be there,” Shelton said. “The very best players from across the coun-try will be there from every confer-ence.”
With this tournament being just 
the second one of the season for some of these players, there’s no doubt nerves can set in, just as they did last weekend.
“I was going to be a little rusty 
and a little nervous even though I’ve played a lot of tournaments throughout my career,” Perez-Blan-co said.
But building on the success the 
team has already seen will help the team’s confidence, Shelton said.
“Confidence to me is like your 
best friend,” Shelton said. “I think it just takes one or two good wins to start gaining that confidence, and then you create the momentum that you can sustain and hopefully make a run through the tournament.”
The women’s tennis team, mean-
while, will be playing in the Riviera ITA All-American Championships in Pacific Palisades, California, with prequalifying action kicking off Sat-urday.
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org
TENNIS,  from pg13The Gators are looking to improve on their serving and fitness
Jordan McPherson/ Alligator Staff
Chase Perez-Blanco returns a ball during Florida's win against Troy on Jan. 17, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
IC: Gainesville native and 
Vanderbilt running back Ralph 
Webb is always a big topic of dis-cussion at Florida when these two teams play. At 118 yards per game, 
how do you think he’ll fare this 
week against Florida’s run defense?
RW: If the Vanderbilt offensive 
line plays a good game, Webb will rack up nice yardage numbers. If UF stacks the box, however, I doubt Webb will have much suc-cess. Webb is a great player, but I think how he fares will be more of a 
function of how big a threat the VU 
passing attack can pose. He could easily break off a long run or two, but I don’t think there will be many holes for Webb this Saturday.IC: Vanderbilt is 9-19 under 
coach Derek Mason. Is he on the hot seat? If not, how long until fans start clamoring for his firing if he 
can’t start winning?
RW: I don’t think Mason is on 
the hot seat, but that’s not what 
one might expect simply from lis-tening to fans. Most fans will prob-ably want him fired if the team fails 
to make a bowl game, and some 
already do. Vanderbilt’s adminis-tration, however, isn’t like others around the SEC. Athletic director David Williams isn’t quick at all to fire coaches, and I’d be shocked if 
Mason is fired after this year. The 
earliest I can see Mason getting the boot is after the 2017 season, and I don’t think Williams will pay much attention to pressure from fans.
IC: Prediction for Saturday?
RW: I think Vandy’s defense will have a better showing than in the last three weeks, but that won’t be 
enough. I’ll go with Florida 27-14.
RW:  It sounds like Austin Ap-
pleby is likely to start at QB Satur-
day as normal starter Luke Del Rio recovers from a knee injury, so how is the UF offense different with Ap-pleby in?
IC: Since Austin Appleby is the 
backup quarterback, it’s normal to assume Florida’s offense would suf-fer with him starting. Add in the fact 
that he went 2-9 in 11 starts at Pur-
due, and I wasn’t expecting much from his first outing of the season last week against Tennessee. 
But somehow, Florida’s offense 
was just as explosive, if not more 
so, with Appleby playing. Last 
week, he had five pass plays over 20 yards in the first half alone, in-cluding two 40+-yard completions to receiver Antonio Callaway. UF’s players say that Appleby is much more mobile than Luke Del Rio, and that his three-inch height advantage over Del Rio allows him to see the field better.
With all that said, there’s no 
question Appleby’s play dipped 
sharply in the second half against 
the Volunteers and that he’s less ac-curate than Del Rio. In the second half, he was sacked twice, he threw a pick and he led the offense to just one score. But as long as UF can get the ball in the hands of its playmak-ers, it won’t matter much if Del Rio or Appleby starts.
RW: What the heck happened 
in the second half in Knoxville last weekend, and what do you think the chances are of that poor play spilling over into Saturday’s game?
IC: That’s the question we’ve 
all been looking to answer. After the game, UF coach Jim McElwain 
blamed it on the players, the play-
ers blamed themselves and the fans blamed the coaches. Take your pick.
There’s no question that Flori-
da’s overconfident defense was ex-posed in the second half. After giv-ing up just three points through the first two quarters, the defense gave 
up big play after big play, and UF’s 
talented secondary looked lost. 
At the same time, I feel like the 
coaching staff coached scared. They ran the ball a majority of the third quarter and strayed away from what had gotten them a large lead in the first place: explosive passing plays.
RW: It’s rare to see four running 
backs each having a significant role in the offense, but Florida has four guys with more than 20 carries this year. How has this split worked out so far?
IC: At times, really well. McEl-
wain is big on spreading rushing 
duties among several players, so by 
the time the fourth quarter comes, they’re still relatively fresh. And, at other times, not so well. 
The main reason why Florida has a four-man rotation is that none have really stood out so far. Jordan Scar-lett and Jordan Cronkrite, both just sophomores, are the two most ex-perienced among players receiving carries in UF’s backfield. But junior 
college transfer Mark Thompson is 
the back who attracts the most at-tention with his size alone — he’s 6-foot-2, 237 pounds. And yet, coaches are in love with freshman Lamical Perine. He broke out with 105 rushing yards against Kentucky in Week 2, but has been quiet since.
Everyone’s been waiting for 
Thompson to have a breakout game of his own, so I’m interested to see if that finally happens against Vanderbilt on Saturday.
RW: The Gators had only al-
lowed 14 points through three games before allowing 38 to Ten-
nessee, but they still allowed fewer 
than four yards per carry to UT run-ning back Jalen Hurd. Teez Tabor and Marcus Maye get a lot of recog-nition in the secondary, but is the defense’s strength actually its play against the run?
IC: You could definitely make 
that argument. Florida usually uses 
a 10 player rotation on its defensive 
line, opting to keep its players fresh rather than leave the best players out there for a majority of the game. Plus, UF ranks eighth in the nation in rushing yards allowed per game at 76.5. But the Gators will have to make do without senior defensive lineman Joey Ivie this Saturday, 
who won’t play because of a hand 
injury.
RW: How do you see this one 
playing out? Make a score predic-tion, if you like.
IC: The Gators are coming off 
their worst loss in recent memory, and players and coaches are embar-
rassed. I’m expecting them to re-
spond in a big way. 
Florida wins, 27-10.
Q&A,  from pg13Appleby had five plays of 20 yards or more in first half vs. UT
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida qaurterback Austin Appleby passes during UF's 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Saturday at 
Neyland Stadium. With Luke Del Rio still injured, Appleby will likely start against Vanderbilt.  
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
CROSS COUNTRY By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
The last time a Florida cross 
country team travelled to the Paul 
Short Run at Lehigh University 
was in 2014.
Only the women went. Senior 
Taylor Tubbs was only a sopho-
more runner at the time and com-peted on a Gators team that was 
largely composed of underclass-
men talent.
The story heading into the 
2016 Paul Short Run on Satur-day hasn’t changed much for the Gators' runners since their last 
appearance at the meet.
Both the men and women’s 
teams are very young. For the 
men, 18 out of the 20 runners on the team are freshmen, sopho-
mores or redshirt sophomores, 
and nobody on the team has 
made the trip to Pennsylvania. And for the women, 15 out of the 18 athletes are underclassmen, 
with only Tubbs, senior Am-
ber Johnson and redshirt junior 
Becky Greene having competed at Lehigh University before.
“We’ve got to go out there 
with our ‘A-game’ and be ready 
to go come this Saturday,” coach 
Paul Spangler said. 
And the Gators’ “A-game” has 
been good so far this season.
The senior tandem of Carlos 
Miranda and Mac Reynolds will lead the men's team into Sat-urday’s meet. They have each placed together in the top five in the first two meets of the season. They are followed by a flurry of underclassmen talent in sopho-mores Jack Beitter, Jack Guyton, Magnus Pettersen and freshman Colin Schaefer, who have all post-ed top-10 finishes this season.
The Gator women have also 
shown a lot of promise from their young runners. Sophomores Elis-abeth Bergh, Lauren Perry and Noora Wallenius have finished in 
the top 10 along with freshmen 
Hannah Brookover and Jessica 
Pascoe. 
Yet for many of the young 
Florida athletes, the Paul Short 
Run will be an especially tough 
test.
This weekend’s meet features 
some of the most talented teams 
in the nation and is sure to be the 
Gators’ most challenging meet of 
the year so far. Spangler calls this 
meet the start of  “the meat and potatoes” of the teams’ schedules.
The men will be opposite top-
25 competition in No. 8 George-
town, No. 16 Iona and No. 25 
Columbia.
 The Gator women will expe-
rience a similar challenge, facing 
No. 19 Georgetown and No. 22 
Pennsylvania.
 “It’s a high level competition 
coming up,” said Spangler. “The 
last two (meets) have been good 
preparation for that.”
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgInexperienced Gators to face 
tough competition at Paul Short
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Redshirt senior Mac Reynolds runs during the Mountain Dew Invitational on Saturday at the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville. Reynolds has placed in the top five in each of the season's first two meets, finishing in third place at the Covered Bridge Open on Sept. 2 in Boone, North Carolina, and in fifth place at the Mountain Dew Invite.
Jack’s BBQ will win be-
cause…
I’ll keep this short and sweet: 
It’s a barbecue place named Jack’s 
in the deep south that sells sauce 
by the bottle. How can it lose?
-Ethan Bauer
Now onto the picks!In first place with a 19-13 record 
is alligatorSports editor Ian “I’ve 
gotta pee” Cohen, who stopped about a dozen times during the 
Knoxville road trip to relieve him-
self. Hey Ian, if you’re really that worried about whizzing in your car, why not just grab a couple of empty water bottles and call it a day?
In second place with an 18-14 
record is Edgar “S---, I have to 
watch my mouth?” Thompson, 
who had to hold back curse words during new UF athletics director Scott Stricklin’s introductory press conference on Tuesday because the Alligator editors were recording live video the entire time. Sorry for the hassle, Edgar, but maybe we’ll rub off on you and you’ll learn how 
to get through a sentence without 
spouting an expletive.
In third place with a 17-15 re-
cord is the Gainesville Sun’s Gra-ham “Homeless” Hall, who will be rooming with the Alligator football road crew in Nashville for the Vanderbilt game this week-end because he has nowhere else to stay and because no one loves him. Don’t take this personally, Graham, but just remember the next time you need to share a hotel room, your car always has a com-fortable trunk. 
In fourth place with a 16-16 re-
cord is assistant sports editor Ethan “Don’t sass me, Mac” Bauer, who confused UF coach Jim McElwain on Wednesday when he asked about a football player’s redshirt being taken off this week. Wait a minute, Ethan. I didn’t realize you were the color-blind sports editor. 
You should get that checked out.
We have a three-way tie for fifth 
place with 15-17 records.
First is staff writer Jordan “Call 
me Afroman” McPherson, who 
surprised the Alligator crew when he knew all the words to Afro-
man’s “Colt 45” when it came on 
the radio during our road trip to Knoxville last week. Don’t hide your true colors, Jordan. Beneath those glasses and short-sleeved flannel shirts, we know you’re a hardened, hip-hop aficionado. 
Next is 247sports.com’s Thom-
as “Too good for Vanderbilt” Goldkamp, who will be a healthy scratch from the UF media team this week as he holds down the fort in Gainesville. I’m sure you’ll have fun barhopping around Mid-town, bud. We’ll pour one out for you when we go to Broadway to-night.
Third is GatorCountry.com’s 
Nick “Clickbait” De La Torre, who headlined a story “Luke Del Rio returns to practice this week,” but didn’t mention that Del Rio was “highly doubtful” until three para-graphs into the story. We know you need those clicks to fund your Just For Men hair products, Nick, but try to be a little more honest next time. 
And in dead-ass-last with a 
piss-poor record of 13-19 is on-line sports editor Patrick “Baby face” Pinak, who we legitimately didn’t recognize after he shaved his beard earlier this week. Hey Patrick, who’s that timid-looking college freshman and what did you do with our online editor? Consider buying hair implants until it grows back. Trust us.
PICKS,  from pg13Vanderbilt ranks 102nd in the nation in scoring offense
16   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2016
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida soccer team’s 
dominance in the Southeastern 
Conference over the past decade 
has been undeniable.
UF has possessed a strangle-
hold on the SEC since 2006, winning eight out of 10 regular season titles behind an 88-17-7 record against conference oppo-nents over that span.
But the No. 18 Gators (7-3, 
2-2 SEC) now ﬁ  nd themselves in seventh place in the league’s standings more than a third of 
the way through their conference 
schedule.
It hasn’t been the start most 
expected.
 Recent losses to Arkansas and 
Auburn mean Florida will most 
likely need to be nearly perfect the rest of the way if it wants to repeat as SEC champions. 
UF has never won a regular 
season title with three conference 
defeats on its resume.
The Gators have seven match-
es remaining on their schedule, 
with their next contest coming at 
8 p.m. against unranked LSU (6-
6, 1-3 SEC) in Baton Rouge.
“I think we’re really motivat-
ed, especially now since we’ve 
had a couple losses,” redshirt ju-nior midﬁ  elder Gabby Seiler said.
 “I think we know where we 
stand and where we need to be, so I think going on the road is go-ing to be a huge motivation to get a huge win there.” 
One area of focus for Florida against the Tigers will be getting its offense going early on in the match.
UF possesses one of the most 
potent scoring attacks in the country, averaging 2.7 goals per 
game. 
However, the Gators have de-
veloped a pattern of starting out 
slow, with the majority of their scoring done in the second half or overtime periods.
Nineteen of the Gators’ 27 
goals this season have been scored after halftime. 
And over their past six match-
es, 14 of their 15 goals have been scored after halftime.
“I think it takes us 15-20 min-
utes to ﬁ  gure out what the other team is doing,” Seiler said. 
“So I think in the second half 
we come out and we know exact-ly what we’re going to do.”
LSU is one of the more physi-
cal teams Florida will face in its remaining schedule. 
The Tigers have committed 
107 fouls and received 10 yel-low cards this season, both third highest in the SEC. 
“I think the big thing for us is 
to make sure that we control the controllables for us,” Burleigh said. 
“All of the things that we’ve 
been talking about in our team, for example, patience in our of-fense, relentlessness in our de-fense, things like that. 
“I think those things we just 
have to do at a really high level.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org Despite dominant past, 
 UF struggling against SEC
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Becky Burleigh huddles with her team prior to its 3-2 win over UCF 
on Sept. 18 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
