We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 126 FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
Florida looking for receivers 
to step up
The Gators are still without Antonio Calla-
way and need to replace Jake McGee, pg. 13
Medal of Honor recipient chats with students
He earned the medal in 1952, pg. 5
Annual Holi Festival rescheduled
More than 1,000 people were expected to attend this weekend, pg. 8Easter Eggstravaganza
Avoiding bunny “dumping season, ” an underwater egg hunt, events this weekend and more, pg. 3
DOGGY DATE
Katie Callaghan, left, a 23-year-
old UF mechanical engineer-ing senior, and Margeux Des-saigne, a 20-year-old UF civil engineering sophomore, watch their dogs, Meeko, a 1-year-old catahoula mix, and Leonidas, a 1-year-old black labrador, play together on Plaza of the Americas on Thursday. The two owners said the dogs were best friends but were also dating.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
ABOUT 60 PEOPLE ATTENDED.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Erick Fortiz asked Michael Isajiw to Queer 
Prom with a chocolate, vanilla-frosted cup-
cake.
Fortiz, 20, said he didn’t want to go over-
board.
“Will you go to prom with me?” the Gigi’s 
Cupcakes box read.“I was really nervous,” the UF business 
management sophomore said. “I was afraid he was going to say no.”
The 18-year-old Santa Fe College veteri-
nary technology student said yes.
They were among a crowd of about 60 people who attended the masquerade-
themed prom at the Graham Hall Gallery on 
Wednesday night. 
The event was part of a monthlong cel-
ebration for Pride Awareness Month, hosted 
by the Pride Student Union.
The free event encouraged attendants 
to wear masks. Awards were given for cut-
est couples and for the “freshest dresser.” Instead of electing a prom king and queen, 
PAM royalty were elected.
Fortiz, who helped organize the event last year, said this year’s theme represents the suppression individuals feel from hiding their 
sexuality.
During the event, everyone would be 
asked to take off their masks to represent the 
unveiling of who they are, he said.
“We don’t have to hide behind a mask,” 
he said. “We don’t have to hide our identi-
ties. We can be open about who we are.”
Forty-ﬁ  ve minutes into the event, couples 
and friends hit the dance ﬂ  oor as colorful Prom encourages LGBTQ+ students to ‘unmask’
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
At about 10 p.m. Sunday, Ajalan Carter felt 
like something was wrong.
She closed her eyes and struggled to fall 
asleep for hours, later jolting to attention as 
her sister barged in at about 2 a.m.
“He’s gone,” she told Carter.“Who’s gone?”“Robert.”Robert Dentmond was dead, shot down by 
police as he stood in the middle of an apart-ment complex with what appeared to be a riﬂ  e.
He was Carter’s best friend. To honor his 
memory, Carter will host a memorial Sunday at 11 a.m. at Bartley Temple United Methodist Church, located at 1936 NE Eighth Ave.
“I think if they hear Robert’s story and 
mine, it will change the community greatly,” she said.
Dentmond, a 16-year-old high-school 
sophomore, armed himself with a BB gun and told authorities it was an assault riﬂ  e. He di-aled 9-1-1 at about 10 p.m. Sunday, stating he would soon shoot himself. After he failed to follow commands, nine police and deputies opened ﬁ  re.
When she ﬁ  rst heard the news, Carter’s 
eyes welled as she struggled to comprehend his death. Not much changed as she stayed at home for the next two days.
At Dentmond’s former home of Majestic Oaks, the streets would normally buzz with the sound of kids on Spring Break, yet silence pervades as the community makes sense of the shooting.
“It’s hard, but pray and know that he is 
where he’s supposed to be now,” she said.
      
Saturday night, Karen Green rocked her 
nephew to sleep on the sofa.
A day later, three bullets tore through the 
sofa’s fabric. Green’s nephew wasn’t there Sunday, and she decided to sit a couple inches from her normal spot.
The bullets had torn into her wall, through 
the middle of her sofa and into the TV across the room. Green, 59, began to shake as tears streamed down her cheek.
“That TV could have been us. That sofa Confusion, healing after teenager’s deathSEE PROM,  PAGE 4
SEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 4LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A former UF student died Thursday morn-
ing after his motorcycle crashed into a large 
truck near UF Health Shands Hospital.
At about 9 a.m., 22-year-old Andreas 
Dinopoulos drove his Kawasaki motorcy-
cle eastbound on Southwest Archer Road, 
Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben To-bias wrote in an email.
A large box truck turned onto Newell Drive, 
and Dinopoulos crashed into the truck’s rear wheel, Tobias said. 
Because the crash was so close to the hospi-
tal, multiple medical professionals and a doctor gave Dinopoulos ﬁ  rst aid, Tobias said. 
Though he wore a helmet, Dinopoulos was 
later pronounced dead at the hospital, Tobias said. 
Dinopoulos enrolled at UF in Summer 2012 
as a ﬁ  nance major. His last semester was Fall 2013, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
His family was notiﬁ  ed, Tobias said. His father, Elias Dinopoulos, teaches eco-
nomics at UF’s College of Liberal Arts and Sci-ences, Sikes wrote.
Witnesses told GPD the truck had nearly 
ﬁ  nished its turn when Dinopoulos made im-pact, Tobias said. 
They said his speed was a likely factor in 
the crash, Tobias said.
A trafﬁ  c homicide investigation will not be 
completed for several weeks, he said. 
The road was closed for about three hours. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org Son of UF 
professor dies in crash
A memorial will be held Sunday“W e don’t have to hide behind a mask. 
W e don’t have to hide our identities. 
W e can be open about who we are.”
Erick Fortiz
 UF business management sophomoreSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Friday Program: Holi Special 
at Krishna House
Come and attend this week’s Friday Program at Krishna House to celebrate Holi. The program starts at 7 p.m. with Mantra Meditation followed by an ice-breaker session and a talk on the significance of Holi and its celebrations. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week com-
plete with eternal knowledge 
by attending Friday programs 
at Krishna House. No registra-
tion is required. Come directly at 7 p.m. to the Krishna House, 
located at 214 NW 14th St.
‘Concussion’
In collaboration with 
GatorNights, Athlete Brain brings “Concussion,” starring Will Smith, to UF. Presented during Traumatic Brain Injury Awareness Month and in ex-tension of Brain Awareness Week, the night will kick off with free pizza and prizes at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. An expert Q&A panel featuring UF leaders in concussion health care and re-search will follow at 7:30 p.m. Arrive early — seats are lim-ited!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a 
“Kickin’ It Country”-themed 
event tonight from 8 p.m. un-
til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature a me-
chanical bull, old-time pho-
tos and live entertainment 
from the band Wax Wings. 
The event will also feature two showings of the movie 
“Concussion” at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. Free bowling and 
pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The 
night will end with free coun-
try breakfast during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free 
for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must 
be current students to partici-
pate. Students are allowed to 
bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
Gay Movie Night: ‘Capital 
Games’Tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Pride Community Center, lo-cated at 3131 NW 13th St., come see “Capital Games” with the Pride Community Center 
of North Central Florida. Take 
two ambitious men and one 
top Los Angeles advertising firm and add a competition for the same high-ranking 
job. Steve Miller, a tough ex-
cop for the Los Angeles Police 
Department, quit police work for the calm environment of a business office. Mark 
Richfield, the glamorous new 
kid in the office, soon wins favor with the big boss and co-workers, causing Steve to cringe in jealousy. After a cra-zy night in the Santa Fe desert, Steve becomes torn between passionate love and passionate hatred. Steve and Mark endure agonizing decisions that will affect their lives forever. Gay Movie Night is a free service of Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. A $2 donation is requested to cover the cost of snacks.
Multifaith Music Fest
On Saturday, the UF Interfaith 
Ambassadors will be hosting 
the inaugural Multifaith Music 
Fest, showcasing the diverse 
artistry of faith- and non-faith-
based groups in Gainesville. 
UF students and Gainesville 
nonprofit organizations are 
cordially invited to attend. 
Performances will take place 
Saturday on Flavet Field at 
7:30 p.m., and free food and 
water will be provided. The 
Multifaith Music Fest is the 
perfect way to spend a unique 
Easter weekend by listen-
ing to a variety of performers 
from all walks of religious and 
non-religious life. For event 
inquiries, please email Adam 
Gerstenfeld at interfaithuf@
gmail.com.
County library closed for 
EasterAll branches of the Alachua County Library District will be closed for Easter all day Sunday. All book drops and online services, including eB-ook checkouts at aclib.us, will be available. Both book-mobiles and all 12 library lo-cations in Alachua County will resume regular schedules Monday. For more informa-tion, visit aclib.us or contact Nickie Kortus at nkortus@aclib.us or 352-334-3909.Three Minute Thesis Final 
CompetitionThe UF Graduate School will host the third-annual Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competi-tion Tuesday at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The competition challenges doc-toral students to present their dissertation to a non-technical audience in three minutes or less. Along with helping grad-uate students hone their com-munication and presentation 
skills, winners will be award-
ed cash prizes. This competi-tion is open to the public. For more information, please visit 
graduateschool.ufl.edu/about-
us/events/3mt.
NASA Speakers Coming to UF
On Tuesday in the Computer 
Science and Engineering Building, Room E119, at 6:15 p.m., Larry Fineberg and Justine Treptow from NASA will speak about the Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array (NuSTAR) and systems engi-neering. Larry Fineberg works in launch services systems, while Justin Treptow works in the flight design branch. They will share their stories on some of the things they have worked on at NASA and the challenges they overcame. There will be food and drinks at the event, so come hear these amazing speakers as well as get to know other stu-dents from the Small Satellite Design Club.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To request publica-tion in the next day’s news-paper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 126
HIGH  81° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Live Music • Clean Fun • Vegetarian FoodColor Throws Every Half Hour!Festival ofColorsHoli
March 26
1 pm – 4 pm
17306 NW 112th Blvd
Alachua, FL 32615FREE
admission
www.colorflorida.com | 386.462.2017
Family friendly fun, no alcohol or drugs permitted The Mayapuris • Gauravani 
Krsnatone • Wynne Paris & 
the Groovananda Band
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
By Ainesey Foira
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Sunday’s chocolate has 
been eaten and all the plastic eggs 
have been found, a new season be-gins.
About three months after Easter, 
Gainesville Rabbit Rescue will face what it calls “dumping season,” said Kathy Finelli, the executive director of GRR.
Among the nonproﬁ  t organiza-
tion’s duties, Finelli said, GRR shel-ters rescue rabbits and educates owners.
GRR is a non-kill shelter that 
houses rabbits of different breeds and personalities, such as Kuro, who was named after the Japanese word for “black,” she said.  
Finelli said students often miss 
their pets from home, which leads them to buy an animal they can’t properly care for.
“Whenever Easter falls, about 
three months after is when those rabbits will sexually mature,” said 
Finelli.
Rabbits in heat become territo-
rial, she said, causing the females to 
become aggressive and the males to mark their space with urine.  
GRR offers a foster program that 
covers most expenses, such as a cage, hay, food, litter and medical support, she said. The program also provides foster parents with com-panionship free of long-term com-mitment.
Because GRR is a non-kill shelter, 
it has limited space, and the program creates room for other rabbits in dan-ger of being euthanized at a facility 
or killed on the streets.
Joe Richichi, the president of UF’s 
People for Animal Wellness, joined 
PAW members on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday to highlight issues facing rabbits.
“Over 80 percent of rabbits don’t 
live until their ﬁ  rst birthday,” he said.
Contrary to popular stereotypes, 
Finelli said, many students are valu-able to GRR.
“For us, the student population 
has been a blessing because we do have a lot of students that participate in our foster program,” she said.Shelter urges people to keep bunnies
SCUBA MONKEY DIVE 
CENTER HOSTS EGG HUNT.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local scuba divers will celebrate 
Easter by diving for hard-boiled eggs.
Tracey Boehnlein, an employee 
at Scuba Monkey Dive Center, will join her husband, Tim, and Tim’s 
brother, Joe, to host the company’s 
Fourth Annual Underwater Easter Egg Hunt on Saturday.
The event is scheduled for 4:30 
p.m. at Devil’s Den and will include hot dogs and hamburgers, she said.
“We’re always looking for differ-
ent things to do to make the dives special,” Boehnlein said.
Up to 85 scuba divers are ex-
pected to search for about 250 hard-boiled eggs, each marked with num-bers that correspond to prizes, she said. Each diver is allowed to claim 
three eggs. Boehnlein said divers 
might face unexpected competition during the hunt for eggs.
“If we miss them, the turtles and 
catﬁ  sh will eat them,” she said.
One competitor spot was open as 
of Wednesday, Boehnlein said, but spectators can join the spectacle for $10.
Prizes ranging in price from $350 
to $500 will be awarded to three divers who ﬁ  nd golden eggs, Tim Boehnlein said.
Taya Harstrom, a 17-year-old 
high-school junior at P.K. Yonge De-velopmental Research School, said she earned her scuba certiﬁ  cation in 
the summer of 2015.
Harstrom said she plans to attend 
the hunt and gain more diving expe-
rience.
“I like just being able to explore 
more,” she said. “When you don’t have oxygen, you have to come up for air and you can’t see as much.”Easter egg hunt in the Devil’s Den
Easter Feaster
UF Christian Legal Society is having an Easter lunch. 
Before the lunch, there will be a 10 a.m. Greenhouse Church service at the University Auditorium.
Best Buddies Easter Egg Hunt with Omega Phi Alpha and Phi Sigma PiSunday at 1 p.m. at the Levin 
College of Law
Monday at 6:30 p.m. on the Plaza of the AmericasO2B Eggstravaganza
Saturday at 10 a.m. at O2B Kids Supercenter. Free for members or $10 for non-members. Bounce house and carnival games will be available. There will be three Easter egg hunts, separated by age, for chil-dren 13 and younger
8 a.m. at 7922 NW 71st Street. Children can collect 
eggs during an Easter egg hunt. The plastic eggs will contain candy, but a number of them will also contain a voucher that can be turned in for a prize.UF IFAS Fishing for Success‘Dumping season’ is coming
Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
could have been us,” she said.
Hours after Dentmond died, a sheriff 
knocked on her door and asked if she was OK, 
later promising to reimburse her for the dam-age. They cannot, however, reimburse her peace of mind. With her doors and windows locked, Green thought she was safe.
Stuffed animals now surround a parking 
sign just inches from the spot Dentmond last stood. Cars and apartment buildings remain marked with bullet holes. Green said she be-lieves police and deputies should have handled Dentmond using non-lethal alternatives.
“The poor baby — he was just reaching out 
for help,” she said.
      
Carter said she served as Dentmond’s one 
conﬁ  dant.
Dentmond’s mother was in prison, and he 
never met his father, Carter said. The only male ﬁ  gures in his life were sports coaches at Buch-holz High School, where he attended classes before enrolling at Gainesville High School, she said.
At Majestic, Dentmond lived with his sister. 
Carter said she met Dentmond at her 14th birth-day party, and a bond later formed through shared suffering.
Self-inﬂ  icted scars on their chests served as 
an exterior reminder of the internal depression they both felt, she said. Dentmond even saved her from committing suicide, Carter said, and now she will share his story at Sunday morn-ing’s memorial.
“We went through it together,” she said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgMEMORIAL,  from pg 1Dentmond was 
16 years old
lights and a DJ made it feel like prom.
Alexandra Serrano, the director of the 
prom, said she’s been planning the event 
since Fall.
In high school, Serrano said she thought 
it was unfair that some students didn’t get to 
enjoy prom with a signiﬁ  cant other.
“I wanted this to be a space for people to 
be comfortable, regardless of society’s stan-dards,” the 22-year-old UF animal science senior said.
Savanna Cabrera, 19, won one of the cut-
est couple awards.
During the couple’s dance to “My Heart 
Will Go On” by Celine Dion, the UF zoology freshman Skyped with her girlfriend and 
danced.
Cabrera didn’t attend her high-school 
prom because she said it would’ve been un-
comfortable going with her girlfriend.
The prom, she said, was more accepting 
of same-sex couples.
“I felt a little more comfortable attend-
ing and dancing, which I never do,” Cabrera said.
Andy Mel, 19, whose preferred pronouns 
are they/them, and their best friend waltzed across the dance ﬂ  oor during the couple’s dance, where they won the second award for cutest couple.
The prom gave Mel the feeling of being 
in a movie scene, the UF sustainability stud-ies junior said. 
But instead of waiting for a guy to pick 
up the girl as in most movies, Mel attended prom with their best friend.
“I get my own version of that life, that 
rite of passage,” Mel said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgPROM,  from pg 1Promgoers removed their masks during the event
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Students in the UF College of 
Journalism and Communications 
are now only required to take one history class instead of two.
Students who came to UF after 
Summer B 2015 aren’t required to take American History to 1877 (AMH 2010). The change was part of a state initiative, Michael Weigold, the assistant dean of un-dergraduate affairs for the college, wrote in an email.
Those in the college will still 
need to take American History since 1877 (AMH 2020), he said.
He said while AMH 2020 still 
meets university general education 
requirements, AMH 2010 no longer does.
“So we adjusted accordingly to 
make sure students take classes 
that will help them graduate on time,” Weigold said.
Kristina Perez, 19, came into UF 
with the history classes completed, but she said taking both courses have helped her understand cur-rent events.
“(History is) crucial to under-
standing current events,” she said, adding that the Black Lives Matter movement wouldn’t make sense without the historical context of America’s history of segregation and the civil rights movement.
“I don’t think all history courses 
should become almost electives to a J-school student,” the telecom-munication freshman said.
She said she thinks removing 
the course won’t hurt students, but taking history classes can only help.
Dave Tegeder is teaching one 
course at UF this semester: AMH 2010. The UF history professor said the change in requirement reﬂ  ects changes in the state standard.
He said he thinks it’s important 
for students going into the ﬁ  elds of journalism and communications to understand the history of American culture and society.
“Oftentimes, what seems to be 
news needs to be put in larger con-text,” Tegeder said. “You need to understand the culture you work in.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org
UF journalism college gets rid of early-history requirementLOCAL
By Cynthia Lehrer
Alligator Contributing Writer
Krishna House opened a vegan and veg-
etarian bakery Wednesday.
Govinda’s Bakery and Cafe, located at 
604 NW 13th St., is open from 11 a.m. 
to 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday, said Caitanya Long, vice president and general manager of Krishna House.Starting April 3, the bakery will also 
serve Sunday brunch from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Long said the menu includes soups, sal-
ads, sandwiches and desserts.
Among the options are a curry burger, 
broccoli cheddar soup, barbeque baked tofu and walnut chocolate chip cookies, 
according to the restaurant’s website.
“We also wanted something that was re-
ally inexpensive that would ﬁ  ll people up and really satisfy them,” she said.  
Customers can combine two choices for 
$7.95, or they can opt for the “Full Plate”, 
which includes three choices and a dessert for $11.95, Long said.
Chloe Butler, a 19-year-old UF business 
sophomore, said some students schedule 
their classes around Krishna Lunch.
“To be able to go to a bakery where you 
can get this type of food any time would be really awesome,” she said.  
Sara Kopetman, a 19-year-old UF for-
estry sophomore, said she plans to visit 
Govinda’s in the future.
“There’s not a lot of vegan places 
around,” she said. “It’s a great business idea for them to open one because people 
already know they are good at making 
food.”    Vegan bakery owned by Krishna House opens on 13th Street
It was a state initiative
Naﬁ  sa Choudhury, an 18-year-old biochemistry sophomore, grabs Steven 
Remington, a 19-year-old computer science sophomore, to kiss him in front of a SNAP! Photo Booth at the Queer Prom, put on for Pride Awareness Month on Thursday night in the Graham Hall Gallery. Choudhury came with her LGBTQ+-identifying friend to meet new people.
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Andy Mel (left), a 19-year-old sustainability studies junior, dances with Iso Jones (right), a 22-year-old zoology major, to Celine Dion’s “My Heart Will Go On” at the Queer Prom. The freshman pair won a cutest-couple award for their dance moves.By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Cpl. Duane Dewey smiled under his wide-
brimmed hat as he shook hands with UF stu-
dent veterans Thursday morning.
Around his neck lay the Medal of Honor 
he received in 1952. The 85-year-old Ma-
rine veteran is Alachua County’s only living 
Medal of Honor recipient. He came to UF to celebrate national Medal of Honor Day, which was Thursday, said Randall Martin, who or-ganized the event. Dewey and four other Ko-rean War veterans spoke with students at the UF Collegiate Veterans Success Center about their experiences in the military.
Martin, the cabinet director of Veterans 
Affairs, said there was no cost for the event besides $150 for food. He wanted Dewey to 
come so students could meet a hero.
“It’s important to come meet them before 
they exit our world,” the 31-year-old said. 
“It’s also important for younger people who may not have great heroes in their life to come meet some actual heroes.”On April 16, 1952, in Panmunjom, Korea, 
Dewey jumped on a grenade to protect his comrades, wounding himself in the process. He spent about four months recovering in a hospital.
Dewey’s wife, Bertha Dewey, said a tele-
gram informed her Dewey was wounded in 1952. She waited for a letter from a friend to tell her Dewey would survive.
“It was kind of a whirlwind,” she said. 
“Everything was so fast.”
After returning to the U.S., then-president 
Dwight D. Eisenhower awarded the Medal of Honor, the military’s highest award for hero-ism, to Dewey.
“I couldn’t hardly believe it,” said Dewey.Dewey said he rarely spoke about his med-
al when he was younger. It was hard to speak publicly about it because he felt uneducated, having only gone to school until ninth grade.
Now, he tells students in middle schools 
about the Korean War and the importance of education.
“I love talking to younger people,” he said.  
Arline Broome, Dewey’s daughter, said 
there are two monuments dedicated to her fa-
ther. One is in his hometown of South Haven, Michigan, and the other is at the Kanapaha Veterans Memorial Park in Gainesville, where Dewey lives during winter.
Broome said her father is one of 77 living 
Medal of Honor recipients.
“If you stop and think about the numbers, 
chances are very slim you’re going to meet a Medal of Honor recipient,” she said.
Marcos Silva, a UF history junior and Ma-
rine veteran, said he looks up to Dewey.
“That’s what I admire the most; he sacri-
ﬁ  ced himself for his buddies,” the 25-year-old said. “I would do the same thing.”
He said it was an honor to meet Dewey.“We’re still Marines, so we’re brothers,” 
he said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
 Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Retired Marine and Medal of Honor recipient Cpl. Duane Dewey speaks with 
38-year-old UF materials science sophomore and Marine veteran Nate Adler at the Collegiate Veterans Success Center in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Thursday morn-ing. Dewey came to speak to student veterans about his experiences in the Korean War and receiving his Medal of Honor. 
 Medal of Honor recipient chats with students
By Renee Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Treble Makers will host nine other 
teams from across Florida for a new impro-
visational comedy invitational this weekend.
Nick Slater, a UF alumnus,  said he and 
four others organized the invitational where 
teams will act and think on their feet.
Teams from the University of South 
Florida and Florida Southern College will 
compete alongside UF groups. The event be-gins Friday in the Rion ballroom and will go through Sunday.
On Saturday, teams will act from 1 p.m. 
to 6:30 p.m. Four teams will compete at 8 p.m. in a  “Cagematch.” During this, the 
teams will be evaluated by judges for clever-
ness, originality and funniness.
“There is a lot of rich talent in Florida, 
and we wanted to just bring them together to meet each other, have fun and the main thing — to entertain,” Slater said.
He said the event will allow actors to 
meet and support one another. He said he hopes students come watch.
Eric Rose, the vice president of Theatre 
Strike Force, 22, will set the comedy scenes as a proctor for the group’s short-form team. That team performs shorter segments of im-prov throughout a roughly 25-minute period.
“We want to show the other schools what 
we’ve got,” the UF mechanical engineering senior said.  UF to draw 
laughs at ﬁ  rst Improv Invitational
IT’S FOR PALESTINE 
SOLIDARITY MONTH.
By Cecilia Lemus
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students for Justice in Palestine 
is using art to promote peace.
During Palestine Solidarity 
month, SJP is hosting three more 
events under the theme “Art Imi-tates Life,” wrote Amanda Nelson, the SJP secretary, in an email. The group decided to frame the month around art because it’s a medium to express ideas and stories.
“The things that are experienced 
by Palestinians can be traumatic, like being harassed at a checkpoint or even killed by (Israeli Defense Forces),” the UF political science and African studies senior said. “We want people to know what is really going on.”
Events will continue through the 
ﬁ  rst week of April, the 22-year-old said. The ﬁ  nal event will be a perfor-mance of the play “There is a Field.”Jen Marlowe, who wrote and 
produced the play, is performing in 10 states. This will be the play’s ﬁ  rst performance in Florida.
The play focuses on the police 
killing of a 17-year-old Palestinian 
citizen of Israel in 2000, she said.
“When the reason of the loss is 
because of state-sponsored violence 
and because of systemic racism and structural inequality, it is an unac-ceptable price for society to pay and humanity to pay,” she said.
Nelson said she hopes students 
learn about Palestine during the month.
“Come to events, ask questions, 
meet new people,” she said. “Learn about Palestinians, their struggles, their culture, their lives.”  Play to promote peace in PalestineSJP Events
 Today: Out of the Shadows art auction
 6 p.m. at Market Street Pub & Cabaret
 Tuesday: Confronting Occupation
 7 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 105
 Dezeray Lyn, an activist, will speak about 
 her experiences in the West Bank.
 April 2: “There is a Field”
 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
 Location to be announced
 Play written about the police killing of a 
 17-year-old Palestinian citizen of Israel 
 told mostly through the eyes of his sister.He earned the medal in 1952
“The things that are 
experienced by Palestinians 
can be traumatic, like being 
harassed at a checkpoint or 
even killed by (Israeli Defense 
Forces).”
Amanda Nelson
Students for Justice in Palestine 
secretaryThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
It’s been a difficult week, readers. We’ve seen tragedies 
both at home and abroad, and many of us are still reeling in 
the aftermath. But as the saying goes: Today is a new day 
filled with hope and opportunity. So thank you, readers, for 
tuning into our optimistic look forward, our lighthearted musings, our latest segment of….
Darts & Laurels
Fans of “The Daily Show with Trevor Noah” are like-
ly pretty pleased. Between Sen. Lindsey Graham’s, R-SC., appearance on the show Wednesday and Trevor Noah’s 
booked March 30 set here at our very own Phillips Center 
for the Performing Arts, we’re all getting a fairly potent dose of first-grade satire. We Alligator staffers are very excited, though some much more than others. For those of you who 
may be intimately familiar with our current opinions edi-
tor’s past columns — so maybe about five of you and his parents — you can probably surmise he fan-girls over “The Daily Show” hard enough for the rest of us. That poor boy needs to get a life.
Anyway, as for Graham’s appearance on the late-night 
talk show, it’s no secret he wants to appear “hip” and “cool” to us young whippersnappers by lambasting Trump and po-litically capitalizing off of this crazy election. But let’s ad-
mit: Who ever thought we’d all live to see the day when 
everyone’s favorite southern-belle senator would appear on national television to decree, “My party is completely screwed up,” with all the charm of his southern twang?
So, we give a laurel to both Lindsey Graham for mak-
ing our Wednesday night so very interesting and to Trevor 
Noah for keeping “The Daily Show” alive and well and for coming to visit us on our home turf. Though we definitely won’t overlook that hefty $90,000 stipend from UF he’s get-
ting — we’re guessing he probably factored that into his 
decision to visit us.
Unless you’ve been living under a rock, hours-deep in 
your Netflix binge session, you know it’s the year of face-offs: Sanders vs. Clinton, Trump vs. Cruz, Kasich vs. … 
really bad luck. But at the end of the day, the real face-off 
everyone’s been eagerly anticipating is “Batman vs. Super-man: Dawn of Justice,” which hit theaters today. Unfor-tunately, our press time is before the midnight showings of 
the film, so we still can’t write about the actual movie yet, 
but let it be known how eagerly we have been awaiting it. 
Obviously a well-executed Batman vs. Superman movie 
is every nerd’s secret wet dream, but the trailers for this film suggest a greater focus on factors other than Batman 
and Superman, such as the debut of Wonder Woman and a 
separate antagonist altogether. We’ll keep our mouths shut and give the film a laurel in good faith, but we at the Al-
ligator expect a movie worthy of fans’ adoration.
Lastly, we want to give a major shout-out and laurel to 
Burgurque for their “Free Burger” event Wednesday. Now, some of you may feel this is corporate sponsorship, free ad-vertisement for Burgurque, a pandering to the mainstream liberal burger-biased media: “What about other meals? All 
foods matter!” What can we say? We like food, especially 
when it’s free. 
Wait, what’s this? An all-laurel Darts & Laurels piece? 
Yes. Like we said, it’s been a rough week. Sometimes a little 
laughter — or at least a slight smirk — is all we need to lift 
our spirits, even if only a little amid tough times. Till next we meet, readers.Check your food privilege before judging obesity
Obesity in the U.S. is a problem. At a whopping 35 percent of U.S adults, it may even be an epidemic. While 
the severity of this phenomenon is 
undeniable, there’s a certain attitude 
commonly adopted toward obese people that bothers me. “Why don’t they just EAT less?” 
a friend once asked me, “or, like, not eat gar-
bage? Try a salad!” She said this while push-ing a grocery cart full of $3 strawberries and $5 organic lettuce.
She didn’t mean to sound entitled. The profile of 
the “fat, lazy American” is one I often hear described when addressing the topic of obesity. However, what many fail to consider is healthy, nutrient-rich food isn’t a commodity everyone can afford. 
A survey conducted by the University of Washington 
found that 1,000 calories of high-calorie “junk foods” cost an average of $1.76, while 1,000 calories of low-calorie “nutritious foods” cost an average of $18.16. Therefore, it should come as no surprise that in a na-
tional sample of 6,000 adults, lower wages correlated 
with higher body mass indexes. Even more strongly correlated was income’s relationship with childhood obesity; the likelihood of severe childhood obesity was 
approximately 1.7 times higher among poor children 
and adolescents.
I realize poverty isn’t the main culprit. Obesity is 
still mostly a side effect of lifestyle choices. There are Americans who are obese despite high income and 
Americans who are not obese even though they cannot 
afford healthy food. 
Factors such as portion control, exercise and natu-
ral metabolism all play a role. That is why I wish to 
emphasize that while poverty may not cause obesity, 
it certainly influences how easily it is prevented and controlled.
When discussing this with my health-nut 
friends, a common retort I hear is that there 
are ways of circumventing the high prices of 
healthy food. A combination of farmers mar-kets, grocery store discounts and eating in-season should do the trick, right? 
As someone who takes advantage of all of 
those, I can tell you it doesn’t. Sure, it’s a lot less expensive than it would be otherwise, but it doesn’t compare to the money saved by 
eating ramen or bulk frozen food. 
Also, taking advantage of these options requires 
another commodity many impoverished families don’t have: time. A single mother working multiple jobs probably doesn’t view driving to every store in town 
for a good deal as a viable alternative to buying cheap-
er, less healthy food at her local Sam’s Club.
Another common retort is that more money is saved 
in the long run by maintaining a healthy diet. True, fewer medical costs will be incurred, and individuals 
can live as productive members of the workforce for 
longer due to increased vitality. Long-term planning, however, is yet another luxury those living paycheck-to-paycheck cannot have.
I am blessed enough to have been raised with two 
working parents who were able to provide balanced, nutritious meals for me throughout my life. I realize this is an incredible privilege I should be endlessly grateful for. 
That’s why I urge you, before sneering at people 
for their weight and eating habits, to contemplate your own food privilege and how it might differ from theirs. Better yet, just don’t judge them at all.
Namwan Leavell is a UF economics senior. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Namwan 
Leavell
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“Aw Jesus, here 
too?” — was es-sentially my reac-
tion to news that, 
Sunday night, 
nine ofﬁ  cers opened ﬁ  re on Robert Dentmond, a 16-year-old 
holding a replica riﬂ  e. Dentmo-
nd died shortly thereafter — af-ter all, nine people shot at him.
I got mad. Mad, but not surprised. Why 
should the overuse of violence by police, 
our national shame, not taint our commu-
nity, too?
And what the hell can I do about it? My 
anger fades to apathy once I realize I really 
can’t do anything. Nothing concrete, any-
way: The best I can do is get mad, write about how mad I am and hope, in vain, it makes even the slightest difference. In the end, it’s not any more effective than if I 
posted a similar rant on Facebook.
The editorial, though: That’s where I 
expected to ﬁ  nd some real outrage, or at 
least a hard opinion. Editorials aren’t one 
person’s opinion; they represent the view 
of the entire paper, and they come with a good deal more legitimacy and weight than the ramblings of an individual, no matter how informed or handsome that 
individual writer may happen to be.
I know this because I was the one writ-
ing them a year ago. It’s an important job. 
Sometimes, I imagine, people actually 
read the editorials and engage with them. 
Agree, disagree — who cares! It’s a free country, and if something pisses you off you can send in your very own retort. The opinions editor will be grateful, believe 
me.
Ironically, this is where I ﬁ  nd myself 
now — writing in response to Wednes-
day’s editorial, which used 500 words to 
say nothing at all.
My name and face are in this paper; I 
used to work in that ofﬁ  ce, and I’m em-
barrassed to be associated with the com-placency of that editorial, which took 
more effort to cover law enforcement’s 
ass than the ofﬁ  cers did. I’ll be damned if I let the Alligator kick back and join the litany of voices endorsing business as usual, to shrug and sigh — “who’s to say?”— as if a child weren’t dead by some ofﬁ  cers’ 
hands. Echoing the National 
Riﬂ  e Association, the Alligator criticized those who would use this tragedy for a political end, 
to “prove a point” — not real-
izing that this criticism, too, is itself a political stance.
The Alligator gained its independence 
when, in the early ‘70s, the paper ﬂ  outed 
the authority of then-UF President Ste-
phen C. O’Connell and published address-es of known abortion clinics. From that moment forward, the Independent Florida 
Alligator held the privilege and the free-
dom to write and report without interfer-ence or restraint from the administration or Student Government. This proud legacy of ﬁ  ghting the establishment, wherever it 
may be found, was casually tossed aside 
Wednesday out of deference to the police, the status quo and misguided devoti  on to total objectivity.
Do I believe the ofﬁ  cers murdered 
Dentmond in cold blood, the way Walter Scott and Eric Garner were? No. But I do ﬁ  rmly believe it was handled recklessly. Under no circumstance is it necessary or 
good for nine people to open ﬁ  re on a per-
son for disobeying orders. 
It’s a miracle no one else was injured or 
killed, because stray bullets shot through 
at least two apartments and a car. Even 
with the understanding that they didn’t know the gun was fake, shooting Dent-mond was the most short-sighted solution imaginable.
Hell, if you don’t want to talk about 
police brutality, at least mention mental health. But even that brings us back to po-lice violence: Dentmond wished to end his 
life and correctly trusted the police to kill 
him, if only he appeared threatening.
The Alligator could’ve said so much. 
Instead, it published the standard “suicide in the community” platitudes, wreathed 
with love for our boys in blue. I am 
ashamed.
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column appears on Fridays.A response to Wednesday’s editorialColumn
Dear President Fuchs,
My name is Lia Meri-
vaki, and I am a doctoral 
candidate in political sci-
ence at UF. During my 
academic studies at UF, I have served as a teaching assistant in 
large introductory undergradu-
ate courses in political science, I have instructed my own courses in American and European politics and I have conducted independent and collab-
orative research, all while completing my 
graduate studies and my dissertation.
I am also a co-president of Graduate As-
sistants United, the labor union that repre-sents over 4,000 research assistants, teach-
ing assistants and other graduate assistants 
at UF. On behalf of all graduate assistants at UF, GAU negotiates the terms of our em-ployment with UF’s administration, includ-ing but not limited to stipends, health care beneﬁ  ts for graduate assistants and their 
dependents, family leave and fees.
I am writing in response to your guest 
column, in which you shared some of your 
experiences as a college student and gradu-
ate assistant, highlighting how the student 
loan debt you incurred in the process was the best investment you have ever made. In your guest column, while recognizing the importance of affordable tuition and funds 
for “facilities, recruiting faculty and opera-
tions,” you also called on UF to work more on faculty and graduate assistant funding.
We are very grateful you shared your 
story and that you consider faculty and graduate assistants integral to UF’s plan to “be among the na-tion’s very best public universi-
ties.” Graduate assistants make 
a major contribution toward achieving this goal, as they are responsible for conducting much 
of the rigorous research, teaching 
and innovation that takes place here at UF while receiving mini-
mal recognition.
We also share your commitment to ﬁ  nd-
ing “additional revenues to invest more in our faculty and graduate assistants.” GAU has been ﬁ  ghting year after year for higher stipends and lower fees, while gaining only 
limited traction with UF’s administration. 
During last Fall’s long negotiation round, we were happy to see, for the ﬁ  rst time, UF agreed to stipend increases that beneﬁ  ted all of our graduate assistants equitably. More 
importantly, UF’s administration agreed to 
make fee relief a mandatory subject of bar-gaining. Graduate assistants across campus are thrilled with this positive development, 
as fee relief has been an issue GAU has de-
bated with UF in previous years.
However, we have a lot of work left to 
do. More than a quarter of UF’s graduate assistants earn below the federal poverty 
line after paying fees. As a consequence, 
GAU strongly advocates for signiﬁ  cant fee relief — our graduate assistants should not be paying to work. Addressing fees would 
bring an immediate improvement to the 
economic circumstances graduate assistants currently face.
On behalf of GAU, let me say I am glad 
we have you on our side. But now is the 
time to move beyond words and start mak-
ing tangible changes that will positively im-pact graduate assistants at UF.
We invest our hearts and minds in our 
students while excelling at our graduate studies.
We value our graduate assistants. Isn’t it 
time for UF to do the same?
Lia Merivaki is a co-president of Gradu-
ate Assistants United.A response to President Fuchs: We are, 
too, making the biggest investmentGuest column
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.org
Lia Merivaki
Speaking Out
“W e invest our 
hearts and minds in 
our students while 
excelling at our 
graduate studies.”8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
WORKERS IN STEM OCCUPATIONS
EARN 1.7 TIMES MORE
THAN THE NATIONAL ANNUAL AVERAGE WAGE
Are you                                   ?
Are you                                   ?
LOOKING TO 
STAY IN THE SWAMP?
WE CAN HELP YOU 
START YOUR STEM CAREER 
HERE IN GAINESVILLE. 
VISIT OUR TABLE AT 
“STAY IN THE SWAMP” TODAY!
CAMPUS
By Matt Brannon
Alligator Contributing Writer
An annual Indian festival has 
been postponed due to potential 
rain. 
More than 1,000 people were ex-
pected to pelt each other with pack-
ets of colored paint during UF Indian 
Student Association’s fourth Holi festival. The event, which celebrates the start of spring, was supposed to 
be Saturday. The group estimated it 
would cost about $7,000.
Dhara Patel, a co-director of the 
festival, said the event will likely be pushed back to April. It wouldn’t have gone well in the rain because of soggy food and potential issues with the DJ’s equipment.
Called the Festival of Colors, Pa-
tel said students throw colors to cel-ebrate spring’s changing colors. 
“The powder would be affected, too, because as soon as it comes in contact with water, it would clump together,” the 20-year-old UF micro-
biology and cell science sophomore 
said. “It wouldn’t be as fun to play with.”
The festival was supposed to take 
place for the ﬁ  rst time on Norman Field, said Anjelika Chatwal, the for-mer director and current co-director of the festival.
They also got Mr. Magnum, the 
DJ from Magic 101.3, to play Indian music, the 21-year-old UF behavioral and cognitive neuroscience junior said.
Chatwal said while she was sad 
to cancel the event, having it in the rain would have ruined the festivi-ties.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a sad situation 
for us,” she said. “Both Dhara and I have been working really hard to ﬁ  gure out the best solution for this.”  Annual Holi festival 
rescheduled By Ralph Duvers
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF associate professor is 
hoping to teach more people how 
to make pureed hamburger and French toast.
Wendy Dahl created the Pu-
reed Foods program to educate people on how to make pureed food for those with cancer, Par-kinson’s disease and dysphagia, all of which make swallowing more difﬁ  cult. Pureed foods are created by mashing, grinding or chopping food.
She’s hoping to raise about 
$15,000 to expand her program to be online and in Spanish, Dahl said.
She came up with the idea for 
the workshops about pureeing food when she was in graduate school, she said. While giving a presentation on ﬁ  ber, a mem-ber of the audience asked her if she had considered those who couldn’t swallow.
“With pureed foods, we want 
people to eat,” Dahl said. “If they don’t eat, they become malnour-ished, end up in the hospital or worse.”
Now, she teaches workshops 
on making tasty pureed food throughout Florida, she said.
“It’s like a traveling road 
show,” Dahl said.
At the start of the workshop, 
Dahl lectures about how to make the food, said Amanda Ford, a 27-year-old UF nutritional science graduate student. During the sec-ond half, audience members cre-ate their own puree. Most people 
make mashed potatoes or oat-
meal.
“The program gives people the 
chance to experiment and try new approaches while learning how to make food for their loved ones,” Ford said.
Dahl said expanding her pro-
gram would allow those outside 
the state to learn about the pos-
sibilities for pureeing food. The online workshops might resemble cooking shows, in which she’ll teach some of her recipes and have viewers try pureeing on their own.
She said she hopes she can 
one day offer certiﬁ  cation for pre-
paring pureed foods through her 
course.
Dahl wants people to know pu-
reed food doesn’t have to be bor-ing, she said.
“One thing most people don’t 
realize is that anything can be pu-reed, even alcoholic drinks,” Dahl said.  Professor hopes to spread puree
ABOVE: 
Cathy Gloria, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  lm and media studies freshman, 
stretches before dancing with her Sabor Latino team at the Phil-lips Center for the Performing Arts on Thursday night for the 2016 VISA T alent Show. Multicultural groups delivered a variety of per-formances in the VISA T alent Show.
LEFT: 
The Indian Student Association’s GatoRaas group performed a tra-ditional West Indian dance on Thursday.
Photos by Isabel Bonnet/Alligator Staff
DANCING AROUND THE WORLDShe aims to raise $15,000
“The program gives people 
the chance to experiment and 
try new approaches while 
learning how to make food 
for their loved ones.”
Amanda Ford
UF nutritional science grad studentFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Sublease @ Lux13 Apartments!3 Bed/3 Bath with screened patioW/D, Cable, Internet, & HBO$1,222/mo & Pet FriendlyAvail. April 1st , 985-974-5404    3-28-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
CHURCH FURNITURE: Does your church need pews, pulpit set, baptistery, steeple, windows?  Big Sale on new cushioned pews and pew chairs – 1-800-231-8360.  www.pews1.com    3-25-1-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!! Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast! Running or Not. Nationwide Free Towing. Same Day Pick-Up And Pay Available: Call 888-689-8647    3-25-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD student or Veteran student, with several years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking & meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@gmail.com. Background check required, must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000    3-31-5-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    3-25-1-14Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
ATTN: Drivers-
$2k Sign-On Bonus$$ RECENT PAY INCREASE $$ Make Over $60,000 your first year!Newer KW T660 and T680’s CDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    3-25-1-14
CUSTOMER SERVICE/ HELP DESK SPECIALIST! Online career training gets you the skills you need now! COMPANIES HIRING OUR GRADS! Call for details! HS Diploma/GED & PC/Internet needed! 1-888-926-6058    3-25-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    3-25-1-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
 
 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Jorge Garcia and the Florida 
men's golf team are looking to rebound after its last-place ﬁ  nish.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Dressel wins NCAA title
Florida swimming sophomore Caeleb Dressel won the NCAA Championship 
in the 50-yard freestyle on Thursday, ﬁ  nishing in 18.20 seconds. His mark broke the  NCAA and world record. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.UF COACH KEVIN O'SULLIVAN 
HAS A 13-13 RECORD AGAINST 
THE WILDCATS.
 By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
 
The No. 1 Gators (22-1, 3-0 Southeast-
ern Conference) are off to their best start 
in school history.
Currently on a 16-game winning 
streak, Florida has a chance to break its 
18-straight win record this weekend as it 
battles Kentucky in Lexington for a three-
game series starting tonight at 6:30.
But the Wildcats (15-5, 2-1 SEC) 
haven’t exactly been pushovers in past years.
UK was one of three SEC teams to win 
a conference series against UF last year.
The last time Florida won a series 
against Kentucky was in 2012, back when 
now-major leaguers Preston Tucker and 
Mike Zunino stacked the middle of UF's lineup. 
The only Gator still on the team from 
that season is senior catcher Mike Fah-
rman.
The Wildcats are off to a solid start in 
the SEC after swiping two of three games 
from Georgia last weekend, pounding out 
a combined 27 runs in the process.Dominant Florida baseball meets Kentucky on road
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When Florida needed someone 
to step up in passing situations last 
season, two speciﬁ  c players — Jake 
McGee and Antonio Callaway — 
often did.
The Gators no longer have that 
luxury. 
With McGee lost to gradua-
tion and Callaway’s future with the team still uncertain, coach Jim McElwain has been tasked with ﬁ  nding playmaking pass-catchers to ﬁ  ll the void this Spring. And so 
far, it’s been difﬁ  cult. 
Ahmad Fulwood, who’s coming 
off the worst of his three seasons at 
Florida, was expected to contribute 
as a veteran, but has been limited 
after he “pulled a leg” earlier in Spring practice, according to McEl-wain. Junior college transfer receiver 
Dre Massey, who’s expected to come in and contribute immediate-
ly out of the slot, is also being held 
out with a similar injury. 
Despite those setbacks, McEl-
wain is still conﬁ  dent in the rest of 
the team’s receiving corps.
“We’re excited to see what Chris 
Thompson does,” McElwain said. 
“Alvin Bailey should be back, and we need to get some production out of him.”
In addition, McElwain expects 
four-star early enrollees Josh Ham-mond and Freddie Swain to com-pete for playing time come fall. 
“Those guys are obviously gon-
na get a ton of reps,” he said of the freshman duo. 
“Those guys have both been do-
ing a good job. They’re learning.”
But it isn’t just the receivers 
who are expected to ﬁ  ll the void. McGee was, after all, a tight 
end. Aside from his two replace-ments — C’yontai Lewis and DeAn-dre Goolsby — McElwain was also very high on some of the position's lesser-known players. 
“Moral Stephens is a guy that’s 
really elevated through his off-season and now there’s a real op-portunity to jump in there now 
with C’yontai and Gools [DeAn-
dre Goolsby],” he said. “Camrin Knight, who took reps for us last year, and when you see the guy kind of run out there you might go, 
‘jeez, who’s that guy?’ Well, it’s be-
cause he’s grown up a little bit.”
Backﬁ  eld showcasing depthIt’s unlikely that walk-on Mark 
Herndon will be Florida’s starting tailback come fall. 
Nevertheless, McElwain has 
been happy with the progress the redshirt senior has made this 
spring.
“I think he’s back from the leg McElwain conﬁ  dent in receiversMIND OF MAMINAKIS
In his ﬁ  rst season, 
Mike White wanted to be competitive, and he wanted to have a chance. 
He preached that 
message all season 
when discussing Flor-
ida’s upcoming oppo-nents.
And in his ﬁ  rst year 
at the helm of the Flor-
ida basketball program, the 39-year-
old coach did just that. He put his 
team in position to have a chance — a good chance — at a Southeast-ern Conference Tournament run, an NCAA Tournament appearance and even an NIT run. 
Unfortunately, the Gators came 
up short in each of those pursuits. 
Still, there is renewed hope for 
Florida basketball. 
It's no secret that the program 
is in a rebuilding phase. The shoes Billy Donovan left be-hind are massive, but Mike White, in just one year, has proven that he is more than capable of 
ﬁ  lling them. 
Florida ﬁ  nished the 
season with a 21-15 
record and a 9-9 mark in SEC play. That’s an improvement from last year’s 16-17 record and 
8-10 performance in conference play, which led to Florida being left out of 
the NIT.
Remember, even Donovan’s ﬁ  rst 
year as head coach in 1996 was a 13-
17 campaign when Florida went 5-11 in the SEC. 
This year, White worked with 
what he had and what he inherited. He knew this wasn’t a team that was going to light up defenses with im-
pressive shooting performances. Despite missing out on NCAAs, 
White's ﬁ  rst year was positive
Alex
Maminakis
twitter: @alexmaminakis
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15Fulwood, Massey are injured
Logan Shore pitches during Florida's 6-2 win over 
Missouri on March 18 at McKethan Stadium.
Luis T orres / Alligator StaffHeadline
Story description Pg#
Kayli Kvistad and the Florida 
softball team face LSU on the road this weekend.Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Dressel wins NCAA title
Florida swimming sophomore Caeleb Dressel won the NCAA Championship 
in the 50-yard freestyle on Thursday, ﬁ  nishing in 18.20 seconds. His mark broke the  NCAA and world record. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.UF COACH KEVIN O'SULLIVAN 
HAS A 13-13 RECORD AGAINST 
THE WILDCATS.
 By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
 
The No. 1 Gators (22-1, 3-0 Southeast-
ern Conference) are off to their best start 
in school history.
Currently on a 16-game winning 
streak, Florida has a chance to break its 
18-straight win record this weekend as it 
battles Kentucky in Lexington for a three-
game series starting tonight at 6:30.
But the Wildcats (15-5, 2-1 SEC) 
haven’t exactly been pushovers in past years.
UK was one of three SEC teams to win 
a conference series against UF last year.
The last time Florida won a series 
against Kentucky was in 2012, back when 
now-major leaguers Preston Tucker and 
Mike Zunino stacked the middle of UF's lineup. 
The only Gator still on the team from 
that season is senior catcher Mike Fah-
rman.
The Wildcats are off to a solid start in 
the SEC after swiping two of three games 
from Georgia last weekend, pounding out 
a combined 27 runs in the process.Dominant Florida baseball meets Kentucky on road
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When Florida needed someone 
to step up in passing situations last 
season, two speciﬁ  c players — Jake 
McGee and Antonio Callaway — 
often did.
The Gators no longer have that 
luxury. 
With McGee lost to gradua-
tion and Callaway’s future with the team still uncertain, coach Jim McElwain has been tasked with ﬁ  nding playmaking pass-catchers to ﬁ  ll the void this Spring. And so 
far, it’s been difﬁ  cult. 
Ahmad Fulwood, who’s coming 
off the worst of his three seasons at 
Florida, was expected to contribute 
as a veteran, but has been limited 
after he “pulled a leg” earlier in Spring practice, according to McEl-wain. Junior college transfer receiver 
Dre Massey, who’s expected to come in and contribute immediate-
ly out of the slot, is also being held 
out with a similar injury. 
Despite those setbacks, McEl-
wain is still conﬁ  dent in the rest of 
the team’s receiving corps.
“We’re excited to see what Chris 
Thompson does,” McElwain said. 
“Alvin Bailey should be back, and we need to get some production out of him.”
In addition, McElwain expects 
four-star early enrollees Josh Ham-mond and Freddie Swain to com-pete for playing time come fall. 
“Those guys are obviously gon-
na get a ton of reps,” he said of the freshman duo. 
“Those guys have both been do-
ing a good job. They’re learning.”
But it isn’t just the receivers 
who are expected to ﬁ  ll the void. McGee was, after all, a tight 
end. Aside from his two replace-ments — C’yontai Lewis and DeAn-dre Goolsby — McElwain was also very high on some of the position's lesser-known players. 
“Moral Stephens is a guy that’s 
really elevated through his off-season and now there’s a real op-portunity to jump in there now 
with C’yontai and Gools [DeAn-
dre Goolsby],” he said. “Camrin Knight, who took reps for us last year, and when you see the guy kind of run out there you might go, 
‘jeez, who’s that guy?’ Well, it’s be-
cause he’s grown up a little bit.”
Backﬁ  eld showcasing depthIt’s unlikely that walk-on Mark 
Herndon will be Florida’s starting tailback come fall. 
Nevertheless, McElwain has 
been happy with the progress the redshirt senior has made this 
spring.
“I think he’s back from the leg McElwain conﬁ  dent in receiversMIND OF MAMINAKIS
In his ﬁ  rst season, 
Mike White wanted to be competitive, and he wanted to have a chance. 
He preached that 
message all season 
when discussing Flor-
ida’s upcoming oppo-nents.
And in his ﬁ  rst year 
at the helm of the Flor-
ida basketball program, the 39-year-
old coach did just that. He put his 
team in position to have a chance — a good chance — at a Southeast-ern Conference Tournament run, an NCAA Tournament appearance and even an NIT run. 
Unfortunately, the Gators came 
up short in each of those pursuits. 
Still, there is renewed hope for 
Florida basketball. 
It's no secret that the program 
is in a rebuilding phase. The shoes Billy Donovan left be-hind are massive, but Mike White, in just one year, has proven that he is more than capable of 
ﬁ  lling them. 
Florida ﬁ  nished the 
season with a 21-15 
record and a 9-9 mark in SEC play. That’s an improvement from last year’s 16-17 record and 
8-10 performance in conference play, which led to Florida being left out of 
the NIT.
Remember, even Donovan’s ﬁ  rst 
year as head coach in 1996 was a 13-
17 campaign when Florida went 5-11 in the SEC. 
This year, White worked with 
what he had and what he inherited. He knew this wasn’t a team that was going to light up defenses with im-
pressive shooting performances. Despite missing out on NCAAs, 
White's ﬁ  rst year was positive
Alex
Maminakis
twitter: @alexmaminakis
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15Fulwood, Massey are injured
Logan Shore pitches during Florida's 6-2 win over 
Missouri on March 18 at McKethan Stadium.
Luis T orres / Alligator StaffBy Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
The last time the UF softball 
team faced LSU in the regular sea-
son, the Tigers won the series by taking two out of three games on the road. 
This weekend, the Gators will 
try for a different outcome.
No. 1 Florida (30-1, 5-1 South-
eastern Conference) will travel to 
Baton Rouge for a three-game set 
against No. 7 LSU (26-5, 3-3 SEC) 
with a doubleheader slated to be-gin tonight at 5. 
“(It’s) gonna be tough for our 
team to go out there and play 
well,” coach Tim Walton said. 
“They present a lot of chal-
lenges. Great pitching staff, a lot of 
depth, a very athletic team and a 
team that always plays well, espe-
cially at home.” 
Although Florida struggled of-
fensively in its recent series against 
Tennessee, the Gators have seen 
an increase in production from 
Kayli Kvistad and Justine McLean. 
While freshman Amanda Lo-
renz has cooled off considerably 
— her batting average has dropped 
.125 points from .520 to .395 since 
March 5 — Kvistad has been a 
steady run producer in the middle of the Gators’ lineup. 
Among players with at least 60 
at  bats, the sophomore leads the team in batting average (.435), RBIs (32), slugging percentage (.710) and on-base percentage (.543). 
McLean — who saw her career-high eight-game hitting streak end on Sunday — has raised her batting average to .429 and has been Flori-da’s most consistent hitter over the past two weeks. “Me and coach (Sharonda Mc-
Donald) have worked really hard this year on just swinging on bet-ter pitches and getting in better counts,” McLean said.  “I think having her here has re-
ally boosted my confidence, so it’s nice to see that all the hard work is just paying off.” 
While her recent success at the 
plate has been noteworthy, she has also been solid defensively, not committing an error all season. 
Her prowess was on full dis-
play against Tennessee when she gunned down a runner at second base on a throw from right field. 
“This is probably one of the 
best outfields I’ve been a part of,” McLean said. 
As a team, Florida owns the top 
defense in the nation with just 11 errors all season and a near-perfect .986 fielding percentage. 
UF is 24-32 all time against 
LSU and only 9-15 away from Gainesville.   
The Gators will have to ensure 
they stay sharp this weekend in or-der to return home with the series win. 
“This stretch of our schedule 
is gonna be really, really tough,” coach Walton said. 
“Being number one’s not always 
what it’s all cracked up to be, but I think our players handle it very well and do a good job preparing every single day.”  
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.org Florida softball to face LSU this weekend in Baton Rouge
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kayli Kvistad swings during Florida’s doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17.
The Univ ersity of Florida AHE C Program pr ovides y ou with all the  tools y ou nee d to quit!
Program covers all forms of tobacco.
Sponsored by the UF AHEC Tobacco Free Florida Cessation Program and the Florida Department of Health.
 More than DOUBLES your chances of success!
 Includes FREE nicotine patches/gum/lozenges!
 Convenient ON- and OFF-CAMPUS locations!
Call 352.265.9569 to ﬁnd out more.
Did You Know?
Learn to LiveWithout Tobacco.
Help is FREE!
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016The Gators shot 42.6 percent from the field 
this season, 245th in the country in that cat-
egory, and 31.9 percent from beyond the arc, 290th in the country. But give White and the Gators credit — they kept games competitive. They gave themselves a chance. 
Remember UF's 58-52 road loss to then-
No. 1 Michigan State? Or the 71-68 road loss to 
then-No. 15 Texas A&M? How about its home 
win against then-No. 9 West Virginia? 
The Gators just missed the cut for an NCAA 
tourney berth and ended the regular season on a 1-4 skid, but Florida showed flashes this year, and that is encouraging for the future. I know, Florida fans don’t want to hear about the future. They want to win now. 
But winning is a process, and White, with 
just one season under his belt, seems to be ahead of schedule.
Freshmen KeVaughn Allen and Kevarrius 
Hayes and redshirt sophomore John Egbunu make up the young core that will develop over the next couple of years under White. 
Allen’s 418 points as a freshman trailed just 
Nick Calathes (552), Bradley Beal (546) and Kenny Boynton (476) for the most in a fresh-man season over the last 20 years. His 32 points on Dec. 29 against FSU were the fifth-most in a game by a UF freshman in school history. 
Egbunu was third on the team in scoring this 
year behind departing redshirt senior Dorian Finney-Smith and, encouragingly, Allen. Eg-bunu shot 59.1 percent from the field and estab-lished himself as a force to be reckoned with in years to come. The center is still very raw, but has limitless potential. 
And Hayes showed what he is capable of 
when he filled in for the injured Egbunu in the NIT, shooting 13-of-14 from the field and 6-of-6 from the free-throw line in three games.
An NIT run that saw Florida finally start to 
develop a consistent offensive groove sends the Gators into the offseason somewhat satisfied, but still not content. 
They have something to prove. 
Alex Maminakis is a sports writer. You can 
contact him at amaminakis@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @alexmaminakis.injury that he had,” McElwain said. “I really 
think he’s doing a heck of a job.”
But even with the strides he’s made, he 
still has two hills and a mountain to climb to get to the top of the depth chart. 
The hills are 5-foot-10 Jordan Scarlett and 
5-foot-11 Jordan Cronkrite. Both saw signifi-cant playing time last year and figure promi-nently into Florida's plan for the upcoming season. 
The mountain is top-ranked junior college 
transfer Mark Thompson, who is 6-foot-2 and weighs 242 pounds. 
It’s still to be determined who will see the 
most playing time of the group, but it’s likely 
that Herndon will be relegated to the role of 
spot contributor. 
Regardless, McElwain is enthusiastic 
about his progress and the whole group’s ability to push each other. 
“The competition at running back I think 
has helped,” McElwain said. “Because those guys are busting their tails off.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgUF coach Kevin O’Sullivan will have to 
find a way to slow UK’s offense. 
In O’Sullivan’s nine years at the helm  
of the program, Kentucky is the only SEC East team he doesn’t have a winning re-cord against. 
The coach is 13-13 against the Wild-
cats.
“Obviously we’re gonna have to play 
our best up there if we wanna be success-ful,” he said.
Tonight, Florida’s hitters will face ju-
nior pitcher Zack Brown, who sports a 1-3 record and a 5.14 ERA this season. 
The right-hander shut out Florida 
through seven innings last year as the Wildcats defeated the Gators 3-0.
Although Brown’s numbers don’t show 
it, O’Sullivan said he has top-notch stuff.
“He’s a top couple round pick,” he 
said. 
“He’s 92-96, and he’s got a hammer for 
a breaking ball.”
Florida will counter with Logan Shore. The junior is coming off a start against 
Missouri in which he struck out a career-high 10 batters through 5.1 innings.
Kentucky will start senior Dustin Beggs 
on the hill in Saturday’s contest, which begins at 2 p.m.
His 1.77 ERA currently ranks among 
the top 10 in the SEC.
Beggs tossed 8.1 innings and allowed 
three runs as he earned the win against Florida last year. To make things even tougher for UF, Beggs has won his first five starts this season, which is a program 
record. 
O’Sullivan likened Beggs to Missouri’s 
Reggie McClain, who struck out eight UF 
batters and allowed just three runs in 
nine innings in the Tigers’ 4-3 loss to the 
Gators on Friday.
“Their Saturday guy is just like Mc-
Clain,” he said. 
“He can pitch. He’s an older senior 
who kind of knows what he’s doing.”
Junior left-hander A.J. Puk will start 
Saturday’s matchup for Florida. 
The southpaw is coming off his best 
start of the season against Missouri, in which he struck out 11 through seven scoreless innings.
In Sunday’s game, which will start at 
1 p.m., UF’s Alex Faedo will square off 
against UK’s Kyle Cody. 
All three games can be viewed live on 
SEC Network+.
@Pinakk12 
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13UK righty 
Zack Brown shut out Florida last season
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike White calls out instructions to his team during UF's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center.
NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13RB competition holds no clear front-runner
COLUMN,  from pg 13Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Ahmad Fulwood catches a pass during Florida's Spring practice on March 9 at the 
Sanders Practice Fields.
“(Brown) is a top couple round pick. 
He’s 92-96, and he’s got a hammer for 
a breaking ball.”
Kevin O’Sullivan 
Florida baseball coachFRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2016
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team’s aspirations 
of winning a conference title last season ended 
abruptly in the quarterﬁ  nals of the 2015 South-eastern Conference Tournament, when UF fell to Mississippi State.
After 11 months of waiting, the No. 16 
Gators (9-4, 4-1 SEC) will ﬁ  nally have the op-portunity to avenge that disappointing loss when they take on the No. 24 Bulldogs (12-4, 
4-2 SEC) tonight in Starkville.
“Certainly we’ll remind (our players) that 
they were the team that knocked us out of the 
tournament last year,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “That was a bitter feeling to leave College Station with that loss … so we’ll take every edge we can get to get motivated.”
The Gators enter tonight’s match against 
Mississippi State as one of the hottest teams in the country. 
Since Feb. 27, UF has jumped 25 spots in the 
national rankings and has won ﬁ  ve of its past six matches, outscoring its opponents by a total of 33-9 over that stretch.
In order to continue that strong play when 
they take on the Bulldogs, the Gators have been focusing on decision-making in tight situations to keep players from losing momentum.
“I think you get in trouble a lot of times 
when you don’t have a plan, or you don’t have 
a fallback plan when things start going off,” 
Shelton said. “So we want them to have mul-tiple things that they can go to under pressure.”
The Bulldogs only return two players who 
participated in last year’s SEC quarterﬁ  nals match against UF, sporting one of the youngest teams in the entire SEC. Six of their nine players are freshmen.
However, that lack of experience has not 
slowed them down. Niclas Braun and Nuno Borges have been two of the country’s top freshmen in singles play this spring, boasting 11-1 and 11-2 records, respectively.
Mississippi State also has two players 
ranked in the top 80 in juniors Mate Cutura and Rishab Agarwal, who both played in last year’s SEC quarterﬁ  nals match against the Gators. Agarwal won the deciding point of that match, knocking off Chase Perez-Blanco 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 to send the Bulldogs to the semiﬁ  nals.
Following tonight’s match against MSU, 
Florida will be off to Alabama, where it’ll take on the Crimson Tide on Sunday at 2 p.m. Coach Shelton expects his team to be ready for both of this weekend’s matches, but did acknowledge that anything can happen away from home.“(We’ve got to) go out there and compete 
and play hard on the road,” Shelton said. “Be-cause in the SEC, to win on the road is a dif-ﬁ  cult thing.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
UF looking to continue hot streak against Mississippi State
Chase Perez-Blanco returns 
a ball during Florida’s 6-1 win vs. Troy on Jan. 17.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff