We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 26 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
Del Rio is still Florida’s leader
Plus two more things we learned from the 
Gators loss on Saturday, pg. 13
UF students, businesses pleased with Twitter update
It’s making social media easier for them, pg. 3
New muralist to add to city’s portfolio
It’s part of the 352walls project, pg. 5Meet the Senate candidates
See our interviews with candidates for Beaty T owers, T olbert Area and Rawlings Area, pg. 5
HE SAID SPENDING A 
YEAR IN SPACE WAS THE 
HARDEST THING HE’S 
EVER DONE. 
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
After Captain Scott Kelly took the 
stage at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts on Monday, he kept the audience laughing all night.
“It’s great to be here,” he said. 
“It’s actually great to be anywhere with gravity.” 
Kelly, 52, the ﬁ  rst American as-
tronaut to spend a year in space, spoke to a full crowd about how he began working for NASA and the hardest year he spent in outer space. 
Growing up, Kelly said he wasn’t a good student, and he thinks he 
would be labeled as having atten-
tion deﬁ  cit disorder today. When it came to applying for college, he told the audience he accidentally applied to the University of Maryland, Balti-more County. 
A trip to the bookstore led him to 
ﬁ  nding a book about test pilots who went on to become astronauts, he 
said.
“I decided right then and there I 
would try to be like these guys,” he 
said. “It was the spark that I need-ed.” 
Kelly transferred schools and 
started setting small, achievable goals for himself. He earned his bachelor’s degree from the State Uni-
versity of New York and a master’s 
degree from the University of Ten-nessee. In 1995, his twin brother applied 
to interview to be an astronaut. Kelly didn’t want to apply himself until NASA called him. 
“I didn’t really think I was quali-
ﬁ  ed,” he said. “I really didn’t think I had the academic background.”
But eventually, Kelly learned to 
operate the nearly 2,000 switches and circuit breakers on the space 
shuttle, he said. When he went into 
space for the ﬁ  rst time, he was so focused on operating the shuttle, he forgot to look out the window, he said. 
“‘What the hell is that?’” he re-
members telling his commander when he ﬁ  nally did look out to see the sunrise. It was the brilliant blue 
of the Earth that caught his eye.
“It was the most beautiful thing Astronaut Scott Kelly tells of path to space
HIS LAST DAY WAS SEPT. 15 
AFTER HIS CONTRACT WAS 
NOT RENEWED
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
Lloren Foster was removed as UF’s 
executive director of Multicultural and Di-
versity Affairs earlier this month. As of Sept. 15, Foster’s contract to 
continue as director was not renewed, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. As direc-tor, Foster, who began in August 2015, was paid $80,000.
“Essentially, the university and Dr. 
Foster had different expectations for the position he held,” Sikes said in a phone interview.
As of press time, Foster could not be 
reached for comment. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Dave 
Parrott and Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Mary Kay Carodine will 
select an interim director, Sikes wrote in 
an email. 
“This decision will be made in a time-
ly manner; meanwhile, the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs staff will continue to carry out its mission,” Sikes wrote in an email.
According to Foster’s biography on the 
UF Multicultural and Diversity Affair’s 
website, his past jobs include being an 
assistant professor of African American Studies at Western Kentucky University and an assistant professor of English at 
Hampton University.
Sikes said UF will likely begin search-
ing for a new director in Spring, and  the 
new director will start in Summer. She said Foster is still eligible to work at UF. 
“(Foster) is talented and has many 
skills, and we wish him all the best in his teaching endeavors,” Sikes said.
knewberg@alligator.org 
@k_newberg E xecutive director of Multicultural and Diversity Aﬀ  airs removed
Foster
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Captain Scott Kelly speaks at the Curtis M. Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts on Monday evening as part of an Accent Speakers Bureau event.
SEE SPEAKER,  PAGE 4Alligator Staff Report
As Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton 
went head-to-head in the ﬁ  rst of three presi-
dential debates Monday, hundreds gathered around Gainesville and UF, glued to televi-sion sets as the candidates spoke over each 
other and vied for the nation’s trust.
Lester Holt, a news anchor for “NBC 
Nightly News,” moderated the debate, 
which was hosted at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York. Holt chose three topics, “America’s Direction,” “Achieving Prosperity” and “Securing America,” to dis-cuss.
On campus, about 150 people cheered as 
they watched a livestream of the debate in the Reitz Union Auditorium.
At the watch party, hosted by the UF Col-
lege Democrats and For Our Future, about half of the attendees waved pro-Clinton signs, with some reading, “Love Trumps Hate” and “Stronger Together.”
As Clinton and Trump appeared on 
screen, cheers and boos occurred simulta-neously. Trump’s comments were met with 
swearing; Clinton’s replies were met with 
claps.
Anastasia Regnier, 18, who attended 
the watch party, said one of her favorite moments was watching Clinton mock Trump’s economic plan, which she called a faulty version of Reagan’s trickle-down GNV, UF students watch for 
ﬁ  rst Clinton, Trump debate
Reitz, Hippodrome host watch parties
SEE DEBATE,  PAGE 8
 Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Paul Silva, right, a 19-year-old political science freshman, holds up a sign to show his 
support for Hillary Clinton during the ﬁ  rst presidential debate watch party held in the Reitz Union Auditorium on Monday evening. Over 150 students attended the free event, which included voter pledges, pizza and an opportunity to register for the election. Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets today at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s 
Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkingga-
tors.toastmastersclubs.org or the 
Talking Gators Facebook page. 
“The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience in 
which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and per-sonal growth.”
A Discussion on tenants' rights 
Gainesville is a community where close to half of all resi-dents are renters. If someone you know got wrongly evicted or if their deposit was unjustly taken, would you know what to do or who to call? What were their rights? LaKesha Thomas, of Three Rivers Legal Services, specializes in tenants’ rights and wants to educate you on your rights. Join the discussion, pre-sented by the Alachua County Labor Coalition, today at 6 p.m. The meeting will be held at the Emmanuel Mennonite Church, located at 1236 NW 18th Ave. Pizza and drinks will be pro-vided. Join the Alachua County Labor Coalition Facebook group for updates on upcoming events.
'The Structural Pathologies of the 
American Electoral System' In a lecture held today at 3 p.m. in the Music Building, Room 101, Daniel Smith, a UF profes-sor of political science, will dis-cuss how political institutions af-fect political behavior across the American states. The upcoming election in November will be considered during this session. The lecture will be followed by a meet-and-greet and refresh-ments. It is sponsored by the UF International Center and the UF Fulbright Lecture Committee.
Faculty Fellowship Program 
for International Research: Accepting applications for 2016-2017The Global Fellows Program assists faculty in developing or advancing an international research agenda. The Global Fellows Program will provide support for faculty with one-on-one consultations with the Office for Global Research Engagement (OGRE) staff for support with international proposal develop-
ment, seed funding up to $4,000 
to cover expenses for an interna-
tional trip, honoraria of $1,000 
for a Faculty Mentor within the same field of study, access to 
a workshop series hosted by 
OGRE on proposal preparation 
and opportunities for network-
ing and building partnerships. Two information sessions will 
be held at the International 
Center (Large Conference Room) 
on Wednesday at 4 p.m. and Thursday at 10 a.m.
'Thank You for Playing'
A film screening of “Thank You for Playing” will take place Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in the REVE Polymodal Immersive 
Theater in the Digital Worlds 
Institute, located in the Norman 
Gym at the southwest corner of Norman Hall. The screening will be followed by a discussion with the filmmakers via Skype. “Thank You for Playing” is a film that chronicles the day-to-day challenges of Ryan and Amy Green as they grapple with the illness of their son Joel, who has suffered from cancer since the age of one. With the challenge of creating some normalcy for their family of five, they find some solace in creating a tribute to him, a haunting video game titled “That Dragon, Cancer.” This event is part of a series called Death: Confronting the Great Divide. For more informa-tion, visit humanities.ufl.edu.
Art Walk: Dream a Little Dream
Join the Hippodrome State Theatre on Friday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. for Art Walk and relive ageless romance in "Dream a Little Dream." Snacks and bev-erages will be provided. This September, the Hippodrome of-fers a wide variety of visual art by artist members of the Gainesville Fine Arts Association. Love and romance cater to the central themes of the Dream a Little Dream exhibit. Showcasing the talents of Oak Hammock mem-bers Michael Levy and Jane Polkowski, as well as local art-ists Jay Winter Collins and Colleen Rand, the Hippodrome gallery features exquisite work ranging from photography, oils and acrylics.
GatorWell Health Promotion Services: Yes Means YesYes Means Yes is a five-week student-run positive sexual-
ity seminar that is running 
in partnership with Sexual 
Trauma Interpersonal Violence 
Education (STRIVE) and GatorWell. The objective is to 
create a space for UF students 
to define consent, sexual assault 
and rape while also learning to 
think about and verbalize what a positive sexual experience 
means for them. Yes Means Yes 
will run every Monday from Oct. 
10 to Nov. 7, have guest facilita-tors each week and provide free food. Applications are due Oct. 
3. Apply now at gatorwell.wu-
foo.com/forms/qybh6y60pd-
kago.
Research Abroad for Graduate 
Students — call for applica-
tions
UF’s International Center, the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School and the Office of the Provost are pleased to announce that the 2016-2017 Research Abroad for Graduate Students funding opportunity is open to doctoral students to conduct an extended period of research at a foreign laboratory or field-site during the Spring or Summer of 2017. Applicants should submit all ma-terials electronically to the Office for Global Research Engagement no later than 3 p.m. on Oct. 6. Please direct any questions to Sandra Russo at srusso@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  89° LOW  70°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 26
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Grace King / Alligator Staff
A SHOWCASE DRILL
From left: Jessica Hornyak, 18, a UF biomedical engineering freshman, listens to  18-year-old biomedical 
engineering freshman Deepti Singam. The Career Resource Center hosted a Diversity Meet Up: Pre-Showcase Connections event to help prepare underrepresented and diverse populations for this week’s Career Showcase.
By Haley Clement
Alligator Contributing Writer
By October, a new artist will add 
to Gainesville’s growing collection of colorful street art. 
352walls announced Friday that 
Puerto Rican artist David Zayas would be contracted to paint a mu-ral near Leonardo’s 706 at the end of October.
The artist will paint the 24th mu-
ral for 352walls, a 10-year program that began last year as a way to beautify the city. Zayas was spon-sored and will be paid by local busi-ness owner Hector Puig, who owns Hector Framing and Gallery at the 706 W. University Ave. plaza. After meeting Zayas at the artist’s studio during a trip to Puerto Rico, Puig, who declined to say how much is paying Zayas, recommended Zayas to 352walls.
“[I] thought he’d be a great artist 
to highlight here in the 706 plaza,” Puig said. “He’ll be doing some-
thing...pretty cool.” 
A ﬁ  ve-member curatorial board 
reviewed Zayas’ portfolio and decid-
ed he would be a welcome addition, said Raquel Vallejo, a coordinator for 352walls.
Vallejo said the arts program saw Zayas, who is also a University of Puerto Rico arts professor, as more than qualiﬁ  ed to add to Gainesville’s street art landscape just in time for the 35th Annual Downtown Festival & Art Show, which will be held Nov. 5 and 6.
“We are lucky to have him,” she 
said.
Kiana Cleveland, a UF business 
administration freshman who works downtown, said the addition of Za-yas’ mural will only add to the art she admires on her walk from work. 
“They are so deep,” she said. 
“I appreciate the artistic value and creativity in them.” 
 New muralist to add to city’s portfolioBy Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
With Twitter’s latest update, 
Natasha Jewett’s job became a 
lot easier.
The UF ﬁ  nance sophomore 
manages the social media for a Miami children’s boutique, 
and she often posts photos of 
clothing the store sells.
But before the social media 
platform Twitter updated its 
140-character limit to no longer 
count media such as photos, videos and GIFs as characters, 
the 19-year-old said it was 
difﬁ  cult to effectively promote 
clothing to customers.
“Sometimes it would take me 
15 minutes to craft a tweet,” she 
said. “I would need to delete 
an entire picture to accurately describe the photo, but then the 
clothing item wasn’t represented well enough visually.”
Twitter, which made the 
change Sept. 19, will no longer count polls, quoted tweets, photos, videos and GIFs against 
a user’s character count. It also 
added the option of posting 
virtual stickers on photos.
Amanda Bello, a UF English 
junior, says she posts tweets about 15 times a day. She said 
Twitter provides her a platform 
to express opinions and random 
thoughts.
With the update, the 19-year-
old said she has more room to work with when crafting tweets.
“Sometimes, a good picture 
can add to the overall point of a 
tweet,” Bello said. “It’s amazing 
that now pictures won’t restrict our ability to get our full point across.”
Bello said the success of 
a social network is largely dependent on its ability to adapt to the needs of the consumer.
“Twitter clearly saw a need 
for a change and they made it 
happen,” Bello said. “Now the 
app is better because of it.”  UF students, 
businesses pleased with Twitter update
On Sept. 22,  @SoProEsther tweeted : “FINALLY!!!!!!!! We’ve 
been waiting so long for this update!!!”
On Sept. 26,  @Sky2764 tweeted : “PICTURES NO LONGER 
COUNT TOWARDS THE CHARACTER LIMIT! THE CHARACTER 
LIMIT! F--- YES!”
On Sept. 20,  @theladykatie tweeted : “I can’t wait to use even 
better arguments in future Twitter debates now that the 140 character limit is relaxed.”
On Sept. 21,  @JeriMahon tweeted : “Testing the new 
#TwitterUpdate. Great to have the full 140 character count. Bad that I’ve got nothing to say. Guess I’ll retweet myself now!”Tweeting about Twitter
Reactions from across the Internet4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Career Showcase is getting a new home.
The event, which starts today and continues 
Wednesday, will be held at Southwest Recreation 
Center from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. due to the renova-
tions of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center, said Heather White, the director of the Career Resource 
Center. The move was planned for years, but the gym will stay open for regular operations.  
The showcase, which is held every Fall and 
Spring, invites students and alumni to interview with companies for jobs and internships. The two days are broken up with one being nontechnical 
and one technical. She said between 6,500 and 
8,500 students come each semester.
Students can take the bus or park in the Bled-
soe lot across from Southwest Rec for two hours using the PassportParking app.
“Space is always the key factor for us, and then 
proximity for students to get to the event,” White 
said.
This year, 375 employers have registered to 
attend the event between both days, wrote Dana McPherson, the assistant director for marketing and communications for the CRC, in an email. During the first day, representatives from Ama-zon.com Inc. and Apple Inc. will attend, among 
others. 
Ja’Net Glover, the senior associate director for 
career services at the CRC, said the center has 
been doing research since 2014 to find out where the showcase could be held during the O’Connell 
Center renovations.
She said the event will take up six basketball 
courts, racquetball courts and an activity room.
“We’re just excited about it,” she said. “The lo-
cation’s gonna be different, but we’re very thank-ful for Southwest Rec for their hospitality.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org Career Showcase to be held in Southwest Rec for the first time
THE NEW CENTER WILL HELP ALLEVI -
ATE PATIENT INTAKE OF THE SPRING -
HILL LOCATION.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Health Shands Hospital opened an additional 
health emergency center in southwest Gainesville on 
Monday.
The new UF Health Emergency Center — Kanap-
aha, located at 7405 SW Archer Road, is expected to officially open within the next 10 days upon final state approval. If approved, the $10 million facility will be open 24/7 every day of the year. 
The Kanapaha location is the fourth Shands emer-
gency center, said Dr. Adrian Tyndall, the chairman of the UF department of emergency medicine. 
“We strategically located the centers in places where 
we feel we will be able to meet the demand for care across the community, and that’s our pledge,” he said. 
Kanapaha will have 13 beds, but with rapid turn-
over, Tyndall said the center will be able to see more than 100 patients a day. It will operate like other emer-gency rooms by providing services to anyone with an urgent need. However, the center is not equipped for trauma patients.
The new center is larger than the Springhill Health 
Center, which received over 35,000 patients, twice as many as originally predicted for the year. The new loca-tion will help alleviate the demand from the Springhill location, Tyndall said.
Shands CEO Ed Jimenez said the new center should 
be able to provide the same level of care to other parts of Gainesville with about 100 employees working at the center.
“I think it’s part of the idea that we need to bring 
care closer to the community,” he said. 
Jimenez said he expects between 15,000 and 18,000 
patients at the new location within the first year.
Tyndall, who directs all four emergency centers, 
said adding the Kanapaha location will help Shands meet a rising demand for medical care in Gainesville.  
“I’m focused on making sure that we can provide 
the best and most efficient care that we possibly can,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF Health opens emergency 
center in southwest Gainesville  By Morgan Ryner
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lexi Rodriguez was 17 when she 
signed the lease to her first apart-
ment in Gainesville.
Three years later, Rodriguez, 
now a UF marketing senior, is in the 
midst of a court battle with Union 
Properties of Gainesville over what she calls unfair charges.
With the case dragging on for the 
past two years, Rodriguez said she has spent more than $2,000 in legal 
fees.
“I wish I could have done more to 
defend myself,” she said.
In Gainesville, where a large 
chunk of residents rent, Rodriguez is 
not alone.
Landlords sometimes take ad-
vantage of students’ lack of knowl-edge about their rights as renters, 
said Miguel Valdez, the coordinator 
of the Alachua County Labor Coali-tion, who will host a seminar tonight about renters’ rights.
“If we can go and provide a lot 
of information that gives people the ability to fight back against a bad landlord, then I think we have done a good service for the community,” 
Valdez said.
The 6:30 p.m. meeting will 
be held at Emmanuel Mennonite 
Church, located 1236 NW 18th Ave. A lawyer at Three Rivers Legal Ser-vices will speak at the meeting.
A major topic of discussion will 
be about how landlords often take big chunks of the tenants’ security deposits for minor infractions, he said.
This, Rodriguez said, is the situ-
ation in which she currently finds herself. For two years at her apart-ment, which she would not name, Rodriguez’s landlord was charging 
her and her roommate undeserved 
monthly fees, she said.
“I realized they were charging me 
$40 to $50 extra a month for rent for two years, which obviously incurred to an amount to which they had the advantage to say the payments wasn’t received in full,” Rodriguez said.
She and her roommate were 
eventually evicted. But when they left, the landlord kept $660 of their $700 security deposit even though the unit was not damaged, Rodri-guez said.
Rodriguez said other students 
could learn from tonight’s meeting. If she could, she would have sought 
out similar help prior to signing her 
lease and spending thousands of dol-lars in legal fees.
“I just wish I knew what my 
rights were as a tenant, because I felt completely manipulated,” she said.Local organization to hold 
renters’ rights seminar  
Courtesy to the Alligator
The new UF Health Emergency Center — Kanapaha, located at 7405 SW Archer Road, is expected 
to officially open within the next 10 days upon final state approval. If approved, the $10 million facil-ity will be open 24/7 every day of the year.
I’ve seen in my life, and I knew I 
would never see anything that beau-tiful again,” he said.  
But starting in March 2015, he 
spent the hardest year of his life in space. 
“When you wake up you’re at 
work, when you go to sleep, you’re at work,” said Kelly, adding that spending a year without gravity has significant negative effects on the body. 
Kelly has spent over 520 days in 
space. Over that time, he’s learned to appreciate Earth’s atmosphere and environment. 
“I learned to be more sympathetic 
about what goes on planet Earth and how we treat one another,” he said.
Dylan Blecher, 18, said it was a 
huge honor to listen to Kelly speak. Learning how the retired astronaut got his start, despite his struggle as 
a student, was the UF exploratory 
freshman’s favorite part. 
“It’s never too late,” he said. 
“This is like a perfect example of that.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgSPEAKER,  from pg 1He spoke about being a studentCAREER DAY
TO-DO LIST
• Bring your resume 
• Dress professionally
• Practice your elevator 
pitch
• Give yourself extra time to get to Southwest Rec
• Know which companies you want to talk toThe facility will remain open
LOCALWhen Anthony 
Zona arrived at UF 
this semester, he 
knew he wanted to be in Student Sen-
ate. 
But when Zona, 
a UF telecommu-
nication freshman, went to qualify as a candidate, he was surprised only one 
party was inter-viewing students, 
he said.  
“I think it’s kind of ridiculous the lack of 
competition there is within the Student Gov-ernment,” the 18-year-old said. “I was just kind of shocked that a university of this mag-nitude, there was such little choice.” 
So, he decided to run as an independent 
candidate for Tolbert Area. If elected, he said he plans to increase community events for the 
five residence halls he would represent. He also plans to expand food service hours for 
dining on campus, like the restaurants in the Reitz Union. 
“Just improve overall life within the Tol-
bert Area,” he said. 
If elected to Senate, Zona said he would 
work to keep a balanced SG budget. He looks forward to potentially working with Impact senators, he said. 
“I have no problem with it, but I’m going 
to stand up for what I believe in,” he said. “At the end of the day, it is about the Tolbert Area.”By running 
with Impact Party, 
Amanda Hollo-
way is following in her brother’s footsteps. 
“My whole 
family has just 
gone through UF,” the UF telecommu-nication freshman 
said. “I wanted to 
hop right into it.” 
Holloway, 19, 
said she wants to increase recycling in the Tolbert area and create a community bulletin board to notify residents of events and useful information. With Impact’s platform, Hollo-way said she is excited about the longboard lockers and the Gator 1 app. 
Her brother, Jacob Holloway (Impact, Dis-
trict B), who is not running for re-election in Student Senate, told her what UF’s Student Government does on campus, she said. “That was just the way I heard about how 
awesome SG was,” she said. “I live around 
Gainesville, and so I saw how much of an 
impact that (Impact) made in such a short time.” 
At Belleview High School in Ocala, Hollo-
way was class president. She was in charge of organizing events and philanthropy projects. She also helped organize Dance Marathon at her high school in collaboration with UF. 
She said she wants to continue bringing 
events to her fellow residents in Tolbert Area. 
“I think what SG is all about is helping the 
students,” she said. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Corben Cham-
poux said she wants to make a tangible change on 
campus. 
Champoux said 
she heard about UF Student Gov-ernment from her brother, Austin 
Champoux (Im-
pact, District A). The 18-year-old public relations 
freshman has always wanted to run with Im-pact, she said, and is running with Impact for Rawlings Area.  
“I was able to see all the change they were 
implementing on campus,” she said. “I really 
just want to incorporate everyone’s ideas and make them feel comfortable.” 
If elected, Champoux wants to work on 
creating an app to notify Rawlings Area stu-
dents when their laundry is done and which machines are in use, she said. She also wants to plan more social events for her area. 
“I really want students to have a great col-
lege experience and to be able to feel comfort-
able and have support,” she said. When Casey 
Witte inter-
viewed with the only party run-ning in the Fall elections, he 
wasn’t chosen. 
But the UF fi-
nance freshman knew he still wanted to run for Student Senate. 
“I wanted to 
run for Rawlings 
and make it a better dorm, and I didn’t 
care who I was able to do that with,” said 
the 18-year-old, who is running to rep-resent Rawlings Area as an independent candidate. 
He said he wants to get new recreation-al equipment for the area and improve the 
cleanliness of Rawlings Hall’s bathrooms 
on the weekends. He said he also wants to expand funding for the Gator Career Clos-et and work on campaign finance reform so SG is more accessible to all students. 
“I don’t care if I win or lose — just a 
better University of Florida, a better Raw-lings Hall, is what I’m looking for,” he said. 
Senate Race 2016
Emily Dunson 
said she has come to view Student Government as an outlet for serving 
others. 
Dunson, 18, is 
running to repre-
sent Beaty Tow-ers with Impact Party. She wants to expand scooter parking around 
Beaty Towers and work to create a pedes-
trian timer for the crosswalk in front of 
the buildings, she said. She also wants to better advertise events happening in Beaty Towers. 
“I was here this summer and I saw the 
impact Student Government had on stu-dents,” the UF business administration freshman said. “The people I’ve met in Im-pact had similar interests to myself. That’s 
something I wanted to align myself with.” 
If elected, she said she wants to help 
Impact develop a Gator 1 app, which would serve as a form of digital identifica-
tion. 
Dunson said she has experience work-
ing in student government through her roles at the Lois Cowles Harrison Cen-
ter for the Visual and Performing Arts in 
Lakeland, Florida. There, she served as the president of her school’s student govern-ment and helped to bring Dance Marathon to her school. 
She said she is excited for Impact’s plan 
to display more student artwork. 
“Going to an arts high school, that’s 
something I’m really passionate about,” 
she said. Rawlings Area
Beaty TowersBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
Jeremy
O’Brien Murillo  
said he wants to 
be an independent voice against the majority in Student 
Senate. 
O’Brien Murillo, 
19, wants to im-
prove lighting in front of Beaty Tow-ers and address the frequent flooding that happens on the 
13th floor, he said. Most students have told 
him about maintenance problems in the tow-
ers that they would like addressed. 
“I’m still talking to a lot of students,” the 
UF political science freshman said. “Obvi-ously I will be representing my constituents in Beaty for whatever they need.” 
O’Brien Murillo, who worked on local 
elections in his hometown of Spring Hill, Flor-ida, wants to carry his passion for politics into 
UF’s Student Government, he said. 
“I’m just ready for genuine, real connec-tions,” he said,  “and even though I’m only 
among the maximum of four others, we are going to be those voices who are essentially a check and balance.” 
O’Brien Murillo said he initially inter-
viewed with Impact Party, but he withdrew 
his application with them in order to run as 
independent. 
“I felt like I wasn’t true to myself, and it 
wouldn’t be true to the students if I slated with them,” he said. “It just didn’t feel right to me.” 
O’Brien Murillo said he wants to extend his 
passion for politics to the Senate floor. 
“I want to do what I can to contribute to 
the betterment of the Student Body,”  he said.
O’Brien
Champoux
 Witte
Dunson
Q&A  
What are your hobbies?
“I used to garden pretty much everything. ” What are some interesting facts about your-self?“I’m legally blind and I’m a black belt in T ae-kwondo. ”Q&A 
What is your favorite animal?“Horses. I grew up in Deland, Florida. We had a lot of horses growing up, and I had a pet horse. ” What is your favorite song? “‘Our Song’ by T aylor Swift. It was the first song I learned on guitar. ” 
Q&A 
What is your favorite animal?“My favorite animal is a chinchilla. They’re just like fun, really cuddly beings. ”What is an interesting fact about yourself? “I’m Irish, and I’m also Costa Rican. I’m em-bracing both last names. ” Q&A 
What is your spirit animal? “A golden retriever. They’re always very happy and very upbeat, and they love peo-ple, and that’s something I can relate to. ” Do you have any hobbies? “Scuba diving. I’ve dove a shipwreck and 
some reefs. ”  IMPACT INDEPENDENT
Tolbert Area
Zona
 Holloway
Q&A 
What is your favorite animal? 
“A sloth. I think they have the right idea about life. ” What is your dream job? “T o anchor ‘Meet the Press’ or ‘NBC Nightly News. ’” Q&A 
What is your spirit animal?“I really like a lion; I think we have very simi-lar hair. But it’s also a courageous animal. ” What is your favorite food? “I’m a big potato fan. Like all the different foods you create from potatoes; the list goes on and on. ”Note: Student Government Fall elections begin today at 
the following locations from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. • Broward Hall — First Floor Library
• Health Science Center — C2-041C
• Jennings Hall — First Floor Library
• Law School (Bruton-Geer Hall) — side hallways by  the cafeteria
• Marston Science Library — Main Room
• Murphree Area Commons — Conference Area Room 106
• Norman Hall — Education Library
• Reitz Union — Computer Lab on the lower level• Southwest Recreation Center — Cafe near entrance on left side*
• Springs Area Office — Room C202
• Stuzin Hall — Conference Room 200
* The polling station at Southwest Rec Center will not be open until 9:30 a.m. due to the Career ShowcaseThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORAnother 
semester, another 
endorsement
It’s that time of year again — Student Government elec-
tions. The last few years, dear reader, have been as tu-multuous as ever. The drama surrounding various party name changes, accusations of nepotism, mudslinging and the seemingly valid conspiracy theories seems to never 
end, and even as we put the ﬁ  nishing touches on this en-dorsement editorial, the Not My System movement is prepar-ing a livestream for a Q&A.
Before we go any further with an endorsement, we would 
like to address the Not My System movement. While the dots seem to connect, the lack of tangible evidence does not gain this theory any momentum, and we look forward to see-ing any physical evidence they can provide to back up their claims.
But back to the election.For many of you, this will be the ﬁ  rst SG election where 
only one party is in the running. Five independent candidates are running as well, who lack any and all party afﬁ  liation, including among themselves. These independent candidates are running against the, for better or worse, extremely-well-greased machine that is Impact Party. For us upperclassmen, the memories of Access Party, and its arm wrestling with Im-pact, have long ﬁ  zzled away.
The platforms provided by both Impact and the indepen-
dent candidates individually are relatively synonymous and cover a variety of issues the broad UF Student Body faces. We here at the Alligator recognize Impact’s dedication to the Stu-dent Senate and its assertion to follow through with their pro-posed platform and the always controversial, yet alarmingly elusive, online voting initiative. We hope, regardless of how many seats they win, that they follow through with every one of the above mentioned initiatives. However, we here at the 
Alligator cannot in good conscience endorse a single party 
and perpetuate a one-party system. Accusations of nepotism, corruption and lack of transparency aside, we cannot endorse the continued monarchy that has become our SG.
There are ﬁ  ve candidates on the ballot this year listed as 
independent. We here at the Alligator fully support Anthony Zona and Jeremy O’Brien Murillo in their campaigns over Tolbert Area and Beaty Towers, respectively. They have both reached out to their respective constituencies, listened to 
their concerns and are going into their races truly represent-
ing their areas, with area speciﬁ  c policies they want to see enacted. They have also expressed malleability and openness in considering policy that affects every Gator, not just those in Tolbert Area or Beaty Towers. We will not recommend any other candidate, Impact or independent, for any other race, but instead give our support to the platforms and initiatives supported and voiced by both sides of the contested and un-contested elections.
With all of this in mind, fellow students, we need you to 
go out and vote. The more of you that go to the polls today and Wednesday, the more conﬁ  dent we can be in saying that our elected student ofﬁ  cials truly represent The Gator Nation. Small voter turnout increasingly invalidates the conﬁ  dence we have that those in SG truly stand on behalf of the 53,000 students at UF. Democracy works best when everybody con-tributes, and the best way to “stick it” to those you oppose is to stand and vote for those you support.Comedy and world-building: ‘Homestar Runner’
The internet has done weird things for comedy. Good things, but certainly weird things. Video-sharing websites like YouTube, Newgrounds and Vine have paved the way for all sorts of art: 
mediums like sketches, animations and music. The internet digitized the formerly newspaper-dominated comic strip with works like “Penny Arcade” and “xkcd.” And beyond this, the el-dritch phenomenon that is memes has intro-duced audiences to meta-humor and explored the darker side of the human psyche. Memes are spooky stuff.
But perhaps the greatest work of art to bless the in-
ternet was/is the web cartoon “Homestar Runner,” which saw its prime from about 2003 to 2008. The series is a col-lection of more than 350 cartoons featuring a main cast of 12 characters in the ﬁ  ctional town of Free Country, USA. Every cartoon, to an extent, plays out in the same universe and canon, and this is how homestarrunner.com proves to be, perhaps, the funniest entity on the internet.
The website started gaining traction in 2000, but it didn’t 
explode in popularity until the introduction of “Strong Bad 
Email” in August 2001, in which the character Strong Bad 
answers real emails from real fans of the website. Not only were the cartoons themselves well-written and full of quips, but nearly every “Strong Bad Email” builds on the “Homestar Runner” universe by introducing a new char-acter, location, entity or aspect of a pre-existing character. After 206 emails to “Strong Bad Email,” the universe is jam-packed with characters. If you were to watch a more recent cartoon from 2014, you’d certainly laugh at the 
main cast, but perhaps you wouldn’t catch the reference 
to the character Onion Bubs (introduced in 2007) or the in-universe TV cartoon “Sweet Cuppin’ Cakes” (introduced in 2003). The deeper you dive into the website’s content, the more you’re rewarded with inside jokes and callbacks. However, the website does not have the “it-takes-a-few-episodes-to-get-into” syndrome because of how well it juggles this world-building with engaging characters.Let me get a bit deeper into how the world-
building is so masterful.
It’s a three-step process through which the 
show delivers a joke. First, a character like Strong Bad introduces an entity into the universe, like 
the band Limozeen. The name Limozeen comes 
from a list of hypothetical band names Strong Bad proposes. However, in step two, the entity is implemented into the universe, usually with-out question. A few cartoons later, Strong Bad is excited for a Limozeen concert he’s going to see that evening. That moment is the audience’s 
ﬁ  rst subversion of expectation: An entity that clearly did not exist now exists and lives alongside these characters. 
In step three, the entity itself either co-mingles with other 
entities in the universe or sprouts new entities. Another batch of cartoons later, the band Limozeen gets its own television cartoon “Limozeen: ‘But they’re in space!’” A few cartoons later, Strong Bad introduces Limozeen’s foil, Sloshy, an indie band. By cartoon No. 350, you have po-tentially hundreds of entities playing together in any given 5-minute cartoon, and it’s an absolute joy to be a part of.
If you look at the main cast of characters, they’re very 
abstract; they have human qualities, but you couldn’t call them human, per se. The titular character, Homestar Run-ner, lacks arms but has the capacity to lift objects. The Cheat is a small creature who acts as both Strong Bad’s close friend and pet. Strong Bad has elephant feet. The important thing, however, is that in the earlier cartoons, these odd characteristics are not meant to be inherently funny. They’re not meant to be laughed at. All of the com-edy from the earlier cartoons come from their personalities 
because their appearances have to be nailed into the status 
quo. Despite its hundreds of alterations to the universe, the main cast represents a total control of and respect for the universe by its artists, brothers Matt and Mike Chap-man.
“Homestar Runner” is a cool work of art. Give it a look.Michael Smith is a UF mechanical engineering junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Whether it was due to a class dis-
cussion on the “student as cus-tomer” debate or a fellow col-umnist’s musings on Rate My 
Professors or simply my own pre-
occupation with funding graduate school, 
my mind keeps coming back to the ways in which higher education and the market economy intersect. Over the past few years, 
higher education has been increasingly char-
acterized as a business transaction in which 
the student is the customer “purchasing” a degree and entrance into the job market. It seems innocuous enough, treating college students as valued customers, but despite the increased bargaining power this concep-tual shift gives us, it undeniably warps the way we approach our education.
One need not look far to see how this 
transactional view manifests itself in our dai-ly experiences. As mentioned in last week’s column on Rate My Professors, academic faculty are rated in an unsettlingly stream-lined fashion as they are reduced down to three discrete categories: level of difﬁ  culty, overall quality and — for some incomprehensible reason — hotness. A professor of mine re-
cently pointed out the undeniable 
similarities between the website’s 
ratings for professors and those for a washing machine, toaster or laptop in “Consumer Reports.”
Yet while there’s no doubt that 
the transactional approach to edu-cation has directly resulted in the commodi-ﬁ  cation of professors, it has also encouraged them to become more approachable and ac-countable. While it’s difﬁ  cult for me to imag-ine, countless adults in my life have assured me that dropping by a professor’s ofﬁ  ce to chat them up or ask a quick question was utterly unthinkable a few decades ago. Ad-ditionally novel to them is the concept of faculty evaluations, which have seemed like an indispensible necessity to me in the past three years. Both of these educational fea-tures have become more prevalent as edu-cational institutions are held in-creasingly accountable by paying “customers,” but this bargaining power also impacts how students 
perceive themselves and their role 
in the transaction. 
I’m extremely hesitant to use 
the word “entitled” as I feel it’s an 
overused crutch, constantly used 
to shame millennials, but I can’t 
deny that approaching education 
as a business transaction is guaranteed to 
result in some students feeling as though they’re owed a degree. It’s an inevitable ef-fect of that corporate mantra “the customer is always right” being haphazardly applied to higher education. The fact of the matter is the student is not always right, and — while paying thousands of dollars for a de-gree does mean we deserve engaged faculty, fair grading and some degree of empathy — we can’t expect to be waited on hand and foot. Personal growth doesn’t happen when you’re “always right.” However, I’ve encountered very few 
people who feel as though they’re owed a degree at this school. That’s what I love so much about UF: I’m constantly surround-
ed by passionate students who step out-
side their comfort zones, work tirelessly to 
achieve their goals and know when to admit they’re wrong. 
Even with this in mind, it’s an unavoid-
able truth that treating students like custom-
ers lends itself to a shift in focus away from 
the true nature of education. Enticing ame-nities are used to attract lucrative custom-ers, like Boston University’s luxury “condo” dorms and the University of Missouri’s lazy river. Students begin to perceive themselves as passive receivers of their education. This transactional metaphor has a lot of problem-atic implications for students and education-al institutions alike, so it may be time for us to reconceptualize their nuanced relation-ship.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.
Last week, in the middle of my creative writing class, my teacher stepped out to use the bathroom during our 10-min-ute break. /T_h  is is usually a good time to 
crack light jokes with your neighbor or try 
and make small talk. Instead, every person except 
me and another guy was on his or her phone. /T_h  e only reason I wasn’t looking down at mine was because it was plugged into the wall, charging. /T_h  ere was total silence in the room; nobody even glanced up or attempted to connect with anoth-er human being. And then our teacher walked back in and we resumed class. Is this just a min-ute instance of a current phenomenon I plan on stretching out of proportion? Possibly. 
/T_h  e more I scan the scene around me, though, 
the deeper my conviction sinks that this cur-rent technology, in giving us a limitless space in the virtual world, is eroding human connec-tions, relationships and communities in the real world. /T_h  is has been said before, and it will be said again, but that does not mean it is not worth repeating. We must tread lightly when deal-ing with technology. The current tendency of people my age is to equate virtual human contact — texting, snapchatting, messaging 
— with actual human contact. 
My dad always catches me on this 
when he asks me if I have talked to my brother recently. By talk, he means what he says: Have you used your voice in communicating with him? The real answer is no, but since I associate talking with texting, I always an-swer yes. I am certain a vast majority of mil-lennials would, when asked the same ques-tion, answer in the afﬁ  rmative.
 But my dad has a point — why do we, 
when communicating with a fellow human being, choose to interact through a medium that kills all possibility of an actual human experience? In other words, I wonder why we often choose to argue, break up with our girlfriends or boyfriends, say "I love you" or send compliments through texting, when do-ing so automatically ﬁ  lters out the warmth or force of the statement being sent. Why don’t we save those things for when we actu-
ally see the person, when we can 
experience the true joy or the true 
pain of seeing the impact of our words on others? The irony is that our age, in being the most con-nected in history, is the most dis-
connected age in history. We hover over our phones or computers for hours on end, lost in a ﬂ  urry of technological possibilities. I can text this person, read this article, watch this video — but in chaining myself to my device, I am consequently neglecting to live. In los-ing myself in my device, I isolate myself from my friends, my surrounding community and from myself. 
I am so absorbed in my screen that I of-
ten forget there are other people sitting right next to me. A gulf has formed between me and you, a gulf as big as the phone in my hand. Through that device, I can friend you, Snapchat you, text you, FaceTime you, Face-book message you, email you or maybe even call you if I am feeling conﬁ  dent. It offers me 
hardly any limits as to how I can communi-
cate with you. 
But in doing so, in keeping my attention 
ﬁ  xed on the multifarious nature of virtual 
communication, it blocks me from looking you in the face. It keeps me from sharing a conversation with you or even saying hello. I consider our age to be a lonely one, full of constant motion, sound and distraction. I hardly see strangers willingly share a conver-sation together; I hardly talk to those I don’t know. Instead, like in my creative writing class, we put in our headphones, angle our necks downward and lose ourselves in our own private worlds. To us, sadly, that is the only world that exists.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and phi-
losophy sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Student, sometimes customer: When is education a business transaction?
The only world that exists: Some thoughts on technology, the need to unplug Column
Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
economics.
“Trumped up, trickle down economics 
is beautiful,” the UF international relations 
freshman said.  “It’s a good way of showing 
that it really doesn’t work, and it’s making 
fun of it, too,” she said.
Downtown, at a watch party held at the 
Hippodrome State Theatre, John Malan-
chuk sipped red wine and clapped when Clinton mentioned her environmental poli-
cies.
He said he tuned in at the Hippodrome 
because he doesn’t have cable at home.
“This debate is can’t-miss,” Malanchuk 
said. “I’m just gonna try to keep my mouth shut and not get too emotional.”He was one of about 100 people gath-
ered under red-and-blue lights in the base-
ment of the Hippodrome to watch the de-bate and sip red-, white- and blue-colored vodka drinks from the bar.
During the debate, the crowded room 
was almost silent, and some sat cross-legged on the ﬂ  oor.
Stacie Danahy, the director of public 
programs at the Hippodrome, said she was excited by the turnout. She made two trips to the storage closet to get extra chairs.
“People seem so focused,” she said. “We 
want people to talk, to engage with each 
other and exchange ideas. Maybe after they 
get a few of our specialty drinks in them.”
As David Hogan and Cassie Lyle, 23, sat 
quietly at a table in the back of the room, 
Hogan said he was enjoying the political atmosphere.
“I’ve never watched a debate with an au-
dience like this, but I think politics are very 
personal,” the 29-year-old said. “As long as people keep their mouths shut about their opinions, I’ll be OK.”
In the thick of the debate, a group of 
more than 50 people at Gainesville House of Beer drank every time Clinton feigned a smile and when Trump said just about any-thing. When Clinton accused Trump of not paying federal taxes, he said it made him smart, and the room erupted in bellowing 
laughter.
The downtown bar has made hosting 
debate watch party drinking games a tradi-
tion since 2008, said general manager Alex Whelpton. This year, the rules of the game 
— created by radio host Mark Kaye — in-cluded drinking at every mention of “The 
Wall” or “China”  from Trump and at every Clinton cough or mention of her daughter Chelsea.
For Jake Crowns, a 37-year-old 
Gainesville resident, the debate was purely entertainment. 
He said this year’s election is like an epi-
sode of the sitcom “Seinfeld.” He said he would rather watch the debates live with a drink than through social media and news clips, which would be too overwhelming.
“This election is like an embarrassing 
uncle who brings his stripper girlfriend to 
dinner,” Crowns said. “I want to hear what 
they have to say, have a drink and laugh at the people who are going to run the coun-try.”8   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
Clinton: “I have a feeling that by the end of this evening I’m going to be blamed for everything that ever happened. ” Trump interjecting:  “Why not?”
Trump on the DNC hacking: “It could have been Russia. It could be China. It could be someone sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds. ”
Clinton about Trump and stamina:  “As soon as he 
travels to 112 countries and negotiates a peace deal, a cease ﬁ  re...Or even spends 11 hours testifying in front of a congressional committee, he can talk to me about stamina. ”
Trump on releasing his tax returns: “I will release 
my tax returns against my lawyers’ wishes when she releases her 33,000 e-mails that have been deleted. As soon as she releases them, I will release. ”DEBATE,  from pg. 1One GNV restaurant hosted a drinking game for the debate
Molly Donovan / Alligator Staff 
Four large screens showed the debate at a watch party at the Hippodrome State Theatre on Monday night. By 9:30 p.m., the room was so crowded people sat cross-legged on the ﬂ  oor.
NOTEABLE QUOTESCredit: The Mark Kaye Show/Lauren JohnsonTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Mentions 
“the wall”
Uses the phrase
 “Believe Me”
Mentions
“Mexico”
Says 
“Make America Great Again”
LiesTakes a sip of water
Says  
“My daughter Chelsea”
Mentions  
“President Obama”
Says 
“Stronger Together”
LiesCoughsThe Great Debate
TRUMP CLINTON
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Paul Silva, a 19-year-old political science freshman and Hillary 
Clinton supporter for the 2016 presidential election, signs in on a laptop to the first 2016 presidential debate watch party held in the Reitz Union Auditorium on Monday evening.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Sarah Pattison, a 20-year-old third-year political science student and volunteer for UF’s College Democrats, passes out pizza to students who attended the first presidential debate watch party in the Reitz Union Auditorium on Monday evening.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Camya Robinson, an 18-year-old public health freshman, fills in a voter’s pledge card on the second floor of the Reitz Union before the 2016 presidential debate watch party on Monday evening. Students who attended the free event were given signs to show support for their respective candidates. “ America’s Direction” 
Clinton said eight years ago we had the worst 
financial crisis, which Trump rooted and profited off of.“That’s called business by the way, ” Trump interjected. 
On taxes, Trump said “I’m going to cut taxes bigly, 
and you’re going to raise taxes bigly. ” Clinton plans to raise taxes on the rich and Trump wants to cut them. “ Achieving Prosperity” 
On policing, Clinton said she believes in 
community policing. “We have to restore trust between communities and police, ” she said. “There are so many good grade police officers who equally want reform. ”
Trump agreed with Clinton, saying those on the 
no-fly list shouldn’t have guns. 
“Securing America”On the Iraq War, Trump said he never supported 
the war, which contradicts statements of support he made to Howard Stern in 2002. 
On cyber security, Clinton said she finds it 
concerning that other countries are attacking the U.S. “We need to make it very clear…the United States has much greater capacity and we are not going to sit idly by and permit state actors to go after our info, ” she said. FROM THE DEBATETUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Part-time customer service sales associate.Fill out an application in store.The UPS Store #2715, 5745 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL M-F 9am-7pm • Saturdays 9am-5pm     9-28-16-5-14
SALES ASSOCIATESGainesville Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram has sales opportunities for enthusiastic candi -
dates and we're willing to provide additional training to help develop your talents!  We are looking for full and part time associates and can offer a flexible schedule for students.  Many of our leads are inbound through the internet – we need staff to follow up via email and phone calls to get customers the information and pricing on our new and pre-owned vehicles.
We are a family owned dealership offering 
excellent working conditions with THE BEST PAY ON MAIN STREET!  If you have strong customer service skills and the drive to be successful, we want to talk to you!  Valid driver’s license & clean driving record re-quired.  Must be willing to submit to a back-ground check & drug screen.  EOE/DFWP  
 Send resume togreatdealershipjobs@gmail.com or apply in person, Mon - Fri; 9am - 4pm   3000 N Main Street ▪ Gainesville    9-30-16-4-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ACROSS
1 Civil __
4 Tropical fish with
large peepers
10 Add to the staff14 Jungle swinger15 Rapper whose
professionalname sounds like
a candy
16 Sport, for ports:
Abbr.
17 Kindled
18 Churchgoer’s “If
it’s meant to be”
20 Explorer Ericson22 Kitchy-__23 Blame taker24 Curtain material26 Another name for
the gladiolus
30 Cable box display32 Dispensable
candy
33 High bond rating
34 Geological epoch
in which
mammals arose
37 Leave __: reward
the waiter
38 Post-Cold War
hierarchy ... and
what is literallycontained in thecircled squares
42 Mortar carriers43 __ Fables44 Nonprofit URL
ending
45 Adherent’s suffix
47 Muscat residents51 Out-of-the-office
assignment
55 Point of view
56 Peau de __:
satin-weave cloth
57 Wide shoe width59 In any way60 They’re often
passed on theroad
64 Holiday threshold
65 Starting course66 Austrian capital
67 “__ Misérables”
68 Chris of “The
Good Wife”
69 First female
Shuttle pilot __Collins
70 H.S. 12th-graders
DOWN
1 NYSE locale2 Per unit3 Head to bed4 Brussels’ land:
Abbr.
5 “Don’t worry
about me”
6 Copter
predecessors
7 Provide with
funding
8 Evergreen that’s
a homophone of
a vowel
9 Political refugee
10 Judaism : kosher ::
Islam : __
11 Start12 Took part in a
marathon
13 Cake mix need19 City southwest of
Warsaw
21 Reporter’s
quintet ofquestions
25 Ask for Whiskas,
perhaps
27 Opinion
columns
28 Lion’s den29 Jabber31 Prefix with
friendly
35 Muse of poetry36 Marlins’ MLB div.
37 Source of media
revenue38 “Me neither”
39 Barely beats
40 Valentine card
hugs
41 LP measures42 Baseball inst. in
Cooperstown
45 “__ it my way”46 Turn sharply48 Orange 
choices
49 “Well, __!”:
“What anoutrage!”50 Blood pressure
elevator
52 Acid test
outcome, possibly
53 Party hearty54 Nancy Drew
creator Carolyn
58 White-tailed
coastal bird
60 Nine-digit ID61 Lav, in Bath62 Three on a
sundial
63 __ Antonio
By Lonnie Burton and Nadine Anderton
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/27/1609/27/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 27, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
PT janitorial office/home/apartment cleaners 
needed ASAP day and night shifts available. Weekly pay and gas distributed $8.50/hr and must own and drive own car..If interested please call 352-214-0868      10-3-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Free college football prediction competition with $500 prize. 1 week left to register. For details check out http://www.thesportpick.com/college-foot -
ball-contest/      9-28-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestELVIS ROCKS!
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Led by sophomore Gordon Neale, the Florida men's golf team secured a tournament victory on Monday. Read the story on pg. 15Start time announced for Florida vs. LSU
The Florida football team will take on LSU at noon on Oct. 8, the Southeast-
ern Conference announced Monday. The game will be played in Gainesville and will air on ESPN. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After being rocked at Rocky Top, 
the Florida football team left its 
somber locker room and jumped on the team plane back to Gainesville. Every player re-watched the 38-28 loss to Tennessee on his iPad dur-ing the ﬂ  ight, in disbelief that they had let an 18-point halftime lead morph into a 10-point loss. After 
a day to process what happened, 
here are three things we learned from coach Jim McElwain’s press 
conference on Monday.
Luke Del Rio is still the 
team’s leader:
After Florida experienced its 
worst collapse in recent memory, 
it wasn’t quarterback Austin Ap-
pleby who spoke to the team in the locker room after the game.
It was injured quarterback 
Luke Del Rio.
“It was big. He’s our leader as 
a quarterback, even though he didn’t play,” redshirt senior safety Marcus Maye said on Monday. “His message was just everybody stick together. We’re still good. We’re still, as a team, we’re con-ﬁ  dent.”
Before Del Rio injured his MCL against North Texas on Sept. 17, he was UF’s unquestioned leader. He had won the starting quarter-back job over Appleby through UF’s preseason camp and led the team to a 3-0 record, ranking fourth in the Southeastern Confer-ence in passing yards (762) and tying for fourth in passing touch-downs (six).
Then Appleby replaced him. 
And while the graduate transfer may be using this opportunity to win the starting job, it’s clear teammates still view Del Rio as 
their leader.
Appleby isn’t fazed.
“I don’t count my reps. I make 
my reps count,” Appleby said. “I would like to at least put some 
pressure on and be the quarter-
back for this team. I think I am. 
I didn’t come here not to be. But again, that’s a question for coach Mac and hopefully my play takes 
care of itself.”
Effort wasn’t the issue in 
loss:
McElwain was thrilled with the 
ﬁ  rst half after reviewing the game 
tape.
He saw pressure in Tennessee’s 
backﬁ  eld, long completions to UF  Three things we learned from UF's first loss
The Florida players ﬁ  led one-by-one into a crammed media room in the bowels of Neyland Stadium, fresh off a 38-
28 loss to Tennessee.
Running back Mark Thomp-
son, linebacker Alex Anzalone, quarterback Austin Appleby and cornerback Quincy Wilson each took his turn speaking with re-porters after blowing a three-touchdown lead, the largest collapse by the Gators since a loss to Miami in 2003.
Each echoed the same sentiment: No na-
tional championship team at Florida has ever gone undefeated.
Yes, that is true. All three of Florida’s na-
tional championship teams had one loss.But no, that does not justify 
this loss. Not the way the Gators played in the second half. Not in the ﬁ  rst chance Florida had to prove itself against a top op-ponent. Not after all the smack talk and the guarantees and the deﬁ  nites the team boasted about heading into the game.
“It sucks the way it hap-
pened,” Anzalone said.
If so, then the Gators need to show it.The players acknowledged they were hurt.Tears and sad faces enveloped the locker 
room. Appleby, who had 296 passing yards and three touchdowns, threw his shoulder pads on the ﬂ  oor. Florida’s championship past doesn’t 
justify loss against TennesseeINGILDSEN WON A DIVISION II 
SINGLES TITLE IN HIS 
FIRST TOURNAMENT.
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team impressed 
on the ﬁ  nal day of the Southern Intercolle-giate Championships.
UF had one member of its roster — fresh-
man Johannes Ingildsen — competing in the singles championship in the ﬁ  rst tournament of his collegiate career.
On Monday, he took home the champion-
ship in the Division II draw. He defeated Lou-isville’s Parker Wynn in two close matches, 7-6, 6-4.  
Semiﬁ  nal matches for doubles were also 
played Monday.
In the Division I draw, senior duo Elliott 
Orkin and Maxx Lipman defeated Georgia Tech's Michael Kay and Daniel Yun 6-1, 6-2. But in the championship match, the pair lost 
to Georgia’s Walker Duncan and Jan Zielin-
ski, 4-6, 7-5, 10-5.
And in the Division II doubles semiﬁ  nals, 
Christian Harris and Sam Edwards from 
Clemson won over sophomore McClain Kes-
sler and freshman Joseph Guillin in an excit-
ing match, 6-4, 4-6, 11-9.
With Jordan Belga’s two singles champi-
onships in two weeks, along with the domi-
nating performance by Gators in both the Bedford Cup and the Southern Intercolle-giate Championships, UF has performed well 
lately and will look to continue doing so in 
its next competition in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on 
Saturday. 
The Gators will be playing in the ITA All-
American tournament, with pre-qualifying 
rounds beginning Saturday and qualifying 
rounds starting on Monday. 
    @camundson_
            camundson@alligator.org Tennis freshman impresses  
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Luke Del Rio stands on the sideline during Florida's 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Saturday 
in Knoxville. It is unknown when Del Rio, who has an injured left knee, will return to the ﬁ  eld. 
FEARSOME MCPHERSON / OPINION
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126McElwain said efort not issue 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
receivers (ﬁ  ve passes over 20 yards) and mul-
tiple stops on defense. The Gators forced three punts, one turnover on downs and one intercep-tion.
And then, in the second half, he saw his en-
tire gameplan disintegrate.
But it wasn’t for lack of effort.“Our effort was good,” McElwain said on 
Monday. “They took some things away and we didn’t take advantage of what they were taking away.”
The coach hinted that Tennessee had keyed 
in on UF’s gameplan to start the second half, and the Gators failed to make the correct adjustments 
in response.
And then, McElwain delivered this moment 
of honesty:
“They outplayed us,” he said. “Plain and 
simple.”
Special teams was an abomination: 
Missed tackles, poor coverage and one muffed 
punt.
On Saturday, it seemed like everything that 
could have gone wrong for Florida’s special 
teams unit did.
Florida allowed about 10.2 yards per punt re-
turn, it’s worst of the season.
“I’m really disappointed in how our gunners 
covered,” McElwain said. “We’ve gotta get bet-ter there because we had them in place. The guy 
made us miss a couple times.”
In its own return game, the Gators were forced 
to fair catch each time they received a punt, and 
returner Antonio Callaway even muffed a punt inside his own 5-yard line in the ﬁ  rst quarter, handing possession back to the Volunteers.
“You’re supposed to put your heels at the 
eight and not go backwards. He went back-wards,” McElwain said. “We’ve gotta get better at that.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 13McElwain: special 
teams must improve“That was the most emotional locker 
room that I’ve ever been in,” Appleby 
said Monday. “There were a lot of guys that were really hurt. We fully expected 
to win that game and we started fast, 
and we just came up a little bit short.”
But instead of the loss lighting a ﬁ  re 
under the team, the Gators seemed to 
disguise their disappointment behind 
defeated demeanors even though they 
accurately said they have everything still to play for.
That’s not how those one-loss na-
tional championship team’s respond.
The prime example of this came in 
2008.
Did Tim Tebow enter his press con-
ference after Florida’s 31-30 loss to Ole Miss and simply say the Rebels were the better team that day? A plaque inside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium with Tebow’s 96-word promise says otherwise.
“I just want to say one thing: To the 
fans and everybody in Gator Nation, I’m sorry. Extremely sorry,” Tebow said. “I promise you one thing: A lot of good will come out of this. You will never see any player in the entire country play as hard as I will play the rest of the sea-son. You will never see someone push the rest of the team as hard as I will push everybody the rest of the season. You will never see a team play harder than we will the rest of the season. God bless.”
Are the Gators out of the running for 
the 2016 SEC Championship? Not by any means.
Will it help the team to be optimistic? 
Yes.
But without a sense of energy, a 
driving force and a bubbling passion, the rest of the season will be a tough road should the Gators encounter more adversity along the way.
Jordan McPherson is a sports 
writer. Contact him at jmcpherson@alligator.org and follow him on Twit-ter @J_McPherson1126. COLUMN,  from pg 13
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Austin Appleby throws a pass during Florida's 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Saturday at Neyland Stadium. 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer 
Sophomore Sam Horsfield may have 
struggled over his two days at the Windon 
Memorial Classic, but one moment stood out.
On the par-3 third hole in the final 
round, Horsfield watched as his ball sailed through the air and into the hole on his first shot.
Horsfield’s hole-in-one was just one of many bright spots for the Gators as they took home the title in Glenview, Illinois, 
with a 3-under-par score. 
They were also the only team to finish 
below par.
Another bright spot was the play of 
sophomore Gordon Neale and freshman 
Andy Zhang.
Neale, who finished the tournament 
tied for second at 4 under par, collected 
five birdies and five bogeys in the final 
round. Zhang, playing in his first college tour
-
nament, made five birdies, five bogeys and a triple bogey in his final round of the tournament to place sixth at 3 under.
Junior Ryan Celano, the only other 
Gator to finish in the top 10 with a share of eighth, finished at 1 over par with four birdies, four bogeys and a double bogey.
Senior Ryan Orr finished at 5 over par 
and in a tie for 21st, collected four birdies, three bogeys and a double bogey.
Meanwhile, Horsfield struggled.Despite his hole-in-one, he only made 
two birdies and tacked on six bogeys, end
-
ing with a 14-over-par score and a tie for 54th.
“This provided some confidence that 
we could win and pull off a strong win and we’re prepared now to work hard this week to get ready for this weekend in Tex
-
as,” associate coach John Handrigan said in a release.
The Gators will look to add to their 
success with another title on Oct. 2 at the Nike Golf Collegiate Invitational in Dallas. 
Women’s team
The Florida women’s golf team contin
-
ued to fall behind in the ANNIKA Classic 
in Orlando on Monday.
After the second round of the tourna -
ment, UF is sitting at 8 under par and in sixth place, 17 strokes behind tournament leader UCLA.  
Two Gators — senior Maria Torres and 
freshman Carlotta Ricolfi — are currently 
below par. 
Torres, who is in a tie for 12th with a 
5-under-par score, collected three birdies and two bogeys en route to a 1-under-par 
performance on Monday.
Ricolfi finished the round with a 1-un
-
der-par score, collecting two birdies and one bogey, good for a share of 26th and a 2-under-par tournament score.
And sophomore Sam Wagner produced 
a team-best 2-under-par score on the day, 
railing off three birdies and one bogey to 
finish the day with a share of 34th and a 
tournament score of 1 over par.
Freshman Marta Perez made seven bo
-
geys and five birdies to place in a tie for 
36th and place her tournament score at 2 over par. 
After starting the day at 1 under par, 
senior Karolina Vlckova collected five bo
-
geys to just one birdie, setting her score at three over par and placing her in a tie for 43rd.
The Gators finish the ANNIKA Classic 
on Tuesday with Vlckova teeing off at 8 a.m.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFlorida men’s golf takes title, women fall behind
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield looks on during the 2016 SunTrust Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Gregg Troy encourages his team during Florida's match against Auburn on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center. 
Gordon Neale led the men
SWIMMING
By Drew Kozlin
Sports Writer
The Gators dominated the com-
petition this past weekend at the 
All-Florida Invitational, but they weren’t just competing against the opposition.
They were also deadlocked in a 
battle against their coaches.
UF coach Gregg Troy said Mon-
day that he used the first meet as an opportunity to “handicap” his players and put them in various scenarios that would affect them adversely.
 “A lot of them swam some 
unusual events or something they aren’t quite as skilled at," Troy said.
Troy added that he created 
tough mental conditions for his players throughout the tournament.
“We made the days a little bit 
extra long with some activities we 
did before and after,” Troy said. “We’re looking for how they would 
respond in pressure situations and 
tough situations.”
Troy said he mainly uses the 
first six weeks of the season to en-
sure the team is physically fit, be-cause within the coming months, Florida's schedule becomes more difficult.
Its October schedule begins with 
a top-50 opponent in in-state ri-
val No. 39 Florida State and then 
becomes even more brutal as the Gators will take on both No. 1 Tex-as and No. 9 Indiana in Blooming-ton, Indiana, on Oct. 21.
After that, the Gators will shift 
their focus to an arduous confer-ence slate in hopes of position-ing themselves for another year 
of Southeastern Conference and 
NCAA Championship runs.
dkozlin@alligator.org
        @DrewKoz2Troy challenges team16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2016
THIS WEEK IN  
UF SPORTS
T oday:
• Women's golf @ Annika Classic 
Wednesday: • Volleyball vs. Kentucky, 8 p.m., SEC Network 
Friday: • Soccer @ LSU, 8 p.m.
Saturday: • Football @ Vanderbilt, noon, SEC Net-work 
• Cross Country @ Paul Short Run
• Men's tennis @ ITA All-American Day 1
• Women's tennis @ Riviera ITA All American Championships, all day
Sunday: • Men's golf @ Nike Golf Collegiate Invi-tational, all day
• Men's tennis @ ITA All-American Day 2
• Women's tennis @ Riviera ITA All American Championships, all day
• Volleyball vs. T ennessee, noon, SEC NetworkUF IS REL YING ON ITS 
FRESHMEN TO TAKE  
THE NEXT STEP .
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Florida volleyball team 
snuck into the weekend’s South -
eastern Conference opener with 
caution. The then-No. 6-ranked 
Gators were set to face a pair of 
teams that had already gotten off to solid starts to the year.
On Friday night, Florida faced 
an Ole Miss team that had won 11 of its first 13 games. On Sun
-
day afternoon, Florida squared off against a 12-2 Alabama team 
that had recently knocked off 
then-No. 19 Texas A&M.
The weekend was supposed 
to be a battle.
It wasn’t.The Gators (12-1, 2-0 SEC) 
dropped just one set to the Reb
-
els and defeated the Crimson Tide in a clean sweep.
To UF coach Mary Wise, how
-
ever, this team can still improve.
“I don’t think any of us real -
ize just how much this team, the ability for them to improve from 
all 18 players on the roster,” 
Wise said, “so much of that is because of how hard they work 
and their attention to detail.”
Based on the performances of 
Florida’s upperclassmen, it’s dif
-
ficult to see how the team can improve.
Juniors Caroline Knop and 
Carli Snyder have been on a tear so far this season.
Knop, who registered a ca
-
reer-high 31 digs against Ole 
Miss, has been an anchor for the 
Gators’ backcourt, leading the 
team in digs (167) and digs per set (3.8).
Snyder, along with senior 
Alex Holston and fellow junior Rhamat Alhassan, has been a fo
-
cal point of Florida’s deadly at -
tack. 
The 6-foot-1 outside hitter 
leads the team with 167 kills and has totaled 180 points.
So how does a team that fea
-
tures three dominant point scor -
ers and an elite defensive spe -
cialist improve?
The answer lies with its fresh -
men — all eight of them.
“A lot of times you have vet -
eran teams that they’re just not gonna get that much better over 
the course of a season,” Wise 
said. “Obviously, our young players. Starting from ground 
zero.”
Leading that group of fresh
-
men are 6-foot-8 middle blocker 
Rachael Kramer and 6-foot-3 out -
side hitter Morgyn Greer. 
Kramer, who played just 
one set in three of her first four games this season, is now a fix
-
ture in the Gators’ rotation, lead -
ing all freshmen in points (83.5), kills (62) and kills per set (2.14).Greer isn’t far behind. In 34 sets, she has accrued 57 
points and 51 kills, including a nine-kill performance against Morgan State on Sept. 3. 
Delving further into its SEC 
schedule, Florida will continue to rely on the fearsome quartet of Knop, Snyder, Alhassan and Holston.
But its freshmen will be there 
to help out. 
The Gators return Wednesday 
to the Lemerand Athletic Center for an 8 p.m. showdown with the Kentucky Wildcats.“We think it’ll be a great 
match come Wednesday night,” 
Wise said.  
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgDespite 12-1 start, No. 5 Florida still has room to improve
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise (right) talks with outside hitter Shainah Joseph (15) and the rest of the Florida 
volleyball team at a timeout during UF’s 3-1 win over Marshall on Sept. 17 in the Lemerand Center.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Jalen T abor (center) is hugged by linebacker Alex Anzalone (right) and safety Nick Washington (left) after T abor intercepted a pass during Florida’s 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Saturday at Neyland Stadium.
