We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 103 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
Alicia Boren is shining for 
UF gymnastics
The freshman clinched her ﬁ  rst 
all-around title on Friday, pg. 13
Research Roundup
Mosquitoes, asthma and leaders, pg. 3
UF students try on hijabs for Islam 
Appreciation Month
Students wear hijabs around campus, pg. 8Preparing for graduation?
Check out deadlines and cost breakdowns 
for graduation preparations, pg. 9
 Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
OPEN FOR BOWLING
Steven Chang, a 25-year-old UF English Language Institute student, rolls a bowling ball down a lane in the Reitz Union Game 
Room, which opened its doors on Monday. Students can bowl, play pingpong and shoot billiards for free until Friday. 
THE GRAFFITI REFERENCED  
ORGANIC CHEMISTRY.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Dimitri Kampouris, 20, sat outside Keene-
Flint Hall on Monday afternoon and watched 
a team from UF’s Physical Plant Division 
wash off vulgar words and scribbles on the side of the building.
He said it seemed whoever did it could’ve 
used their time more wisely.
“If you took the time to do all that, and 
you’re clearly up at night, why don’t you 
take the time to do practice problems?” the 
UF microbiology and cell science sophomore 
said.
Monday, multiple vulgar words were 
spray painted on the side of Keene-Flint Hall. “F**k chem” was written in uneven let-
ters. Under it was a mess of overlapping scribbles in black, blue and white paint. The Om sign, a symbol for peace, was drawn in blue.
On the side of the pillars, the culprit 
wrote, “F**k orgo,” referring to organic chemistry.
Jamie Luskin, a teaching assistant for Keene-Flint Hall graﬃ   ti removed
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
As the Department of Health’s website 
posts daily updates on the Zika virus, travel-ing UF staff and students are taking precau-
tions.
The Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention have recorded 26 countries in Central 
and South America with active mosquito-
borne transmission.
The virus’ presence in North America, in-
cluding the case that arose in Alachua County 
on Friday, is likely the result of travelers re-turning to the U.S. from these areas, according 
to a DOH update Monday.
UF Study Abroad services offer trips to 
more than a dozen South and Central Ameri-
can countries.
Angela Miller, the director of UF Study 
Abroad services, said the university sent an alert on the outbreak to students who signed 
up for a trip.
No students have canceled their study 
abroad trips thus far.
“We are monitoring the situation,” Miller 
said. “Students are advised to visit the CDC 
website, which has some recommendations on how to prevent the virus.”
While not likely, she said trips could be 
canceled if the situation becomes more severe.
“I’m not predicting that this is going to be Zika virus has 
little eﬀ  ect on student travels
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF alumni are competing 
on this season of “The Amazing 
Race.”
Brodie Smith, 28, and Kurt Gib-
son, 30, met in 2006 through UF’s 
Ultimate Frisbee team. Now, the 
two are competing on the real-ity show, where contestants race around the world trying to get to 
destinations ﬁ  rst to win $1 million.
Contestants this season had 
to be prominent on social media. 
Smith gained about 6 million fol-lowers across his social media ac-counts by posting videos of him-self throwing trick, or complicated, Frisbee shots, he said. He grew up watching the show with his family.
“I obviously was a fan of the 
show from the beginning,” he said.
He said one of his ﬁ  rst videos 
was him throwing trick shots by Century Tower and the Swamp. Now, he makes content for social media.
Gibson, who now plays in an 
ultimate Frisbee league with Smith 
in Dallas, Texas, said the two of 
them still wear UF clothes to team practices.“I wear only Gator stuff,” he 
said. “We kind of bleed orange and blue.”
He said he’s only missed one 
season of ultimate Frisbee in his life — when he was diagnosed with stage-three colon cancer in 2008.
“I’m pretty blessed to have got-
ten through it with ﬂ  ying colors,” 
he said. “I was able to get my 
strength back and play.”
After ﬁ  nishing six months of chemotherapy, he said he was 
back on the ﬁ  eld. His experience 
made him want to inspire others ﬁ  ghting cancer.
“As negative as it was, I think 
so much positive came from it,” Gibson said.
Now, Gibson is traveling across 
the world on the show.
“Why wouldn’t you want to go 
on ‘The Amazing Race?’” he said. “That was really our attitude to-UF alumni competing on ‘The Amazing Race’ reality showSEE GRAFFITI,  PAGE 4
SEE RACE,  PAGE 4SEE ZIKA,  PAGE 4TRAVEL
Next episode airs Friday“W e are monitoring the situation.”
Angela Miller
 director of UF Study Abroad servicesSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
The Beginner’s Photography 
Workshop
Friday from 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., 
Asian Pacific Islander American 
Affairs and Sparks Magazine are re-offering their beginner photography workshop to teach 
skills needed for capturing a 
professional-quality photo. Learn fundamental concepts of photography using DSLR cameras. You will then have 
an opportunity to test your 
skills outside. They hope APIA-identified and non-APIA identi-fied individuals will learn to ex-
press themselves through this 
creative medium and become inspired to submit to the 2015-2016 APIA Anthology. Please bring your own camera. A lim-
ited number of cameras will be 
provided.
Paint the White House black
UF’s African American Studies program will sponsor two lectures examining the presi-dency of Barack Obama on Wednesday and Thursday. 
Both lectures are co-sponsored 
by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, UF’s Department of Political Science and UF’s 
Center for the Humanities and 
the Public Sphere. At the first event, Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora, Michael Jeffries, an associate professor 
of American Studies at Wellesley 
College, will discuss his book, “Paint the White House Black: Barack Obama and the Meaning 
of Race in America.” Professor 
Jeffries received a doctorate in African-American studies with an emphasis in sociology from Harvard University.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. 
in the Entomology Building, 
situated at 970 Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn 
about Toastmasters. For de-
tails about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking 
Gators Facebook group page. 
“The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered 
to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in 
greater self-confidence and per-
sonal growth.”
Harn Museum Writing 
Competition: Words on 
Canvas
Words on Canvas is a yearly 
writing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested 
in inspiring museumgoers by 
writing poetry or prose con-nected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College stu-dents are welcome to partici-
pate. Winning contestants will 
be awarded Harn merchandise and students may submit until Sunday. Entry is simple and 
free of charge. For more infor-
mation, please visit our website at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncan-vas.
2016 Dr. Ronald C. Foreman 
LectureThursday at 6 p.m. in the Pugh Hall Ocora, Professor Fredrick 
Harris, a professor of politi-
cal science and director of the Center on African American Politics and Society, will give the annual Dr. Ronald C. Foreman 
Lecture, which honors the UF 
African American Studies pro-gram’s first director. Professor Harris conducts research on 
racial and ethnic political par-
ticipation, social movements, religion and politics; however, his primary specialization is African-American politics. The 
title of his lecture is “The Rise, 
Decline, and Rebirth of Black Politics in the Age of Obama,” from his book, “The Price of the 
Ticket: Barack Obama and the 
Rise and Fall of Black Politics.” (Oxford University, 2012)
Sex in the Swamp Returns to UF 
on ThursdayThe Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF, in partnership with the UF Student 
Health Care Center, is proud 
to announce a renewed Sex in the Swamp event coming to the Florida Gym on Thursday. Starting at 7 p.m., join campus 
and community organizations 
for a variety of great spring break tips, information and freebies, including: a live SEXpert panel, 
free food, giveaways and free 
tank tops and sunglasses for the first 200 students. For more information and to RSVP on Facebook, visit facebook.com/events/1666178790317109.
Florida Museum closed Feb. 22 
to Feb. 24The Florida Museum of Natural History, including the Butterfly 
Rainforest exhibit, will be 
closed Feb. 22 to Feb. 24 for preventive fumigation to pro-tect its Lepidoptera collections 
and library resources. The 
museum will reopen Feb. 25. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for more information.
GatorNights
GatorNights will celebrate its 15-year anniversary and the grand re-opening of the Reitz 
Union renovation and expan-
sion with a Wonderland-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. The event will feature free bowling in the newly renovated 
game room, a zip line, carnival 
rides, a T-shirt giveaway, per-formances from Theatre Strike Force, No Southern Accent 
and The Treble Makers and a 
comedy show featuring Ron Funches. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Spectre” at 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event 
is free for UF students with 
their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to par-ticipate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To be considered for publica-tion in the next day’s newspa-
per, please submit the event be-
fore 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 103
HIGH  75° LOW  45°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloBy Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Hispanic-Latino Engage-
ment Center will open a new location 
Wednesday.
“La Salita” will be an expansion 
of La Casita, which was established 
in 1994. La Casita is on West Univer-
sity Avenue, but its new engagement center will be on the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union. Casita is Spanish for “little house,” while salita is Spanish for “little living room.”
After Wednesday, UF will be the only institution in the country to have two spaces for Latino students, said Ralphy Lopez, one of the ambas-
sadors overseeing the grand opening.
“It’s a living-room-style atmo-
sphere where we will host discus-
sions and people can come in and do their homework,” the 21-year-old said. “The 38 ambassadors we have will matriculate from La Casita to La Salita.”
Alexandra Rodriguez, a UF adver-
tising sophomore, said she has been planning the grand opening since Fall.“There will be two students per-
forming a spoken word — which is like free-form poetry — the cutting of 
the ribbon and a representative from 
the Hispanic alumni association,”  the 20-year-old said.
Nadia Mourad, a UF microbiology 
and cell science sophomore, said she has been going to La Casita to study since her freshman year.
“It’s better than the library: less 
people and free coffee,” the 20-year-
old said. “I look forward to seeing 
the new space. I hope it has the same aura and is as comfortable.”TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Students sit in the Hispanic-Latino Engagement Center on the second floor of the Reitz Union on 
Monday. “La Salita” will have its grand opening Wednesday at noon.
‘La Salita’ to open WednesdayCAMPUS
By Alena Poulin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students will discuss over-
population issues in a TEDx-
style talk Friday.
One World UF will host its 
second annual conference on ﬁ  nding solutions to problems such as overpopulation. Last 
year, about 300 people attended 
the talk. This year, the group hopes to increase attendance.
The issue One World UF aims 
to address is that by 2050, the world’s population is expected 
to exceed 9.6 billion people, 
said Anthony Andenoro, the di-rector of One World UF.
The event will include stu-dent speakers from UF, profes-sionals from companies such as 
Siemens and H.M.Clause, a seed 
company. 
There will also be an exhibi-
tion combining art and science and innovation stations. Partici-
pants can also share their own 
ideas about solutions to over-population, Andenoro said.
“What we know is that if we 
are going to create interdisci-plinary solutions that deal with interdisciplinary problems that affect everyone in our world, we’re going to need as many dif-
ferent minds around the table as 
possible,” Andenoro said.
Taylor Chaisson, a 20-year-
old UF agricultural operations 
management junior, said she 
attended the conference last year and joined UF’s Challenge 2050 certiﬁ  cate program, which teaches students to create global 
change, as a result. 
Shiela Chancoco, a UF biol-
ogy sophomore, said she’ll at-
tend Friday.
“I think it’s important be-
cause it’s an issue that’s been ignored, and it’s a current prob-lem” the 20-year-old said. One World UF to host 
second conference
Study finds assertive women are 
perceived well as leaders
A study by a UF assistant professor and Michigan State 
University professor found women beneﬁ  t from being as-
sertive at work.
Klodiana Lanaj, a UF professor of management, and 
John Hollenbeck, an MSU professor of management,  com-
pleted their research to examine whether statements Sheryl 
Sandberg, the chief operating ofﬁ  cer of Facebook, said about women needing to be more assertive in the work-place were true, Hollenbeck said.
The study aimed to investigate the phenomenon of over-
emergence in the workplace, he said. This idea states that in a group working toward a common goal, a leader will always emerge.
“Males tend to emerge as leaders even if they aren’t the 
most effective,” Hollenbeck said.
To do the research, the two chose 181 masters of busi-
ness administration candidates who were split into 36 self-managed teams, with at least one woman on each team. Three surveys were given, measuring personality, effective-ness in completing activities and leadership.
The results showed women had a better chance of 
emerging as leaders than men, as long as their assertive-ness was perceived as helping the group, he said. This con-
ﬂ  icts with the popular notion that women who are outspo-
ken are perceived negatively.
“I think this is a conversation changer about what we 
have to do to emerge as leaders,” Hollenbeck said.Study group developing free app for 
teens with asthma
A UF study group is currently in the process of devel-
oping a free program that could help teens manage their 
asthma.
David Fedele, the principal investigator for the study, 
said he is focusing on those aged 12 to 15 with asthma 
because they are expected to be more independent in man-
aging the disease. 
“Our ﬁ  rst goal is to develop an app,” Fedele said.The mobile app, Team Speak, will be available on any 
Internet-enabled device, not just smartphones, he said.
Once the app is designed, families volunteering for the 
study will be put in one of two groups for a randomized control trial, he said.
The active group will use the mobile program while the 
control group will learn to manage asthma without it, he said. There will be a 4-month period where the researchers will work with the families and study the results. After that, they will follow up with the participants for four months.
The group wanted to look at technology to help these 
teens with asthma because teens are constantly tied to their cellphones, he said.
Families who volunteer and are selected will be compen-
sated, Fedele said. The research is funded with a $275,000 
grant from the National Institutes of Health that the team 
received last January, he said.
Fedele said he hopes the app will help teens take the 
responsibility from their parents to manage their asthma.UF professor finds pesticide for disease-
carrying mosquitoes
A UF professor has found a pesticide that kills mosquito 
larvae.
The pesticide — which kills mosquitoes that could carry 
diseases such as the Zika virus and yellow fever — is called 
Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis, said Barry Alto, an assis-
tant professor at UF’s Florida Medical Entomology Labora-
tory. 
The Zika virus is spread by the same mosquitoes that 
transmit yellow fever. While there is no cure for Zika, the disease can be controlled through pesticides that kill mos-quito larvae, he said.
Alto said he used the pesticide, Bti, to kill the mosqui-
toes in their larval stage. When the bacterium is released into ponds and other bodies of water where a mosquito 
larva is found, it produces a toxin that paralyzes the stom-
ach of the larva, starving it to death.
Reducing the number of larvae reduces the number of 
mature, pathogen-carrying mosquitoes, he said.
The Bti was tested in a controlled laboratory experiment, 
Alto said. He tested varying doses of the pesticide with vari-ous concentrations of larvae against a control group. He said he hopes the pesticide keeps people safe in the future.
“The most effective way to prevent mosquito-borne vi-
ruses to people would be an effective vaccine, but in the absence, the next way would be to reduce the active mos-quitoes,” Alto said. “If there are fewer around, then you are protecting yourself from the pathogens they transmit.”
- John Avery Guyton - JW Glass - JW GlassRESEARCH ROUNDUP“What we know is 
that if we are going to 
create interdisciplinary 
solutions that deal with 
interdisciplinary problems 
that afect everyone in our 
world, we’re going to need 
as many diferent minds 
around the table as possible.”
Anthony Andenoro
director of One World UFOrganic Chemistry 2, said she read 
about the graffiti on Facebook after another TA posted a picture of it Sunday morning.
The 23-year-old UF chemistry se-
nior said she was disappointed that whoever graffitied the hall would disrespect the course and depart-ment.
“It kind of offended me on a lot 
of levels,” she said. “I think it shows a lack of values for the opportuni-ties that we have here,” Luskin said.  
Mo Ledo, a UF Physical Plant 
worker, said these acts of vandalism aren’t uncommon.
Sometimes it’s done in chalk, 
which is easier to take off, he said. 
When spray paint is used, it re-
quires chemicals and pressurized water to take it off.
“It seems like somebody got a 
bad grade,” Ledo said, referring to the insults directed toward chemis-try.
He said it’s the third or fourth 
time they’ve had to wash off graffiti 
this semester.“Just another day,” Ledo said.
Students who waited for their 
class in Keene-Flint, Room 50, sat 
and watched as a three-person team 
sprayed the graffiti with chemicals.
After the process, which took 
about an hour and a half, all that 
was left was a yellow stain on one 
of the pillars.
Joe Parrish, a graduate assis-
tant for American History to 1877, looked for signs of the graffiti after it 
was washed away. He’s never seen 
graffiti on campus, but he said at least it’s a victimless crime.
“I think it’s a stupid way to get in 
trouble,” he said.
Kampouris said he found it iron-
ic that a student used spray paint, which is made up of chemicals, to insult chemistry.
“To do it on your own campus 
because you’re frustrated shows a lack of maturity,” Kampouris said. “Which simply shows you’re not 
ready to be here.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
ABOUT 60 STUDENTS ATTENDED.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
In a lecture room Monday, Alfonso 
Mejia stood up and told students how he 
dropped out of rushing for his fraternity because he knew he would never be UF Student Body president.
“I gave up at UF,” the 22-year-old UF 
finance senior said. “It’s true. It’s all real.”
About 60 students showed up at Tur-
lington Hall to listen to Sabrina Philipp, a former District A senator with Swamp Party. She spoke about the history of Stu-dent Government and The System, which refers to an institutionalized practice in SG by which students with Greek affiliations 
receive preference for positions and votes 
are coerced, according to the Not My Sys-tem movement.
After posting a video Sunday night, 
her tell-all video has garnered more than 77,000 views as of press time.
Not My System, a movement of stu-
dents looking to open communication between SG and students, invited UF ad-ministrators and influential students in SG to discuss how to destabilize The System. None of those invited, including UF Presi-
dent Kent Fuchs and Vice President for 
Student Affairs Dave Kratzer, attended.
Philipp said she hopes Fuchs can help 
change SG.
“It’s not just about putting a watchdog 
on The System — it’s about destabilizing it,” she said.
Philipp said she is no longer afraid of 
the consequences.
“I’m here to tell you it’s all true. I’m 
in a sorority, I’m in (Florida) Blue Key,” 
Philipp said. “I think that I have legitima-
cy when I come forward.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgGroup discusses SG tell-all video at town hall meeting 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Sabrina Philipp takes questions during the Not My System town hall meeting at 
Turlington Hall on Monday evening.
Alex Maminakis / Alligator Staff
Pictured is a slew of graffiti painted outside UF’s Keene-Flint Hall. Acts of vandalism aren’t uncommon, a UF Physical Plant worker said, and when spray paint is involved, chemicals and pressure washing is required to remove the graffiti.
wards it.”
While filming, he and Smith worked 
well as a team because they’re both com-
petitive, Gibson said.
“Everyone on the race had their mo-
ments,” he said. “If adversity comes, we 
know how to quickly overcome it.”
Smith said there wasn’t much informa-
tion about rules for the race online. Expe-
riencing the race was more gruelling than he expected, both physically and mentally.“Really, all you could do was just get fa-
miliar with the rules,” he said. “You can’t really simulate what the race is.”
Gibson said his training for ultimate 
Frisbee helped prepare him physically for the race.
Besides working out, Gibson said he 
watched previous episodes of the show to understand the race.
“When I want to succeed at something, I 
put my heart and soul into it,” he said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgRACE,  from pg 1They worked as a team
a huge issue, but it does have national atten-
tion,” Miller said. “I want students to take the proper precautionary measures.”
Valerie Ferretti is traveling to Nicaragua 
for a mission trip with Filter of Hope during Spring Break. About 40 students are traveling to the country in Central America and provid-ing water filters to those in need.
Ferretti said someone recently posted on 
the group’s Facebook page about the Zika vi-rus, asking if they should be concerned.
Another group member then linked to a 
CDC prevention article in the comments, she said.
Ferretti, a 19-year-old UF special educa-
tion sophomore, said she would go on the trip no matter what.
“I’m going to wear long sleeves and long 
pants and basically bathe in mosquito repel-lent,” she said. “My mom even ordered me a 
mosquito net to take and didn’t tell me; it just 
showed up at my door. I guess she’s more worried than me.”ZIKA,  from pg1About 40 students will travelGRAFFITI,  from pg 1UF has removed graffiti about four times this semester“I’m here to tell you it’s all true. I’m in 
a sorority, I’m in (Florida) Blue Key. 
I think that I have legitimacy when I 
come forward.”
Sabrina Philipp
former District A senatorTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
DOG SKATING
Kirra, a 3-year-old Siberian Husky, pulls her owner, 22-year-old UF 
nursing senior Stephanie Jelnicky, on a borrowed skateboard out-side the Reitz Union on Monday evening. “Mush, mush!” Jelnicky said.
THE PROJECT WILL DONATE 3-D 
PRINTERS TO CHILDREN. 
By Cecilia Mazanec
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF professor will help give 3-D printers and 
scanners to children in Florida and California.
Pavlo “Pasha” Antonenko, a UF associate pro-
fessor of educational technology, helped lead “iDig-
Fossils,” a project awarded almost $1.2 million by 
the National Science Foundation. The funding to 
give students scanners and printers started Monday.
The 3-year project will allow kindergarten 
through high-school students to develop skills and interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics courses.
Through 3-D technology, students in selected 
schools will scan and print fossils to keep at the school for them and future students to use. An-
tonenko said he hopes students use fossils to make 
hypotheses and inferences about the animals they came from.
The idea for the project started Fall 2014 when 
two employees of the Florida Museum of Natu-ral History walked through the museum halls and looked at a display of a shark’s jaw.
Claudia Grant, a UF education technology gradu-
ate student, said she suggested putting fossils in a 3-D format.
“I said, ‘It would be so cool to have this in a 3-D 
format and in a classroom,’” she said.
The scans of fossils, in addition to being kept at 
the schools, will be uploaded to a virtual database where anyone with a 3-D printer can download them, Antonenko said.
With the $1.2 million budget, Antonenko and his 
team will select 10 schools to each receive a $10,000 cart that includes a 3-D scanner, a 3-D printer and five laptops.
In addition, teachers who participate will each 
receive a stipend of $1,500 a year.
Antonenko said he is looking to increase the 
participation of the underrepresented groups in sci-ence, such as women and minorities.
For this reason, one school he chose is UF’s P.K. 
Yonge Developmental Research School.
He said he wants students to find an aspect of 
the curriculum that interests them and apply it in 
life. Without application, he said, students won’t 
retain the math and technology skills they learn in school.
“When you don’t use it, you lose it,” he said.iDigFossils receives $1.2 million
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
High school students applying 
for UF next year may need to sub-
mit scores from a new SAT.
Starting in March 2016, high 
school students will take a new version of the SAT that doesn’t pe-nalize for guessing and will make the writing portion optional. Stu-dents applying for admission to UF for Summer or Fall 2017 can sub-mit the old or new SAT, said An-drea Felder, the director of fresh-man and international admissions.
She said the College Board will 
provide UF with information on how scores from the two tests com-pare in May. They haven’t been told how the two will compare yet.
Superscoring, or combining 
scores from different sections of multiple SAT tests, will still exist, but not between the two versions of the tests, she said.
“Old will stay with old, new will 
stay with new,” Felder said.She said the new test will not af-
fect the admissions process.
“The biggest effect of the new 
SAT will be more so on the stu-dents,” she said. “Some students are being brave and taking it, and others are taking the ACT.”
Mackenzie O’Brien, a UF Eng-
lish sophomore, said she heard about the changes to the SAT while in high school.
“A lot of people in our senior 
class had to work really hard to do well on the SAT, and they thought it was unfair,” the 19-year-old said. “The SAT was really difficult when I took it, but college is also really difficult.”
She said she thought the test 
shouldn’t be an indicator for suc-cess in school.
“It’s such a weird test,” O’Brien 
said. “Maybe it’ll be better, but ev-eryone prepares differently for col-lege.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgUF admissions prepares 
for changes to SAT By Sydney Denninger
Alligator Contributing Writer
As of Sunday, South Florida has 
102 fewer pythons.
During the Florida Wildlife 
Commission’s second Python 
Challenge, participants removed Burmese pythons from in and around the Everglades.
On Feb. 27, the 2016 Python 
Challenge Awards Ceremony will run from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Long Key Nature Center in Davie, Florida, a city in Broward County.
Individuals and teams will re-
ceive awards for two categories: longest python and most pythons captured.
In 2013, the first-ever Python 
Challenge resulted in 68 captures. This year’s challenge started Jan. 16, and its goal was to remove the invasive species from Florida’s ecosystem.
The Florida Everglades are cur-
rently filled with Burmese pythons, hefty, non-venomous snakes that prey on native Florida species, ac-cording to the Python Challenge website.
Carol Lyn Parrish, the public 
information coordinator for FWC’s South Region, said Burmese py-thons are an invasive, non-native 
species that are legal to be re-
moved year-round.
“As far as the three-year gap be-
tween challenges, the challenge is 
just another effort to motivate oth-
ers to remove an invasive species,” 
Parrish said. “It helps the FWC 
spread our message.”
Before the competition, partici-
pants took a required online course or an optional live course, which both outlined how to trap and eu-thanize pythons.All participants paid an en-
trance fee, and the FWC scheduled 
guidelines for participating areas. 
Whether dead or alive, all py-
thons had to be dropped off at des-
ignated locations by 7 p.m. each day.
The challenge website offered 
three techniques to kill the python. If someone arrived with a live py-thon, the FWC euthanized it, said Parrish.
Kenneth Krysko, collection 
manager in the Division of Herpe-tology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, said the detection rate for Burmese pythons is 1 per-cent.
“For every 100 snakes you pass, 
you will probably see only one,” he said.
Krysko said high water levels 
allowed the pythons to move even quicker than usual, creating an ob-stacle for participants.
“The elusiveness of this species 
is incredible,” Parrish said.Python Challenge ended Sunday
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After she didn’t like her brownie, a Sanford, 
Florida, woman threatened officers with a dust mop 
handle.
At about 11:30 a.m. Sunday, Alltawanna Gilchrist, 
19, received the chocolate pastry during lunch at the Alachua County Jail, according to a police report.
However, Gilchrist was unhappy with the brown-
ie, so a detention officer took her lunch tray and walked to get her a new one, according to the report. 
When the officer left, Gilchrist stood on a table in 
the jail’s dayroom and grabbed a dust mop handle that had metal on the end, according to the report.
Gilchrist then swung the handle in the air and 
yelled threats at officers, according to the report.
As one officer walked back into the room, Gil-christ said, “Bring your a** in here, and I will have something for you,” according to the report.
Deputies with the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office arrested Gilchrist on two counts of aggra-
vated assault on a law enforce-
ment officer.
Gilchrist has an open case from 
when police said she threw an 
unknown liquid on a corrections officer at UF Health Shands Hos-
pital in October, according to Alachua County court records.
She remains in jail, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$20,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Inmate threatens officers
Gilchrist
CAMPUS102 pythons were capturedThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnOur Spring 2016 SG 
endorsement: ?
It is no secret that, historically, we at the Alligator typically 
endorse the minority party in Student Government elections. However, given the past year of what we feel has been incon-sistency, a distinct lack of transparency and ﬂ  agrant immatu-rity from both parties, we have decided to forego ﬁ  rmly endors-
ing either Impact Party or Access Party as a whole. Instead, we aim to promote a culture of uniﬁ  cation and accessibility, which we believe begins with the installment of online voting.
This campaign cycle has been deﬁ  ned by muckraking, per-
sonal attacks and upsettingly negative talking points from both parties. It seems, whether supposedly upholding The System or attempting to combat it, everyone is focusing on ﬁ  ghting one an-other rather than attending to the job at hand — leading and in-spiring the UF Student Body.
So instead of an endorsement, we have decided to focus on 
aspects of each platform we believe will not only advance the student experience at UF, but also enhance UF’s status as a won-derful, supportive, inclusive place to attend. It is our hope that at the end of the day, regardless of party afﬁ  liation, each person in SG truly has the best interests of the UF Student Body at heart.
On paper, the platforms of both parties succeed at addressing 
urgent needs faced by UF attendees. Graduate students are in dire need of fee relief. UF students also need mental health initiatives, 
and the services offered by the Counseling & Wellness Center re-
quire expanding. It is also essential that sexual assault prevention and education become top priorities. One would be hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd a UF student who feels otherwise, and it is no mistake that the aforementioned points are all critical to the platforms of both Access and Impact.
However, we don’t believe this alignment of values would 
have been possible had it not been for the emergence of Access, and thus, of discourse and debate in our Senate halls — we cer-
tainly can’t imagine the one-party (Swamp Party) system endors-
ing community outreach or advocating for a more inclusive cam-pus for students with varying backgrounds. As much as each party may resent it, the platforms of both parties are objectively good. While Impact focuses on tangible change, proven SG experience and attainable, more short-term goals, the Access candidates work as a cohesive team and envision a lasting change in both campus and SG cultures. What the Student Body will decide — and what therefore decides this election — is how well-intentioned and sin-
cere each party truly is about accomplishing its stated goals.
No matter how contentious things may get, SG elections 
should be about the Student Body at large. Although the nastiness 
seen throughout this election is the end result of a broken system and an institutionalized cutthroat culture, candidates ought to rise above and focus on what they can do to help their constituency, rather than lean on the wobbly crutches of opposition-bashing, past feuds and antiquated systems of appointments and advance-ments propagated by past administrations. No political party, 
much less a uniﬁ  ed Student Body, can exist and thrive based 
solely on hatred of another. It is one thing to know what you are against, but another thing entirely to know what you stand for. Today and Wednesday we will see students decide this for them-selves, but it will ultimately be those elected choosing between ﬁ  ghting for some Gators, or for the Gator Nation as a whole.
So, we urge you, the students who now hold all the power: 
Vote. Now, more than ever, your vote truly counts. Vote with your conscience, not your afﬁ  liation. Know your individual candi-
dates, not just party stereotypes. Vote for online voting so that oth-
ers, too, can have their voices heard in the future with ease. Be-cause ultimately, the most important working parts of our Student Government that we represent and endorse are not the parties or their leaders, but the students they are supposed to be ﬁ  ghting for.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Like so many other students, I spent the majority of last Friday worrying about impending admissions decisions and whether I’d be sharing a campus with my brother yet again. At 6 p.m. sharp, 
my family and I sat around our living room, eagerly watching him refresh the page over and over. Our phone started ringing, with a parent frantically asking questions about his or her child’s admission to UF’s Pathway to Campus Enrollment program, most of them derivatives of “What the hell is a PaCE pro-gram?” While my mom made an attempt at consolation, my brother finally triumphed over the UF server. 
He didn’t get in.He didn’t think he was going to get in. Honestly, I 
didn’t think he was going to get in either. Yet I had still managed to hold onto this naïve fantasy of us revel-ing in Gainesville together, if only for one measly year before my graduation. When he visited me, I tried my hardest (probably too hard) to sell him on the colle-giate culture, introducing him to my friends and drag-ging him to every local gem I knew.
I did all this in hope that the UF admissions board 
would look past his lackluster grades and see him as the kind, intelligent human that I know him to be. Un-fortunately, UF does not have the time nor the funds to delve this deeply into each applicant’s character.
Of course, social media was dominated by exuber-
ant declarations that younger siblings were joining the Gator Nation for the rest of the night, and I was natu-rally jealous. The flood of blue-and-orange clad baby pictures certainly didn’t help. But this wasn’t an excep-tional tragedy, because what happened to my brother 
happens to thousands of students every year.
When I was awaiting admission decisions in 2013, 
the Palm Beach Post ran an anxiety-inducing series 
of editorials following highly qualified students who weren’t accepted to UF and other state schools. They were IB and AP students with solid test scores and extracurricular involvement, puzzled over their denial despite doing everything “right.” Suddenly, I wasn’t so sure I’d get in either.
I’ve heard a variety of theories about 
this school’s admissions process, with some 
claiming it’s a complete lottery and others a 
numbers game. I’m sure the truth is some-where in between these two extremes, yet there does seem to be an element of random-ness to the whole thing. 
I’ve met plenty of people who claimed 
they “slipped through the cracks” and man-
aged to sneak their ways into this institution, but I maintain that everyone ends up here for a reason. Per-
haps I’m assigning too much power to the elusive ad-
missions board and fate in general, but I’ll stand by it.
Despite my brother’s notable absence from the UF 
class of 2020 (a phrase that makes me feel undeniably ancient), I’m looking forward to the next wave of pep-py, bright-eyed freshmen. 
It goes without saying that most of those accepted 
will end up here come Fall, and I can only imagine the ambitions they’ll bring with them.
As far as my brother’s prospects are concerned, I’ll 
eventually get over my dreams of a Papenfuss dynasty at UF. In reality, it’s probably for the best that he at-tends another school and forges his own path. After 18 years of having to introduce himself as “Marisa’s brother” to teachers and authority figures alike, I’m sure he’s sick of the classic older sibling shadow. All I know is wherever he goes, he’s going to thrive.
For anyone else disappointed with Friday’s results, 
I’ll leave you with my father’s cliched yet well-inten-tioned words of wisdom: “You’ve got to just embrace the randomness of life.” There’s definitely some truth to this philosophical dad-ism, and I’m realizing it more and more every day.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her col-
umn appears on Tuesdays.UF admissions decisions: it’s a family affair
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgLast year was different.
I’ve come to terms with 
the realization nothing 
will live up to that hand-
ful of weeks in February, 
which grew more and more frantic by the day. Back then, I 
knew — anyone who paid atten-
tion did — that the Spring 2015 Student Government elections were unprecedented. 
Firstly, a new party formed and gained 
strength, supporters and attention. Our joy (or entitled, bewildered anger) grew day by day. Seventeen senators aban-doned the majority party in the middle 
of Senate session; student organizations 
of ethnic and sexual minorities, hitherto exploited with a sick game of “either sup-port us or get no representation whatso-ever, and forget about funding” finally 
broke out of the long-held trap.
In previous years, every sidewalk on 
campus was lined with uniformed Swamp 
Party goons with plastic smiles urging 
passers-by to vote, as if our votes were 
anything other than cheap rubber stamps on their own authority. 
Last year’s rebellion promised to put an 
end to this situation, and for a short time, 
it did. I will never forget the night Access 
Party won that hard-fought campaign. It was like the end of a bad teen comedy from the ‘80s, with sulking Swamp sup-
porters bearing a striking resemblance to 
the villains in such films. I look back on that night as the high-water mark of our time here.
Since that night, Access has underper-
formed in the Senate. This underperfor-mance was due almost wholly to "grid-lock," aka the democratic process. As we all know, democracy requires compro-
mise: In a two-party system where both 
parties disagree completely on a large number of issues (I’m talking about the U.S. government), compromise is often difficult to achieve. 
We’re familiar with this. I believe what 
happened here was not only the result of an admittedly frustrating democratic pro-cess, but a deliberate tactic by Swamp to 
stall the Senate at every opportunity.
Partisan gridlock set The System’s next 
stage for the Fall quite well. First, they 
discarded the husk of Swamp (the entire party declined to run). In its place rose 
Impact Party, a First Order among SG par-
ties, staffed at the top with Swamp loyal-ists and just enough defectors from Access to make the party appear legitimate. 
Impact situated itself as 
a third way between Swamp (which, coincidentally, slated no candidates in that election) 
and Access, promising to over-
come division and bring “unity” to UF once again.   
But UF wasn’t ready for democracy. I guess we found ourselves sour after 
we were stirred from sweet dreams of unity, where the inconvenient burden of decision-making was carried out only by those who had pledged their souls to a 
paternalistic and self-serving political ap-
paratus. 
We certainly had no democratic tradi-
tion. When Impact ran on a platform of 
“Golly, democracy is hard!” we ate that 
shit up and lined up to vote for the same people we gleefully ousted in the Spring.
Perhaps the surprise viral sensation 
that is #NotMySystem will have enough 
of an effect on voter turnout to swing the 
election. 
It’s frustrating that it took this long for 
people to take this open secret seriously 
— they’ve never done a great job of hid-
ing it. 
If a dramatic Facebook video is what 
it takes to raise awareness of the System, 
though, who am I to complain?
All that said, The System’s counter-
revolution isn’t finished. If Impact’s can-
didates win the executive seats, then last 
year’s rebellion will have been rooted out 
and destroyed within a year. Luckily, that story hasn’t been written yet. 
We, UF’s masses, still have a chance. If 
we’re ever going to seize power from the elite, the corrupt and the cynical, there has never been a better time to do so. 
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His 
column usually appears on Fridays.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I’ve deliberately abstained 
from writing about the 2016 election. In both the Alliga-
tor and elsewhere, we are 
so constantly bombarded 
with election coverage and “hot takes” that I think the last thing 
the world needs is another col-
lege kid’s narrow perspective. However, I feel the need to de-scribe my experience last Friday at the University of South Florida Sun Dome.
I went to a Donald Trump rally, and it 
left me feeling both disappointed and con-fused. Thousands, including myself, were not actually able to enter the rally because 
of unplanned overcrowding at the Sun 
Dome. Instead, what left me so dismayed was my experience with the protests out-side the rally.
Conviction — unwavering, unyielding 
and whole-hearted conviction — charac-terized the atmosphere of the evening and the views of Trump’s supporters. 
No one came to expand personal views 
or engage in civil discourse. Instead, amidst the protests and close confronta-tions, Trump’s supporters shouted argu-ments rooted purely in emotion and pre-sumption.
On immigration, a woman vehemently 
argued against the presence of illegal im-migrants because, as she claimed, two il-legal immigrants kidnapped someone from 
her family. On the size of government, 
another Trump supporter argued, “It’s not the government’s job to wipe my ass. The more the government’s out of my life, the better. I would prosper.”
This is where my disappointment be-
gins: There is a remarkable degree of cog-nitive dissonance within these outraged supporters between their perception of 
a Trump presidency and the reality of 
Trump’s platform. For example, only a tre-mendous — or, if I may, “yuge” — amount of government oversight and involvement could facilitate the mass deportation of 11 
million residents, the increased surveil-
lance of all Muslim Americans and the roughly $8 billion, 1300-mile-long wall.
Not to mention a few particularly ﬁ  red-
up supporters who shouted, “America! USA! USA!” as if Trump is the “American” way, while all those opposed — those “lib-erals” — are unpatriotic or un-American.
For the majority of these supporters 
— and, I’ll admit, for some protestors as well — “winning” arguments and feeling right and triumphant is inﬁ  nitely more important than actually being right.
Demonize the other side, vin-
dicate your own message as ir-refutably true and disregard or manipulate the facts when they don’t work in your favor: This is 
the name of the political game. 
While this process is not by any 
means uniquely Republican (see Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., and 
the Democratic National Committee), it is 
vividly portrayed and widely accepted at Trump’s rallies.
Last Friday also left me confused. Be-
fore arriving at the protest, I had a lovely 
conversation with a middle-aged couple 
from Orlando, both avid Trump support-ers. We spoke of nothing political and sim-ply chatted about our hometowns, Friday’s 
highway trafﬁ  c, our families and the like.
Small talk as it was, I think such inter-
actions hold profound implications. Strip 
away the mob mentality and political bi-ases, and we’re all just people waiting in a 
line. Civility is not entirely absent in all of 
Trump’s supporters.
But then this left me even more con-
fused, for I utterly fail to understand why 
scores of low- and middle-class Ameri-
cans, such as this couple and many sup-porters at the rally, would support Trump so adamantly based on little more than the vitality and gratiﬁ  cation Trump’s rhetoric 
ensures.
Perhaps it’s upbringing? Perhaps we 
choose our afﬁ  liations based on our life’s 
experiences and our imagination of the po-
litical reality, while outside inﬂ  uences and 
calls to arms — such as Trump’s dema-goguery — facilitate such stark allegianc-es, ignorance merely exacerbating the pro-cess? I don’t know; I’m just a 20-year-old 
trying to understand all this.
In the end, what revitalized me was 
witnessing the nearby Perkins attended by 
both Trump supporters and non-Trumpers 
alike after the rally. By no means were 
they holding hands and singing kumbaya, but they nonetheless sought out the same midnight munchies.
If there’s one thing that transcends the 
stark divisions of our nation’s political theater, it’s pancakes. Perhaps all hope is not lost after all.
David Hoffman is a UF history and 
physics sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.Post-mortem, post-Trump rally musingsColumnLetter to the Editor
Take a step back and appreciate what we have
To my fellow students:
For those who are unaware, the exterior 
of the Flint auditorium was vandalized pretty 
extensively with spray paint this past week-end. The messages were directed at nobody in 
particular, but they were aimed at disparaging 
chemistry, in particular, organic chemistry.  
As a chemistry major with immense re-
spect for my department and all of its faculty, I am obviously directly offended by this. In 
general, an act like this shows complete disre-
gard for people who help make this university what it is and also for the facilities that we use.
I have been reﬂ  ecting on this, and I real-ized that this brings up an opportunity to con-vey an important message. As students, we are all busy trying to get our homework done, 
meet all of our deadlines, prepare for our ex-
ams and do all of this well enough to make the cut for the graduate programs or the job markets that are the next step. 
Really though, despite all of this immedi-
ate stress, we must realize that we are among the luckiest individuals on the planet. Educa-tion is one of the biggest privileges on the face of the Earth. 
We get to grow up, decide what we want 
to study here and choose a career path that will provide us with stability and even intel-lectual fulﬁ  llment. This is our reality.  
On this same planet, there are humans who are born into poverty, political instability and war who don’t have access to adequate amounts of food and clean water. There are 
people who go to sleep at night hoping that 
bombs won’t detonate and destroy their homes. There are parents who would give their lives for their children to be able to study 
here and decide what they want to be when 
they grow up.
So to the people who committed this act 
of vandalism:
I would love for you to have to sit in a 
room, look one of these people in the eyes, and convey to them exactly what you did — how this organic chemistry course that you have the privilege of taking as a part of your 
UF  education just inconvenienced you so much with its workload that you went and 
defaced a university building. To me, this act shows that you not only have no respect for 
our university but also that you have put no 
thought whatsoever into the condition of the world.
I am quite fond of the Student Body here. 
In fact, it includes some of my closest friends in life. I am conﬁ  dent that we won’t let this small group of individuals serve as any sort of reﬂ  ection of who we are and what we stand for. Let us use this event as a reminder to take 
a step back and appreciate what we have. We 
owe it to the world.
Jamie Luskin 
UF Organic Chemistry 2 TA
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.org
“Impact situated itself 
as a third way between 
Swamp and Access, 
promising to overcome 
division and bring 
'unity' to UF once again.”Only YOU can prevent oligarchyColumn
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgBy Kacy Turenne
Alligator Contributing Writer
The UF all-girl competitive cheerleading club shared 
nervous glances and sighs of relief Sunday night.  
The team of 20 hugged and cheered when a voice an-
nounced their national victory in their College 4 division 
at Cheersport Nationals in Atlanta.
Their win came after hours of practice each week, 
and it brought the team one step closer to winning the 
National Cheerleading Association’s Collegiate National 
Championship.
The championship will be held April 6 in Daytona 
Beach.
Kaitlyn Mamak, a 21-year-old UF health science junior 
and third-year team member, said the team won by two points.“When we found out we won, it was such a great reas-
surance that we have the talent we need to actually win Nationals,” said Mamak.
During Sunday’s event, the women competed against 
nine other universities, including rival school Florida 
State University.
Glitter-filled sweat ran down the Gator Logo on the face 
of each woman from Saturday to Sunday. Five months of 
preparation came into play in exactly two minutes and 30 seconds.
“We really wanted to get out there and perform in front of a huge crowd, against other well-known college pro-grams before NCA, and this was the perfect place to do it,” said Liza Herth, a 22-year-old UF marketing senior 
and the squad’s president.
After learning the routine in October, the team received 
a bid to the National Cheerleaders Association Nationals 
and trained every week.
In 2014, the team won fifth place, and in 2015, it 
brought home a third place trophy.
Now, in the midst of the last competition, the UF All 
Girl Cheerleading club is adding more practices and refin-ing its strategy.
“We had to water our routine down for Cheersport,” 
said Xiomara Leonard, a 20-year-old UF applied physiol-ogy and kinesiology junior and the squad’s vice president, “but we are so excited for our nationals routine and can’t 
wait to represent the Gator Nation.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
By Kayla Solem
Alligator Contributing Writer
Marylyn Resendiz tried on a beige hijab 
for the first time Monday.
Resendiz, a UF microbiology and cell sci-
ence freshman, tried on a hijab as part of Is-lam on Campus’ Islam Appreciation Month. 
A hijab is a headscarf that some Muslim 
women choose to wear, said Maria Ilyas, the 
chair of the appreciation month.
She said the headscarves are used to as-
sociate women with being Muslim.
“You get used to it,” Resendiz said. “You don’t feel weird anymore, and you just go on with your day.”
The 18-year-old said she walked on Tur-
lington Plaza early Monday morning to get the hijab put on. When she walked through later, no one approached her about it. She said she would have just carried on with her day if people had said anything.
“In some aspects, some people may look 
at me different, but I brush it off because that shouldn’t be important to them,” Resendiz said.
Ilyas, a UF microbiology and cell science 
junior, said she wears her hijab every day and lent some of her own to students who wanted to wear it all day.
“It will give you kind of an insider’s per-
spective so next time you see a girl in a hijab, you’ll feel more connected,” the 20-year-old said.UF students try on hijabs for Islam Appreciation Month
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Suzy Ismail, an author and visiting professor of communication at DeVry Univer-sity, speaks to an audience in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom about the signifi-cance of the hijab in Islamic tradition Monday evening. 
THE ANNIVERSARY WILL BE 
COMMEMORATED FEB. 21.
By Eugenia Blaubach
Alligator Contributing Writer
Evergreen Cemetery’s first headstone 
still sits on the 53 acres of historical land.
Elizabeth Jane Thomas, a 10-day-old 
baby, was laid to rest under the withered 
stone in February 1856.
On Feb. 21, the cemetery will celebrate 
the 160th anniversary of its first burial.
“It’ll be Sunday after church, so it should be good,” said Gary Smith, the cem-etery coordinator.
Starting at 2 p.m., the cemetery, situ-
ated at 401 SE 21st Ave., will host history 
talks, walking tours and musical perfor-
mances.  
Burton Brown, the president of the Ev-
ergreen Cemetery Association, said the event will promote the Babyland Renewal 
Initiative and celebrate what he called a 
cultural landmark.
The cemetery is the burial site for sev-
eral prominent figures in Florida’s history, 
including Maj. James B. Bailey, a major proponent of moving the Alachua County 
seat to Gainesville in the mid-19th centu-ry, and Robert Cade, who led the research team that invented Gatorade.
The renewal project is meant improve 
an area of the cemetery called Babyland, where infants who died between 1939 and 1960 are buried, according to a cemetery brochure.  
Rows of concrete cylinders stick out 
from the ground, marking the final resting place of more than 200 babies.
Most of the graves remain unmarked.
“It was not uncommon not to mark an infant,” he said. “It was just an additional 
expense working families didn’t under-take.”
The main goal of the project is to dig 
out the 2-foot-tall cylinders by hand and replace them with individualized markers, which cost about $50 each, Smith said.
Both Smith and Brown said they also 
hope to unveil a granite monument that 
signifies all of Babyland.
In the meantime, Brown said he is look-
ing forward to Sunday’s event.
“The cemetery is us,” he said. “It’s our 
community. It’s our people.”Evergreen Cemetery to celebrate 160 years of historyUF All Girl Cheerleading takes division championship in AtlantaIsabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Mehreen Mahmood, a 21-year-old UF anthropology senior, puts a hijab on Samon 
Imtiaz, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore, on Turlington Plaza on Monday dur-ing Hijab Day.A hijab is a headscarf
CAMPUS
“When we found out we won, it was such a great 
reassurance that we have the talent we need to actually 
win Nationals.”
Kaitlyn Mamak
club memberBy Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
Flying through the air and 
serving drinks is only part of Co-
rey Souza’s job.
Souza is an aerial performer 
and owner of S-Connection Aer-ial Arts, and she recently started working with Market Street Pub & 
Cabaret to host an aerial bartend-
ing show. 
Electro Aerial is coming to 
112 SW First Ave. from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m Feb. 26, when artists will swing over guests’ heads and serve them drinks.
Individual performances usu-
ally last up to ﬁ  ve minutes dur-ing aerial shows, Souza said, but each performer will entertain guests for 15 minutes during Elec-
tro Aerial.
Since the show began last 
year, there have been three per-
formances. Souza said she and 
her students will perform the 
show six times — once every oth-er month — in 2016.
“Aerial arts is a way to show a sense of limitlessness that you don’t normally get to see,” she 
said. “These artists are showing 
you something that seems impos-sible.”
The cover charge will be $5, 
and Souza recommended bring-
ing a tip for the performers.
Luke Lemos, a UF electrical 
engineering sophomore, said he 
is turning 21 this year and is look-
ing forward to the show.
“It’s so unique,” he said. “I 
can’t say I’ve ever done this be-
fore. I’ll deﬁ  nitely be going, but I’ll have to be careful. It sounds 
like an easy way to go broke.”TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Alligator File Photo/Kali Kavouklis
Kelly Ulmer pours wine upside down at Market Street Pub & Cabaret during an Electro Aerial show on 
Dec. 5, 2015. Attendees paid to have the members of AscenDance pour beer and wine for them while hanging upside down from lyra aerial hoops, steel hoops hung by one or two ropes.
Aerial performers to serve drinks
HE ALSO TOOK HIS 
FATHER’S CELLPHONE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man with “laugh now” and “cry 
later” tattooed on his biceps was arrested Sunday 
after police said he pushed his father around.
At about 9 p.m., Matthew Edward Coulter, 30, 
was in an argument with his 70-year-old father when the argument turned violent, according to a 
police report.
His father later told police Coulter pushed him 
multiple times, according to the report.
As his father reached for a house phone to call 
police, Coulter grabbed it from his hands, according 
to the report.
When he then tried to use a cellphone, Coulter 
grabbed it once again, according to the report.“I’ll take your cellphone, too,” he said, according 
to the report.
Coulter’s father suffered bruising on his right 
arm and swelling on the top of his left hand, according to the report.
Coulter told police he took the 
phone but did not know his father 
was trying to call police, according to the report.
He told police he took the 
phone because he simply wanted to use it, according to the report.
Coulter was arrested and 
charged with battery on a person 65 years or older 
and obstructing justice.
Authorities took Coulter to the Alachua County 
Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a 
$10,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: man shoves, bruises fatherCRIME
Preparing For 
Graduation
February 26,  2016
Deadline to purchase regalia
 Doctoral candidates receive blue gowns
 All other candidates receive black gowns
 T o receive cap and gown, students must 
provide height, weight and gender
 While the deadline to apply for graduation   passed Jan. 29, students can appeal to their College Dean’s Ofﬁ  ce for graduation until the last day of class.
 April 8: Deadline to notify Disability Resource Center of any accommodations needed for graduating students and their families
 April 19 until graduation: Students can pick up their regalia with their Gator 1 Cards
 April 28 - May 1: Commencement
Regalia Cost Breakdown:
Cap and gown rental: $48.76
Cum laude honor cord: $14.88
Magna cum laude honor cord: $29.75
Summa cum laude honor cord: $44.63
The show costs $5, plus tip
Coulter
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Condo 1BR/1BA – 705 SQ.FT.Bike to UF or ride the bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018    2-18-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99995 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
HEALTHCARE is "Out of Control".
Be part of the solution. $50 off until Mar 30.  Pomo code "2016":  www.rxcut.biz/RXN00173    2-16-4-20Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Designated drivers are the greatest
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
21 Entertainment 15 Services 23 Rides 25 Lost & Found 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida soccer brought in a 
12-player recruiting class.Read the story on pg. 16.By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Florida is searching for answers on of-
fense.
Four of its remaining six regular-sea-
son games will be played away from the 
O’Connell Center, beginning tonight in 
Georgia. 
Improving the offense has been a sea-
son-long task for coach Mike White and 
the Gators, and now the ﬁ  xes will have to 
be made on the road.
Florida (16-9, 7-5 Southeastern Con-
ference) faces Georgia tonight at 9 in the 
Stegeman Coliseum in Athens. 
The Bulldogs (14-9, 7-5 SEC) have been 
on a roll, winning three of their last four games and ﬁ  ve of their last seven confer-ence games. 
Georgia and Florida are part of the four-
way tie for fourth place in the SEC stand-ings, along with Texas A&M and Vander-
bilt.
But perhaps the most daunting statistic 
facing the Gators tonight is the Bulldogs’ 
12-3 home record. 
UF is 2-6 in true road games this season 
and 1-4 in SEC road games, as if its shoot-ing woes weren’t enough to overcome.
“In this league, you have to go into sur-
vival mode and really hope you can play well enough to have a chance,” White said on Monday. 
“That’s my biggest concern right now. 
Not the league standings, not our RPI 
numbers. It’s how the heck do we score 
at Georgia?” 
In Saturday’s home loss to Alabama, 
the Gators shot a season-low 28.6 percent from the ﬁ  eld (18-of-63) and just 14.3 per-cent from three-point range (3-of-21). 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida women's basketball drops in AP Poll
The Florida women's basketball team dropped from No. 16 to No. 22 in The 
Associated Press Poll released on Monday.UF looking to improve struggling oﬀ  enseGYMNASTICS
separates the best from the rest. 
Top-to-bottom quality can be difﬁ  cult to 
come by, especially in a collegiate sporting 
world governed by recruiting rules and eligibil-ity regulations. 
Tell that to Florida’s gymnastics team. Extending their record against top-10 op-
position to 4-0 on the year, the No. 2 Gators defeated then-No. 9 Arkansas on Friday by a score of 197.450-195.975 on a night where UF was not at its strongest.
“We intended to rest some of our athletes 
on the leg events, which are vault and ﬂ  oor,” coach Jenny Rowland said. 
“Gymnastics is a really long season, and 
competing all four events every week, day-in and day-out, it’s taxing on the body. … It gave the opportunity for some of our freshmen to step up and ﬁ  ll those roles.”
In an effort to preserve her athletes for later 
in the season, Rowland removed All-America duo Bridget Sloan and Kennedy Baker from the vault and ﬂ  oor lineups, respectively, electing 
to ﬁ  eld a single all-arounder in freshman Alicia 
Boren.
The ﬁ  rst-year gymnast did not disappoint.Contributing to Florida’s 1.475-point victory 
— the team’s second-largest of the season — Boren clinched the ﬁ  rst all-around title of her career, equalling her collegiate-bests on both the vault and ﬂ  oor. 
One of only two freshmen in the national 
all-around top 20, Boren’s receptiveness to learning has been just one factor that has al-lowed her to play a leading role in the No. 2 Gators’ continued success. 
“I think Alicia has embraced her role and 
has just run with it,” Rowland said.UF freshman 
shines as 
teammates rest
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Every team has its stars, but depth is what 
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Teaching moments are a bit-
tersweet commodity in sports.
On Saturday, the No. 10 Flor-
ida lacrosse team experienced 
its first significant teaching mo-ment of the 2016 season. Although Florida defeated 
Michigan 12-11, the Gators have outscored the Wolverines 41-4 in the only previous matchups between the two schools.
After Mollie Stevens scored a 
goal to kick off the second half to extend UF’s lead to 8-5, the Wolverines scored six consecu-tive goals to put themselves up 11-8 heading into the game’s fi-nal 10 minutes. 
Sophomore attacker Shayna 
Pirreca, who started Saturday's game on the sidelines, single handedly drove Florida into the win column. 
She scored three straight goals to knot the match at 11, and assisted on junior attacker Sammi Burgess’ game-winning goal with 10 seconds remaining on the clock.
Coach Amanda O’Leary said 
the team has a lot to learn from the win.
She said it starts with being 
more mentally prepared from the time her players are in the locker room before the match begins.“We can’t just kind of get out 
there and just think it’s going to click,” O’Leary said. 
“We need to prepare through-
out the week how we are going to play on Saturday.”
However, Pirreca's play on 
Saturday served as evidence that she isn’t hesitant to step up when her team needs a scoring boost. 
“When it came down to it, 
No. 10 Florida lacrosse humbled by near-loss to Michigan
The Gators beat the Wolverines 12-11
SEE LAX,  PAGE 14SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE GYM,  PAGE 14“That’s my biggest concern right now. 
Not the league standings, not our RPI 
numbers. It’s how the heck do we score at 
Georgia?” 
Mike White
UF men's basketball coach
Florida's Chris Chiozza shoots the ball during UF's 61-55 loss to Alabama on Feb. 13 in the O'Connell Center.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff(Pirreca) said ‘give me the ball’ 
and away she went," O'Leary said.
Pirreca, who tied career highs 
in goals (four) and assists (two) against the Wolverines, now leads Florida with 10 points on the season. 
The final box score from Sat-
urday’s win reassured O’Leary that the scoring void left by the recently graduated Shannon Gil-roy will be filled this season.
Even with Pirreca scoring one-third of the team’s goals, two other UF players — Ste-vens and Burgess — finished the match with three goals apiece.
And thus far in the young sea-
son, the Gators feature six play-ers who have scored on multiple occasions, with Stevens and Pir-reca scoring just over half of the team’s goals. 
“Obviously, it’s a lot harder 
to stop seven players than it is to stop one or two,” O’Leary said.
Despite losing the draw con-
trols battle 16-9 to Michigan, the Gators were able to refocus on the draw when it mattered most. 
Leading up to the winning 
goal, Florida won three consec-utive draws, with all three pos-sessions ending in goals.
O’Leary cited the game’s final 
draws as an indication of her team’s drive to win close games.
“They wanted this game, and 
they weren’t going to lose it,” O’Leary said.  
“I think that was a huge tell-
tale sign of what this team has and can do.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.org“Alicia has watched, she’s listened. She’s 
learned in the gym, she’s learned out of the 
gym, and really, I think most importantly, Ali-
cia has learned to have fun out on the competi-
tion ﬂ  oor. … (I’m) looking forward to see how she ends up this season.”
Boren, however, isn’t the only Florida gym-
nast providing depth to the roster. 
Senior Bridgette Caquatto, a four-year let-
terwoman with an elite pedigree of her own, slotted a season-high 9.925 on the uneven bars on Friday, while freshman Ashley Hiller post-
ed career-highs of 9.700 and 9.775 on both the 
vault and ﬂ  oor in her O’Connell Center debut. 
This year’s squad possesses both the talent 
needed to make yet another championship run and the chemistry required to turn that goal into a reality.
“I have to say, it’s one of the closest teams 
that I have ever worked with, and I think that goes to show out on the competition ﬂ  oor,” 
Rowland said.
“They’re all having a good time, they’re all 
supporting each other and looking forward to 
moving on and continuing a strong season.”  
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
GYM,  from pg 13Boren clinched the irst all-around title of her career on Friday
LAX,  from pg 13UF won three-straight draws to end the game
Florida will need to improve 
its offense while dealing with a strong Georgia defense on the road.
The Gators’ defense will also 
have to deal with four Bulldogs who average double ﬁ  gures in scoring. 
White and guard Chris Chi-
ozza both said neutralizing Geor-gia’s guards — J.J. Frazier (15.4 points per game), Kenny Gaines (12.5) and Charles Mann (11.0) — will be a huge key on Tues-
day. 
Additionally, forward Yante 
Maten leads the team in scoring 
and rebounding with 16 points and eight boards per game.
“Their guards are explo-
sive scorers. The offense really starts with the guards,” Chiozza said. “They’ve got three veteran 
guards in Mann, Frazier and 
Gaines. They get the offense go-ing, so it’s going to be a huge key for us defensively.”
Meanwhile, Florida’s guards 
have been the opposite of explo-sive.
 Over the last four games in 
which the Gators have gone 2-2, 
Chiozza, Kasey Hill and KeV-
aughn Allen have combined to shoot 31.6 percent from the ﬁ  eld (31-of-98) and 20 percent from three-point range (9-of-45) while committing 17 turnovers.
Chiozza knows the play of 
Florida’s guards has been sub-par, and he said the unit will 
need to improve as the season 
winds down to give the Gators a chance to win games.
“Our guard play has been aw-ful the last few games, and espe-cially with this road trip coming up, it’s going to be huge for us to be leaders on the court,” Chiozza said. 
“I’ve been trying to ﬁ  gure that 
out. I think it’s mental and just, I wouldn’t say a loss of focus, but just tired mentally. 
That’s not an excuse, though. 
I’ve just been playing uncharac-teristically of myself lately.”
For Florida to steal a win in 
Athens tonight and earn just its 
third road win of the season, 
the Gators cannot afford mental lapses. 
The Bulldogs are ﬁ  ghting for 
a postseason berth just as much as Florida is at this point, and the Gators will be facing yet an-other tough atmosphere away from home — all while coming 
off their worst shooting perfor-
mance of the year.
“I don’t foresee us going to 
Georgia and scoring 80 points. I just don’t,” White said. 
“Defensively, if we’re not on 
it and you’ve got three very tal-ented veteran guards that are all capable of getting 20 apiece, if 
they do that we’re in trouble. We 
probably have no chance.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13The Gators shot a season-
low 28.6 percent Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Shayna Pirreca passes the ball during Florida's 12-11 win over Michigan on Feb. 13 at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium.“Our guard play has been 
awful the last few games, 
and especially with this road 
trip coming up, it’s going to 
be huge for us to be leaders 
on the court.”
Chris Chiozza
UF guard
Alicia Boren poses after completing her beam routine during Florida's win over Arkansas on Feb. 12 in the O'Connell Center.
Emma Green / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
THE SEC CHAMPIONSHIP 
MEET STARTS TODAY AND 
FINISHES ON SATURDAY.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
After nearly five months of regular-
season competition, the Gators finally 
begin their championship quest. 
Today marks the first day of the five-
day Southeastern Conference Champion-
ships in Columbia, Missouri, for the No. 
5 men’s team and the No. 9 women’s team.
“It’s by far the deepest (competi-
tion),” UF coach Gregg Troy said. 
“The top is as every bit as good, if 
not better, than every time before and it extends much deeper. It’s a highly com-petitive meet.”
The Florida women’s team is consid-
ered one of the favorites to overthrow defending champion Georgia. 
While the Gators suffered a 169-129 
defeat to the No. 1 Bulldogs back on Oct. 30, they finished their season with a 4-1 conference record, including three-straight conference victories. 
Senior diver Kahlia Warner will have 
a chance to get the women’s team off to a good start in day one’s diving competi-tions. Warner has shown improvement this 
season, capturing 15 total victories — four more than last season. 
Her performances on the boards will 
be vital if the women’s team hopes to capture its first conference champion-ship since 2009.
Meanwhile, the men’s team will look 
to capture its fourth-straight SEC title under Troy. 
While the team enters the conference 
meet as the three-time reigning champi-ons and is currently ranked in the top five nationally, the Gators have had mixed results this season, unlike last year. 
Heading into the conference meet last 
season, the men’s team was 4-1 against SEC teams during the regular season. 
This season, the men’s team went 2-2 
against SEC opponents. 
The losses were to No. 3 Georgia and 
No. 6 Auburn, the two biggest threats to end Florida’s championship streak. 
However, the Gators have two new 
pieces that may help them retain their conference championship for a fourth season. 
Jan Switkowski, who transferred from 
Virginia Tech, is fourth on the team in total victories. 
The sophomore is also one of only 
three swimmers on the men’s roster who has at least nine victories in both indi-
vidual and relay events. 
While Switkowski admits that win-
ning close races has been the team’s big-
gest flaw this season, he feels it is an obstacle the team can overcome.
“I think if we can clean up those 
things,” Switkowski said, “we can win the (SEC).”
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org         UF swimming and diving hoping to collect conference crown
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Teams that have long breaks 
in between games usually come out rusty.For the No. 3 Florida women’s 
tennis team, rust is the last thing the team needs, especially when No. 1 California and No. 14 Stan-
ford loom in the distance. 
The Gators will play both 
teams on Feb. 26 and Feb. 28, re-spectively.
But Florida coach Roland 
Thornqvist believes his team will 
be ready.
“There’s no real science be-
hind (avoiding rust), you know?” Thornqvist said. “Each team ev-ery year is a little different. This team has worked really hard up until this point.”
In ﬁ  ve matches so far this sea-
son, the Gators have only dropped six sets.
In addition, the Gators de-feated then-No. 4 Southern Cali-fornia, then-No. 20 Clemson and then-No. 29 Baylor. 
The Gators have also gone 
up against the then-No. 4 duo of USC’s Giuliana Olmos and Gabby Smith, and Clemson’s No. 11 Joa-na Eidukonyte. 
When it comes to rust, UF isn’t 
worried. Multiple times this sea-son, the Gators have proven that they can compete with the top teams in the nation.
“We’ve had to change tac-
tics and be able to analyze some things in the middle of the ﬂ  ow of the game. And we have made good adjustments. Plus we seem to be able to control our nerves at the end of sets, too,” Thornqvist said.
“We’ve certainly had some 
challenges in singles and some sets where we’ve had to make adjustments and we’re going to need to be able to do that.” 
California and Stanford aren’t 
the only opponents on Thorn-qvist’s mind, though.
To the coach, every game is 
building toward May. Thornqvist 
wants to see improvement from 
his players every match so that by the time the NCAA Team Tourna-ment comes around, the Gators will be ready to make a deep run.
“It’s such a long season, and 
we need to make sure we’re at our best in April and May,” Thornqvist said. 
“You can’t just train for this 
coming weekend, you got to think big picture.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgGators looking to continue dominant play after long layoﬀ  Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kahlia Warner dives during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell 
Center. 
Coach Roland Thornqvist looks on as his team competes in singles during its win against South Florida on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2016
THE GATORS LOST THREE 
PLAYERS TO GRADUATION.
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh is continu-
ing to reload.
After signing 15 players a season ago, Bur-
leigh announced a 12-person recruiting class 
for next season.
“We do have a big class coming in. It’s a 
really exciting class,” said Burleigh, who is heading into her 22nd season as Florida soc-cer’s head coach. “There’s just a variety of different holes that we feel like we ﬁ  lled in our roster.”
The main vacancy Burleigh will look to ﬁ  ll 
is at center back, where the Gators lost se-niors Christen Westphal and Claire Falknor to 
graduation.
The duo combined to start 164 games 
over their four-year careers. Both earned All-
America honors last season and are continu-ing their soccer careers professionally, West-phal with the Boston Breakers of the National Women’s Soccer League after being drafted third overall back in January and Falknor as a member of FC Bayern Munich in Germany.
“We don’t expect anyone on our current 
team or anyone coming in to be exactly like them because that would be unrealistic,” Bur-leigh said. “But I do think it also presents us an opportunity to be a little bit different.”
The Gators signed a pair of freshmen de-
fenders in Lauren Kelly and Jocelyn Nelson who, along with eight returning backline players, will vie for starting time next season. 
Florida also added a pair of forwards, seven 
midﬁ  elders and a goalkeeper to round out its class.
Kelly, a Virginia native, won four consecu-
tive Elite Clubs National League Mid-Atlantic championships with her club team, FC Vir-ginia.
Nelson, a left-footed defender and one of 
two early enrollees in the class, has spent ﬁ  ve years with the Oklahoma Olympic Develop-ment Team and spent time playing with a development team in Holland coached by UF assistant Alan Kirkup.“It’s been fun watching (Nelson) as we’ve 
gone through this training because she’s a little bit of a perfectionist and we’re trying to get her to realize that it’s OK to make mis-takes and that it’s OK to grow through those mistakes,” Burleigh said. “She’s really come a long way even from the beginning of when she got here in January.”
The Gators ﬁ  nished last season with a 19-
4-1 record and swept the Southeastern Con-ference regular-season and tournament titles.
@J_McPherson1126
Jmcpherson@alligator.org
Florida soccer brings in 12-player recruiting class
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF soccer coach Becky Burleigh puts her arm around defender Rachelle Smith (81) following Florida’s 3-2 win against Florida 
State on Aug. 30, 2015, at James G. Pressly Stadium.
