We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 125 THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
Luke Del Rio looking to become 
Florida’s starting quarterback
He was ineligible last season, pg#
Students sign messages to promote positive body image
The event was hosted by Her Campus and She’s The First, pg. 5
Gator swimming opens NCAA meet
They opened in third place, pg. 16Check out the Avenue
Hippodrome showing ‘Sound of Music,’ 
art exhibit, mediocre advice and of Montreal coming to Gainesville, pgs. 7-10
Alexandra Booth / Alligator
COLORFUL CONSTRUCTION
Construction workers fix window treatments on the new building of UF Health Shands Hospital 
on Wednesday. The children’s hospital, across Archer Road, is reflected in the windows.
A FORMER UF ATHLETE 
FINDS STRENGTH 
AFTER INJURY.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Lauren Brasure has a prayer 
chain hanging in her room.
The long, colorful paper chain 
of Bible verses and prayers from 
UF’s athletic community reminds her of the outpouring support she received after being hit by a car 
Dec. 9.She then underwent surgery 
for a blood clot at UF Health 
Shands Hospital. Now she’s re-covering in Rockford, Michigan, surrounded by family.
Brasure, a former UF athlete, 
initially struggled to understand her situation, but she’s hoping to come back to UF.
“At the end of the day, I’m still 
living, so there’s no bad in this,” the 20-year-old said. “I can only get better from here.”
      Before her accident, she was 
a sophomore runner for the UF cross country and track and ﬁ  eld 
teams. She currently holds the 
seventh-fastest 5K time for UF’s cross country women’s team.
She’s one of the crazy runners 
who enjoyed long runs, Brasure said with a laugh.
Her friend and former team-
mate, Devin McDermott, agrees.
“It was a good kind of crazy, 
where she was kind of up for any-thing,” the 22-year-old UF tele-The road to recovery 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Cans of green beans and corn are the 
kings and queens of the shelves in UF’s food pantry.
They reign everlasting as they watch 
boxes of macaroni and cheese, pasta and rice disappear from their kingdom before the sun sets.
“Everything that isn’t green beans goes 
pretty quickly,” said Wyatt Kelch, a stu-dent employee at the Field and Fork Pan-try.
On the shelves of the pantry, foods 
high in protein and grains are the first to go, the 20-year-old UF civil engineering sophomore said. Foods easy to prepare go 
quickly.
The on-campus food pantry, which 
opened in the Fall, offers free, nonperish-
able food to UF students, faculty and staff members.Tanja Philhower, the assistant dean of 
students, said the pantry is holding a food drive until April 1.
“We’re just trying to establish those 
kind of consistent drives that will keep the pantry in people’s minds,” she said.
Philhower said the food pantry has re-
ceived more than 26,000 pounds of donat-ed food, but it has given more than 25,000 to UF students and faculty.
Mitchell Kaye, a 19-year-old UF market-
ing junior, began Flex Philanthropy last year, a food drive that encouraged UF stu-dents to use their dining hall flex bucks to buy food. He’s now working with the 
pantry.
“At the end of the day, you can never 
tell who’s hungry,” he said.
For now, the kings and queens of the 
food pantry will sit on the shelves of their 
thrones, awaiting company in their realm.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgAt Field and Fork, donations leave as quickly as they comeBy Keiran Sheridan
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Christine Marino knows how 
it feels to struggle with depres-sion.
The 21-year-old wants stu-
dents who also battle depres-sion to know they’re not alone. 
To show others, she and 
members of Alpha Epsilon Del-ta, a pre-health honor society, passed out 400 brown paper bags to UF students as part of the ﬁ  rst “Every Gator Counts” 
event. 
Each bag held an anonymous 
story from one of about 20 stu-
dents regarding their struggle 
with mental illness.
The UF health education and 
behavior junior said being open 
about her ﬁ  ght with depression has helped her. 
Marino said she hoped the 
event provided others the op-portunity to open up.
“Depression is a parasite,” 
she said. “It feeds off of doubts while ﬁ  lling you with damag-ing thoughts. Once you have it, it never really goes away. The only thing you can do is try to 
ﬁ  ght it.”
AED members asked pass-
ers-by to sign a banner that 
read “Every Gator Really Does Count” and passed out informa-tion about on-campus mental health services. 
The paper bags symbolized 
the more than 1,000 college stu-dents across the country who commit suicide each year. 
The bags also contained sil-
ver Hershey’s Kisses.
Marino said she wanted to 
hold an event about mental health since the start of the se-mester but didn’t know what she wanted to do exactly. 
After the student deaths at 
Social 28 apartments in January and at Little Hall in early March, she decided the honor society needed to discuss resources 
available for mental health. 
“This was the second loss 
this semester,” Marino said. 
“It keeps happening more and more, and it keeps getting swept Speaking out 
against depression 
SEE DEPRESSION,  PAGE 4
The pantry opened in FallSEE RECOVERY,  PAGE 4MENTAL HEALTH
“Depression is a parasite. 
It feeds of of doubts while 
illing you with damaging 
thoughts. Once you have it, it 
never really goes away. The 
only thing you can do is try 
to ight it.”
Christine Marino
UF health education and 
behavior junior
“W e’re just trying to establish those 
kind of consistent drives that will keep 
the pantry in people’s minds.”
T anja Philhower
assistant dean of studentsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Concussion’
In collaboration with 
GatorNights, Athlete Brain brings “Concussion,” starring Will Smith, to UF. Presented during 
Traumatic Brain Injury Awareness 
Month and in extension of Brain Awareness Week, the night will kickoff with free pizza and prizes at 7 p.m. Friday in the Reitz Union Auditorium. An expert Q&A panel featuring UF leaders in concus-sion health care and research will follow at 7:30 p.m. Arrive early — 
seats are limited!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a “Kickin’ 
It Country” themed event Friday from 8:00 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature a mechanical bull, old-time photos and live entertainment 
from the band Wax Wings. The 
event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “Concussion” at 8:00 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The night will end with free coun-try breakfast during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night: ‘Capital Games’
On Friday at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Pride Community Center, located 
at 3131 NW 13th St., come see “Capital Games” with the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. Take two am-bitious men and one top Los Angeles advertising firm and add 
a competition for the same high-
ranking job. Steve Miller, a tough ex-cop for the Los Angeles Police Department, quit police work for the calm environment of a busi-ness office. Mark Richfield, the glamorous new kid in the office, soon wins favor with the big boss and co-workers, causing Steve to 
cringe in jealousy. After a crazy 
night in the Santa Fe desert, Steve becomes torn between passionate love and passionate hatred. Steve and Mark endure agonizing de-cisions that will affect their lives forever. Gay Movie Night is a free service of Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida. A $2 dona-
tion is requested to cover the cost of snacks.
Multifaith Music Fest
On Saturday, the UF Interfaith Ambassadors will be hosting the inaugural Multifaith Music Fest, showcasing the diverse artistry of 
faith- and non-faith-based groups 
in Gainesville. UF students and Gainesville nonprofit organiza-tions are cordially invited to at-tend. Performances will take place Saturday on Flavet Field at 7:30 p.m., and free food and water will be provided. The Multifaith Music Fest is the perfect way to spend a 
unique Easter weekend by listen-
ing to a variety of performers from all walks of religious and non-religious life. For event inquiries, please email Adam Gerstenfeld at interfaithuf@gmail.com.
Three Minute Thesis Final 
CompetitionThe UF Graduate School will host 
the third-annual Three Minute 
Thesis (3MT) Competition on March 29 at 2 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The competi-tion challenges doctoral students to present their dissertation to a non-technical audience in three minutes or less. Along with help-ing graduate students hone their 
communication and presentation 
skills, winners will be awarded cash prizes. This competition is open to the public. For more information, please visit gradu-ateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 125
HIGH  84° LOW  64°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
1
1312111098765432
  
   
   
  NNW 3rd St
SE 1st St
NE 3rd StSW 3rd StSW 2nd Ave
SW 5th AveSE 1st Ave
SW 1st AveManuel’s 
Vintage 
Room
Hippodrome
SUN
CENTERSE 2nd Ave
SE 2nd PlNW 2nd St SW 2nd St
SW 1st St
S Main St N Main St
E University AveDeath
or
Glory
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
communication senior said.
Brasure’s long-distance run-
ning training and optimism 
helped her recovery, Alicia Sav-
age, her occupational therapist, 
wrote in an email.
“I think being athletic did help 
her to rehabilitate quickly and al-
low her to focus on higher level 
goals sooner,” Savage said.
•   •   •
On Dec. 9, Brasure said she re-
members standing on a sidewalk curb while on her way home to 
study for an exam.
She said she was about to cross 
West University Avenue when a 
car swerved to avoid hitting other 
pedestrians. He hit her instead.
Her mother, Mickey Brasure, 
remembers Dec. 9.
She called her other daugh-
ters, Lauren’s sisters, and they made their way from Michigan to 
Gainesville.
“This was Lauren, this was our 
daughter,” she said. “It was un-
questionable.”
Brasure’s mother said after the 
accident, her family had to re-
mind Lauren what happened.
“In her mind, she wanted to be 
back in her apartment,” Mickey said. “It was her brain protecting her.”
Because she didn’t understand 
where she was, she tried to leave. Every night she was restrained because she forgot why she was there.
It wasn’t until about two 
weeks after the accident that she remembered what happened.
Since then, Brasure has been 
determined to recover.
“It really is not as bad as it 
could be, and I’m doing every-thing I can to get better,” she said.
•   •   •
After about three months, Bra-
sure is pain-free.
She said she graduated from 
the physical therapy program at Mary Free Bed Rehabilitation Hospital in Grand Rapids, Michi-gan, on March 17.But she still struggles with 
the effects of the incident. When speaking, she takes a few seconds to find the right words. When 
listening, she takes a moment to 
process information.  
Brasure got the green light to 
start running again a month ago.
She misses the camaraderie of 
her sport, but she’s just happy to be running again, she said.
“I’m just enjoying my freedom 
now,” Brasure said.
On March 29, Brasure is re-
turning to Gainesville to watch her friends compete in the Florida Relays, a three-day track and field 
competition.She said she still has to decide 
whether she’ll return to UF as an 
athlete, but she wants to come back to UF.
“To make a smart decision, I 
have to wait a little longer,” she said.
Lauren said her and her fami-
ly’s strong faith in God has helped through her recovery.
“Even though something bad 
happened to me, I’m still deter-mined to live the life I’m destined 
to live,” Brasure said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgRECOVERY,  from pg 1She was hit by a car on Dec. 9
under the rug.”  
Joseph Buss, a UF econom-
ics sophomore, said he felt the event helped start a conversa-tion about mental health. 
“It’s a topic that is not talked 
about frequently, and I think 
that it is difficult for people to get help themselves,” the 
19-year-old said. Marino said she hopes the 
event helped end the negative 
stigma surrounding mental ill-nesses. 
“Our brain is such an impor-
tant organ in the body, and we 
need to treat it like one,” Marino 
said. 
“We have to stop saying that 
‘it’s all in our heads’ because 
that’s exactly what it is. It is 
time we do something to allevi-ate it,” she said.DEPRESSION,  from pg 1They passed out 400 
brown paper bags
Courtesy to the Alligator
Lauren Brasure, 20, right, and her friends Brooke Combs, left, and 
Brandon Anselmini, attend Ferris State University’s final hockey game of the season.
By Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
Survivors of violence will take part in a pop-
up art series this week, raising both awareness 
and money for their cause.
Several events remain during Red Soul 
Days, a week of events that county commis-
sioners recognized with an official proclama-
tion Tuesday.
A show performed by burlesque dancers 
and other performers is scheduled for today.The show is meant to satirize fairy tales and 
shine a positive light on unlikely storybook characters, said Rachel Wayne, the creative di-rector of CerridwenWorks, a production agen-cy that organized the events.
“If they discover that they are a frog, they 
are OK,” she said.
Musical performances — including pop, 
rock, punk, country and swing genres — will accompany a drag show to further promote the message Saturday, Wayne said.
Many of the artists have stories about their 
own experiences with abuse or violence, and the event gives survivors a chance to be activ-
ists, Wayne said.
Other participants, she said, are allies in the 
fight against social injustice.
Event profits will benefit organizations that 
combat domestic violence, such as Peaceful 
Paths and Break the Cycle, Wayne said. Money will also benefit the River Phoenix Center for Peacebuilding focuses on general violence.
Jennifer Vito, the entertainment and artist 
coordinator, said the event is important for more than just the artists.
“Because these issues affect everyone in 
our community in some way, and it is impor-tant to participate, spread awareness and heal as a community,” she said.Using artwork and burlesque to unite against violence
“HAPPILY EVER AFTER”
• T oday at 8 p.m. at The Jam
• 817 W. University Ave.
• $5 to $20 sliding scale
“RED SOULS ROCK AGAINST VIOLENCE” 
• Saturday at 9 p.m.
• Hardback Cafe
• 211 W. University Ave.
• $5 donation
Keiran Sheridan / Alligator
Michelle Smith, a 20-year-old UF health science sophomore, and 
Christine Marino, a 21-year-old UF health education and behav-ior junior, talk to Joseph Buss, a 19-year-old UF economics soph-omore, during Alpha Epsilon Delta’s “Every Gator Counts” event. The pre-health honor society passed out 400 paper bags holding anonymous stories of AED members’ struggles with mental ill-ness to let students know they’re not alone.
It will be a weeklong art seriesTHURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Christena Carollo / Alligator
SPRINGTIME TOUR
Florida Cicerone Robbie Bromley, a UF industrial and systems 
engineering senior, leads a campus tour on Wednesday at the Reitz Union Amphitheatre.
THE EVENT WAS HOSTED 
BY HER CAMPUS AND 
SHE’S THE FIRST.
By Anayansy Hernandez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Keira Hornyak wrote “staying 
positive” on a banner that read 
“How Do You Love Your Body?” on Turlington Plaza on Wednes-day.The UF political science junior 
was one of about 76 students who 
signed a message for Her Campus 
UFL and She’s the First UF’s an-nual Love Your Body Day, said Victoria Messina, the campus cor-respondent for Her Campus UFL.
This was the first time Her 
Campus UFL partnered with the UF organization, which raises money for girls’ education in de-
veloping countries.
The two organizations part-nered together because they both 
focus on women’s issues, said 
Jacquelyn Hoza, the president of 
She’s the First UF. 
Messina said the event aimed 
to help women appreciate their bodies and reflect on their diver-sity.
Women of different races and 
religions should be acknowledged and celebrated, but they aren’t 
always portrayed in the main-
stream media, she said.Hornyak, 21, said she believes 
it’s important for events like this 
to remind students to stay posi-
tive. Students tend to get wrapped up in a negative mentality.
Marla Manes, an 18-year-old 
UF sustainability studies fresh-man, said women shouldn’t diet all the time.
“You can’t just restrict your 
body to eating healthy all the 
time,” Manes said. “You have to 
treat yourself.”Other girls took pictures with 
banners that read “Hey Justin 
Biebs... I already love myself!” 
They also handed out shampoo, eyeliner and 5-hour Energy sam-ples.
“The goal is to encourage girls 
to stop at our table and take a step back from all the madness and take a second to appreciate themselves for who they are,” 
Messina said.Students sign messages to promote positive body image
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested 
Tuesday after police said he hid more 
than a pound of cocaine in the trunk 
of his car.
At about 9 a.m., police with the 
Alachua County Drug Task Force 
stopped Demetrious O. Huston, 45, on State Road 93 for closely following another vehicle, according to a police report.
Huston told police he was only 
driving seven miles per hour over the 70-mph speed limit, according to the report.
He refused a search of his car, but 
a police dog smelled drugs, giving au-
thorities probable cause to inspect the 
vehicle, according to the report.Police found a sealed bag contain-
ing about 1.12 pounds — 508 grams — of cocaine in the trunk, according to the report.
Two other plastic bags concealed 
the bag of cocaine, all of which Hus-ton hid under the spare-tire compart-ment, according to the report.
He later accused police of planting 
the drugs in his trunk, according to the report. He did not make any other comments.
Police arrested Huston on a charge 
of trafficking cocaine, a first-degree felony.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $1 mil-lion bond.
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassoloPolice find a pound of cocaine in trunk of car TuesdayBy Liz Clancy
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two days before the anniversary 
of Zayn Malik’s departure from the 
hit boy band One Direction, Sony held a Gainesville listening party for his first solo album.
“Mind of Mine” will be released 
Friday, but fans of the 23-year-old Bradford, England, native received an exclusive playthrough at The Swamp Restaurant on Wednesday night.
About 15 guests listened to the 
new tracks through headphones and colored Zayn-themed printouts. Rebecca Kravetz, a college mar-
keting representative for Sony, said she helps coordinate similar events each month. 
“It’s a little different this time be-
cause he’s already a huge artist and huge in pop culture,” she said.
The ex-One Direction member, 
Zayn, released his first single, “Pil-lowtalk,” in January.
The song debuted No.1 on Bill-
board’s Hot 100 chart, and the music video has garnered over 254 million views on YouTube as of press time. 
“I think there’s so many people 
who are interested in this release and what’s to come,” Kravetz said. Kaleigh Smyrk, who became a 
fan of Zayn during his time in One Direction, said the album sounds more edgy and soulful than his past work. 
“I’ve only heard three songs so 
far but, they’re great,” the 21-year-old said. “You can tell he wasn’t super happy with One Direction, but I’m happy he’s able to create his own sound now.”
While mostly established fans 
comprised the event, some new lis-teners attended as well. 
Diego Sanchez, 20, said he might 
be a fan of Zayn after listening to the new album. 
“It has a seductive vibe and it’s 
kind of promiscuous,” he said. “The production of the song (Pillowtalk) is really ingenious and catchy.” Students gather for album preview
By Cynthia Lehrer
Alligator Contributing Writer
In honor of the NCAA Tournament, UF’s Zipcar pro-
gram created #ZipMadness.
Campus ambassadors will periodically bring small 
hoops and basketballs to places such as Turlington Plaza, the Plaza of the Americas and the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center, said Michelle Mogil, a Zipcar ambas-
sador.
Lindsay Wester, a spokeswoman for Zipcar, said stu-
dents can upload videos of their trick shots to Instagram for a chance to win one of several prizes.
“We wanted to rally school spirit around the big 
(NCAA) basketball tournament by creating a fun, en-gaging way for students to take part in their own con-test,” Wester said.
Campus ambassador Danielle Vargas said Zipcar is 
holding the contest for the first time. 
The submission, Vargas said, must be accompanied 
by two official hashtags and meet the April 4 deadline. 
A panel of judges will pick winning videos on April 
8, according to the Zipcar website.  
“This is a new effort to really get college students involved and interested in Zipcar by making it relatable, fun and friendly,” said Vargas, a 19-year-old UF natural resource conservation sophomore.
She said Zipcar gives students access to cars that in-
clude gas and insurance for hourly, daily or monthly fees. Mogil, a 21-year-old UF economics senior, said Zipcar has 18 campus parking spots, and international 
licenses are accepted.
“Even if you have a car, we all know it can be a pain 
to take your car out of those sacred parking spots once 
you’ve found one,” she said.Zipcar hosts UF trick-shot contest
Huston
Zayn releases first album
TRICK-SHOT CONTEST
Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m.
The Plaza of the Americas
MAIN PRIZE
A week of free Zipcar credits and $100 to ‘47, an athletic apparel company
CONTEST DEADLINE
April 4, 11:59 p.m.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
In light of 
tragedy, we must 
remain vigilant
Istanbul and Ankara in Turkey and, now, Brussels: three 
major cities devastated by terrorist attacks in the past two weeks alone, resulting in the deaths of so many innocents and leaving countless more injured. In fact, since November’s attacks in Paris, Beirut and Baghdad, 
hundreds of terrorist attacks claimed by groups such as the Islamic State, al-Shabbab and al-Qaeda afﬁ  liates have wreaked devastation in communities and cities across the world. These desperate times call for us to stand together in solidarity, in unity and in peace, much like the vigils and demonstrations of empathy we’ve so graciously seen in broadcasts and on our news feeds. Unfortunately, this is not all we’ve seen.
Shortly after news of Brussels surfaced, #StopIslam 
emerged into the Twittersphere, and  unsurprisingly, Don-ald Trump immediately came out on CNN to reafﬁ  rm his temporary ban on Muslims from entering the U.S. More-over, the Ted Cruz campaign’s response to Brussels includ-ed a strong criticism of American political correctness, argu-ing, “Our European allies are now seeing what comes of a toxic mix of migrants who have been inﬁ  ltrated by terrorists and isolated, radical Muslim neighborhoods,” and further concluding, “We need to empower law enforcement to pa-
trol and secure Muslim neighborhoods before they become 
radicalized.” This kind of response — pinning the U.S. and the West against Muslims, against refugees — is wrong.
If you look at the record of attacks from the Islamic State 
and other terrorist organizations, you’ll ﬁ  nd the majority of these attacks are directed not against the West or the U.S., but against Muslims and innocents in the Middle East and Africa. But while major news outlets covered the attacks in Paris and now Brussels extensively and immediately, equal-
ly traumatic attacks in, say, Baghdad or Istanbul, are left 
signiﬁ  cantly underrepresented. The collective ﬁ  ght against terrorism is universal, inclusive of Muslims and non-Mus-lims alike: a fact this disparity in coverage fails to substan-tially acknowledge.
As for the concern of terrorists riding the backs of refu-
gees to inﬁ  ltrate the U.S., it should be duly noted that of the 784,00 refugees the U.S. has resettled since Sept. 11, 2001, according to the Migration Policy Institute, only three 
were later arrested for planning terrorist activities. Yet we 
have presidential candidates who equate admitting refugees with opening the country up to terrorism, and we have U.S. citizens who fear Islam and Sharia law coming to destroy us all. Disingenuous and dangerous, these arguments purport an unrealistic fear of the “other.” Meanwhile, that “other” consists of our fellow Muslim brothers and sisters across the world, who both prioritize peace and suffer from these in-cessant tragedies as equally as the people of Brussels, Paris 
and San Bernardino.
This is not the time for hate. This is not the time for 
walls. It’s OK to feel fear — these are, in fact, fearful times 
— but we need to be intelligent in where we direct and how we act on our fear. We stand best when we stand together, with understanding and empathy for one another’s strug-gles. And whether we’ll defer to ignorance and misguided fear or rise to the occasion by recognizing the colorblind, religion-blind and country-blind commonality of struggle 
against terrorism: This will be the test of our time. There is a problem with college basketball
With the men’s NCAA basketball 
tournament underway and March Madness in full swing, I thought I’d remind you if your bracket isn’t ru-ined by now, it will be. You know 
that one guy you’re friends with on Face-book who feels like he has to mention how his bracket is in the 95th percentile on ESPN.com? Yeah, his bracket is screwed as well. All of ours are.
Professor Jonathan Mattingly at Duke Uni-
versity calculated that the odds of obtaining a ﬂ  awless bracket are one in 2.4 trillion. Yeah, that’s right: trillion. This newly acquired number is actually rather optimis-
tic, as the previously held odds were about one in 9.2 
quintillion. To put this into perspective, there’s a sig-niﬁ  cantly higher chance you, the reader, could become president of the U.S. one day.
But even with near-impossible odds stacked against 
them, why do millions of sports fans excitedly pencil in college basketball brackets every March?
My theory is personal bracket ﬁ  lling is the only re-
maining aspect of college basketball we fans can count 
on.
Men’s college basketball has spent the last decade 
declining into the shadows of our country’s other major 
sports. This has absolutely nothing to do with the pro-fessional versus amateur argument. College football is currently the third most popular sporting event in Amer-ica, ahead of both men’s pro basketball and ice hockey. Where’s college basketball? Sitting eighth on the list, with its popularity cut in half since 1985.
So, how can college football be signiﬁ  cantly more 
popular than college basketball? Both are college-level sports with strong and passionate fan bases (thanks to alumni associations and family histories with each uni-versity). The answers are consistency and personal con-nection.
Fans tend to cling to consistency, in all forms of the 
word. In sports, consistency is the best thing you could ask for. Steph Curry and the Golden State Warriors going on a 20-game win streak is exciting and great for basketball. Tom Brady completing 28 of 30 passes on a Sunday leaves Patriots fans ecstatic and Dolphins fans sob-
bing. Chipper Jones playing all 19 seasons of 
his MLB career for the Atlanta Braves resulted in a bond so tight many fans cried as he took the ﬁ  eld one last time. Consistency allows for closer connections with players, resulting in a more fulﬁ  lling enjoyment of watching any 
team play.
What ruined college basketball wasn’t the lack of 
scoring or roster depth. It was the infamous “one-and-
done” rule, in which skilled players attend college for 
one season before abandoning ship for the much more lucrative NBA. The result has been a never-ending re-volving door of players, forcing us fans to learn new names each season. All the while, the best players leave us once the ﬁ  nal buzzer goes off in March.
This growing distance between college basketball 
fans and the players who simply use the platform as an NBA stepping stone has polarized both groups. De-
spite having never met the athletes themselves, fans of-
ten form family-like bonds with the players who stick around and actually play for the team.
And this is what I believe is at the core of college 
basketball’s decline: the loss of trust. The feeling that your school is No. 2 in the minds of these 18-year-old players while the paycheck from Nike waiting for them in the professional world is No. 1. But you can’t blame the players for taking the most efﬁ  cient road to success, 
can you?
This is not the fault of the players, but instead it is 
the fault of the system allowing it. It’s not that the play-
ers are necessarily more selﬁ  sh or transient, but instead that many fans believe them to be playing for the name on the back of the jersey, instead of the one on the front.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. His column 
appears on Thursdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Survivors art exhibit to open Friday
The Civic Media and Wild Iris Books will showcase the survivors’ art, pg 10.What’s inside: 
Check out this week’s “Mediocre Advice, ” pg 8.High Dive hosts Art Attack during Artwalk, pg 10.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Courtesy to the Alligator
Theatrical indie rock band of Montreal will perform Wednesday at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave. Frontman Kevin Barnes said the band is planning to shock the crowd.Of Montreal Returns
By Monica Humphries
Avenue Writer
Last year’s onstage antics included feathers, 
crazy wardrobes and boxing — but of Montre-
al’s lead singer, Kevin Barnes, couldn’t give any clues for the band’s upcoming show.
“It’s kind of a mystery,” he said.
Of Montreal will perform Wednesday at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second Ave., along with 
Pillar Point.
Originally from Athens, Georgia, the band 
has been performing since 1997. Florida has al-ways been a stop on their tour route.
“I feel a sort of connection to the state, and 
there’s a lot of really great people that live there,” he said. “It’s also fun to be somewhere 
that’s a little more tropical.”
The band is known for its wild theatrics and 
outrageous shows.
“One time I did ride a horse on stage,” he 
said. 
Although there likely won’t be a horse at its 
show, the band is planning to shock the audi-
ence.
“I’m using it as an opportunity to do some-
thing out of the ordinary,” he said.
Of Montreal’s tour began Thursday in Rich-
mond, Virginia, and the band’s Florida run will start Tuesday. When asked how he would de-scribe his music, Barnes listed a spew of words.
“It’s sort of glam-disco-Prague-folk music,” 
he said.
Of Montreal has had its fair share of band 
members, but Barnes has always remained con-
stant. Another constant member has been his 
brother, David, who develops a lot of the album artwork and the theatrics for the shows.
“I never really know exactly what it’s going 
to be until the stage,” Barnes said. “But it always is very immersive, psychedelic and fun.”
Barnes said he loves working with his broth-
er. They push each other artistically, but if a real ﬁ  ght were to occur, David would deﬁ  nitely win, 
Barnes joked.
“He could deﬁ  nitely beat me up,” he said.With 13 released albums and a 14th in the 
making, the frontman is fueled by creativity.
“I’m always sort of chasing the pattern of 
really being excited about something and then 
being bored with it,” Barnes said.
But some songs he never gets bored of. He 
said the audience’s reaction to some of the most popular songs makes the performance worth it. The upcoming album features a mixture of collaboration and his solo work. After so many albums, Barnes continues to be inspired by the same thing.
“It’s just getting excited about a certain kind 
of sound… or wanting to hear something that I’m not hearing in other places,” he said.
It’s an organic process. Creating music just 
naturally happens, he said.
Verónica Crespo, a 20-year-old UF telecom-
munication and Spanish sophomore, doesn’t like concerts — but she’s willing to adjust for an of Montreal show.
“Kevin just does outrageous things to 
keep making music,” she said. 
This will be her ﬁ  fth time seeing of 
Montreal. Crespo said she had no expec-tations for the ﬁ  rst concert. When the band started crowd surﬁ  ng on a pool raft, she was amazed.
“They’re just really weird,” she 
said.
Barnes’ advice for anyone who 
hasn’t been to a concert is to come with an open mind. He loves see-ing the audience dress up and em-brace the show.
“I think it’s really fun when 
people don’t look at it as an onerous thing but look at it as more of a communal thing,” 
he said.
Doors open at 8 p.m., 
and the show starts at 10 
p.m. Tickets are $18 in advance and can be purchased on ticketﬂ  y.com.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
By Hannah Ogden
Avenue Writer 
With limited tickets remaining, the Hippodrome State 
Theatre is looking like the place to be Saturday night.
“The Sound of Music” will be the featured ﬁ  lm at the 
Hippodrome Cinema’s “Cocktails & Classics” event this 
weekend.
The “Cocktails & Classics” event began two years ago 
and recurs every couple months featuring classic ﬁ  lms people may not have been able to see on the big screen, said Sarah Kunkler, the cinema director for the Hippo-drome.
As the cinema director, Kunkler is in charge of picking 
which ﬁ  lms are featured, and she said she chose “The Sound of Music” to kick off the spring season. 
The Hippodrome tries to tie the ﬁ  lms with seasons 
or holidays occurring around the time of the event, she said. In October, the “Cocktails & Classics” event fea-tured the ﬁ  lm “Birds,” and in December, the ﬁ  lm was “White Christmas.”
With a $20 ticket, individuals are granted admission to 
the event, hors d’oeuvres and a specialty cocktail, which is not released until the event, is available for those of age. The cinema seats 75 people and typically sells out for special events like this, Kunkler said.
The reception will begin an hour before the ﬁ  lm, and individuals can enjoy appetizers catered by Celebrations Catering while mingling with one another. It will be held on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor with cocktail tables set up with fes-
tive centerpieces, a red carpet and decorations meant to 
match the theme of the ﬁ  lm, she said.
“It’s a pretty minimal setup, but it looks pretty nice,” 
Kunkler said.
Doors will open at 6 p.m.
Attire for the event is not speciﬁ  ed, but people are 
encouraged to dress-up to match the theme of the movie or era it came out in.
One of Kunkler’s favorite parts about the Hippodrome 
is the diversity of its programming.
“We have a lot of different stuff that goes on for a lot 
of different age groups,” she said.
Lucy Mills, 49, is attending “The Sound of Music” 
showing, which is her ﬁ  rst “Cocktails & Classics” event, with her daughters Ann, 22, and Allison, 20.
Mills heard about the event through a Facebook post 
from one of her daughter’s friends.
“‘The Sound of Music’ is what appealed to me, and 
the idea of a cocktail included in the ticket price,” she said.
“Cocktails & Classics” is one of Kunkler’s favorite 
events because of the high levels of audience interaction.
With guests often arriving in elaborate costumes, she 
said “sometimes, people take it to the extreme.”The Hipp mixes cocktails, classics
 MEDIOCRE ADVICEMen, monogamy and mathematics
Dear Mediocre,Why do guys break up with awesome 
people?
- Upset
Upset,Guys are mysterious creatures we 
shouldn’t try to understand. Ever. 
In fact, they are so mysterious there is 
no real rationale for stupid behavior like dumping a perfectly perfect girl. I’m sure you fall into that category. Don’t be mod-est.
I actually have this theory that guys pre-
fer a complicated mess rather than a gal with a head on her shoulders. 
Maybe when it hits a certain level of 
“togetherness,” guys just can’t hang any-more — maybe the tables have turned and guys have become the almighty ﬁ  xers in relationships. 
Or maybe you just suck.Dear Mediocre,Do you believe in monogamy, or do you 
think it’s a taboo?
- Curious
Dear Curious,
The subject of monogamy is a curious 
one, and it can deﬁ  nitely stir up a lot of dif-
ferent emotions. With that being said, it is also very personal. But since you asked, I’ll go ahead and tell you what I think about the fairytale called monogamy: Your 20s are just much better without it.
How are you supposed to party at Can-
tina on ladies night with a ball and chain 
attached to your leg? You’ll probably face 
the pettiest relationship problems in your 20s by being monogamous.
 If you’re a guy or girl who craves ad-
venture, and you like to have choices, then don’t commit! Think of it this way — dur-ing holidays, you’ll save a bunch of money and not have to think about ﬁ  lling up a Hallmark card with a bunch of crap.Dear Mediocre,Any good recommendations for math tu-
tors?
- Clueless
Clueless,I can assure you if you put in extra 
hours at the library, then you will prob-ably be successful on whatever you have coming up. 
Forget those overpriced, underwhelm-
ing tutors. Make sure to bring every elec-tronic that can possibly distract you so you can really focus on the subject at hand. 
You just need a few quick glances at your 
notes, and you should be good. The mighty Library Gods will see how hard you’re working and give you the knowledge you need to ace that calc test!
Julia Nevins is a journalism senior. Need 
advice? Send questions to mediocre.alliga-tor.advice@gmail.com.
By Kemi Thomas
Avenue Writer  
Gainesville’s community theater brought home 
the big awards this past weekend. 
Actors’ Warehouse won major accolades both lo-
cally and regionally at the 2016 Southeastern The-
atre Conference, where they were the only commu-nity theater representing Florida, and at the 2015 Florida Theatre Conference. 
The group’s winning play, “Tshepang: The Third 
Testament,” pronounced “say-peng,” won Best Ac-tor, Best Actress and Best Community Play at the 2016 SETC, and it won the same three awards, as well as Best Director, at the 2015 Florida Theatre 
Conference. The play was written by Lara Foot New-
ton, who gave permission to director Jan Cohen to perform the show in November. The play is set in South Africa and is based on a real-life incident of 
a rape of a small child that galvanized the country. 
Cohen recruited her friends Mandisa Haarhoff 
and Steven H. Butler to become the leads in the play. 
“The reason it’s doable to talk about that horrible 
subject matter is because it is done in the traditional African storyteller,” Cohen said. “The storyteller, if you will, is an innocent bystander.” 
The innocent bystander is portrayed by Butler. 
One of the founding members of Actors’ Warehouse, 
he was reluctant at ﬁ  rst to portray Simon.
“With any artist, no matter how much we think 
or how much talent we have, there is a little part of us that thinks, ‘Oh, I don’t think I can do this, or 
you know I’m in over my head,’” Butler said. “You 
know, we start to doubt ourselves. I think it’s some-thing that is common in the creative process.”
For Haarhoff, the South African play hit close to 
home. The 29-year-old Fulbright scholar and doc-toral candidate at UF is from Port Elizabeth, South Africa. 
“I thought about my little sister living in South 
Africa, where these realities are not ﬁ  ction,” she 
said. “I want to be able to be there for her, and I am 
not. I am here trying to get an education and make a better situation.”
Even though the story was set miles away from 
the U.S., it is a story that many people can relate to. 
“I hope that they’re so aware, and that’s the pow-
er of theater, to make us aware that those things on stage are not so far at all, that they are closer than they think,” Haarhoff said.Local theater wins regional award
THEATRE
 FILM10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
THE CIVIC MEDIA CENTER 
AND WILD IRIS BOOKS 
WILL HOST THE EXHIBIT.
By Lauren Fernandez
Avenue Writer
In honor of April being Sexual 
Assault Awareness Month, the 
Alachua County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center is hosting its “Survivors of Violence” art ex-
hibit Friday.
The annual exhibit will be pre-
sented at the Civic Media Center 
and Wild Iris Books from Friday to Wednesday before moving to the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art from April 5 to April 14.
“Part of the reason that we 
gravitated towards an art exhibit 
is that it’s a really amazing way 
for survivors to have a platform to put their voices out into the community,” said Ashley Flat-tery, a victim advocate counselor at the VSRCC.
The crisis center accepted art 
submissions from victims of inter-personal violence across the com-
munity. The exhibit showcases 
the way art can be a healing tool, and it provides a space for sur-vivors to get their voices heard, Flattery said. The art showcased in the exhibit will be multimedia and completely open to the art-ist’s interpretation.
“It is absolutely all over the 
place,” she said. “We are always really excited to see the new and exciting stuff we get every year.”
The art submitted this year 
ranges from traditional paintings and sculptures to crocheted piec-es, homemade scenes and perfor-mances. Survivors will perform pieces and readings at the open-
ing event, which will be held at 
7 p.m. at the Civic Media Center and Wild Iris Books. 
Erica Merrell, a co-owner of 
Wild Iris Books, said the book-store hosts the exhibit each year, creating a room for survivors to decompress.
“I think that when we come 
out to this kind of event we are really showing survivors and our community that we are kind of aware of even their existence,” Flattery said. “Interpersonal vio-lence is something that is so ta-boo to talk about. It’s something that a lot of people are afraid to even discuss.”
The Wild Iris Project, a so-
cial group that meets at Wild Iris Books, is a group that was started by a survivor of interpersonal vio-lence who wanted to create a safe 
space.
“She wanted to help create a 
space that was social and educa-
tional and healing and all of these things,” Merrell said. “We were absolutely willing to give it a go.”
This year, the Wild Iris Project 
will take part in the exhibit with its own art submission.
“Our last activity was to craft 
these glitter jars,” she said. “They ﬁ  lled them with glitter and when-ever you feel triggered or anxious or angry, you can shake it up. As the glitter settles you can kind of concentrate on your breathing and try to reground yourself.”
Flattery said she hopes the ex-
hibit will unify survivors and the community.
“It also allows other people 
who are survivors to connect with other survivors, because I think one of the hardest parts is think-ing no one else has gone through this,” Flattery said. “We want 
them to know that they are not 
alone.”Survivors art exhibit opens Friday
By Fabiana Otero
Avenue Writer
Gainesville artists will have 
another outlet of exposure to the 
community during Artwalk.
Art Attack, a free local art 
show and craft fair with live music from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m., will be hosted Friday at High 
Dive, located at 210 SW Second 
Ave. The event is the brainchild of Pat Lavery, the owner of Glo-ry Days Presents concert promo-tion company, and Sarah White, 
the Art Attack coordinator.
While visiting Jacksonville, 
Florida, about two years ago, 
White was in awe of its thriv-
ing art scene and weekly events 
at venues. She searched for the same atmosphere in Gainesville but couldn’t ﬁ  nd it.
When White came across 
Artwalk, a display of varied art forms held downtown the last Friday of every month, she no-ticed its “lack of buzz.”
That’s when she got in touch 
with Lavery and pitched the idea of Art Attack at High Dive. Lav-ery supported White’s concept.
Presenting Art Attack at High 
Dive, as part of Artwalk, would allow Gainesville’s afﬂ  uence of art reach the public more suc-cessfully, White said.
Art Attack has since become 
a quarterly event.
Lavery is in charge of book-
ing local music with an acous-tic style that suits the event’s 
laid-back ambience. Starting at 
7:30 p.m., each band or soloist is allotted 30 to 40 minutes to perform.
The Pine Drape, an acoustic 
instrumental band, will be per-forming Friday.
Members John Sassano and 
Brad Woolard have played 
music together for the past 12 
years, Sassano said.
The Pine Drape also performs at venues such as weddings, private parties, open mics, bars 
and lounges.
The band’s slogan is “simple 
melodies to soothe the soul.”
White is in charge of reach-
ing out to artists. The event is free for the artists as well.
Artists Carrie and Jesus Mar-
tinez will be showcasing their 
art Friday.
Both artists are afﬁ  liated with 
Visionary CrossFit, located at 716 N. Main St., a gym that also focuses on the community and the arts, according to its web-
site.
Jesus is the owner and head 
coach. Carrie is the gym’s gal-
lery curator.
Carrie, Jesus and Tim Malles, 
a local astronomy artist, col-laborated to paint what is now High Dive’s Second Avenue wall mural.
The mural measures about 30 
by 60 feet, according to Lavery.
It represents the “local ﬂ  avor 
and beauty of Gainesville,” Car-
rie said.
Carrie will be live painting 
and selling paper prints of the 
mural and original paintings.
“Art Attack is a wonderful 
way to get underground artists out there,” Carrie said.
Artist Alix Mathia has sold 
her work in previous events. 
She ﬁ  nds the “beauty in things 
other people would think are useless” by creating upcycled jewelry.
She uses materials such as vi-
nyl records and bottle caps.
Because of Art Attack’s infor-
mal presentation, she ﬁ  nds that this event gives the public the 
opportunity to speak with the 
artists and for the artists to net-work with each other.
“This is a community ﬁ  lled 
with extremely talented people 
that see things in a beautiful 
way,” Mathia said.High Dive to host arts 
show during Artwalk
LOCAL
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Adapt or Die” was submitted by Varian Wolf for the “Survi-
vors of Violence” art exhibit on Friday.
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease @ Lux13 Apartments!3 Bed/3 Bath with screened patioW/D, Cable, Internet, & HBO$1,222/mo & Pet FriendlyAvail. April 1st , 985-974-5404    3-28-16-5-3
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
 
Hogan's Great Sandwiches hiring part-time deli help/closer and day availability.Apply at 2327 NW 13th St location. Must have reliable transportation.    3-24-16-5-14
 
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.  
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.  
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
FINALLY! A Weight Loss Program Just For Teens. Lose weight for GOOD with the “World’s BEST Weight Loss Program EVER!” Results Guaranteed “Or Your Money Back” Here’s How It Works! www.skinnynhot.com    3-24-16-1-16
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing 
responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email 
cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-
ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedJan Switkowski and the Florida 
men's swimming team opened the NCAA Championships in third place.Read the story on pg. 16.KEVAUGHN ALLEN 
SCORED A TEAM-
HIGH 22 POINTS.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Tyler Cavanaugh pointed to the 
crowd.
His three-pointer fell through 
the net with 54 seconds left, giving 
George Washington a four-point lead 
to effectively end the game.
Then, with 9.1 seconds left, the 
redshirt junior made two free throws 
after being intentionally fouled to end Florida’s season.
A team-high 22-point perfor-
mance from freshman KeVaughn Allen couldn’t lift No. 2-seed Flor-ida (21-15) over No. 4-seed George 
Washington on Wednesday, as the 
Gators lost 82-77 in the National In-vitation Tournament quarterfinals in 
Washington D.C.
“We’re better defensively than 
that. We come in here and score 77, 
and that should have been enough for us,” UF coach Mike White said. “And it wasn’t.”
With the loss, the Gators were 
eliminated from the NIT one game 
short of making the semifinals, 
which are played at Madison Square Garden.  
Florida shot 43.1 percent from the 
field and finished with four players in double figures, but were unable to limit the Colonials’ offense for a majority of the game. 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Butler named as finalist for Coach of the Year
Florida women's basketball coach Amanda Butler was named as a finalist 
for the 2016 United States Marine Corps/WBCA NCAA Division I National Coach of the Year on Wednesday. The Gators finished with a 22-9 record in Butler's ninth year as coach.ELIMINATED: Gators fall to George Washington in NIT
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio’s name was buzzing before 
the start of last season.
During spring practice and fall camp of 
2015, the transfer quarterback from Oregon 
State was standing out among Florida’s sig-
nal callers, and had he been eligible, he might 
have been the starter.
But he wasn’t eligible, and he couldn’t be 
the starter.
So when the season began, Del Rio got out 
of the way of the other quarterbacks and faded into the background — a choice he made for the betterment of the team.
“It was kind of an awkward situation in the 
sense that all I could do was focus on help-ing the defense get better on scout team,” the redshirt sophomore said. “You don’t want a transfer quarterback who’s on the scout team trying to be the outspoken leader when you can’t play that year.”
But now the focus is squarely on Del Rio, 
the frontrunner for the starting quarterback job in 2016 and the only quarterback currently at 
Florida’s disposal who has been on campus 
prior to January.
But he isn’t taking that fact for granted.“I think it’s an open competition,” Del Rio 
said. “I’ve been here, but I don’t think that makes me above or No. 1 right now. I have to earn it.”
The redshirt sophomore is familiar with the 
offense, though, and not just from his time at 
Florida.
Before Oregon State, he spent his freshman 
season at Alabama in 2013, when he walked on 
to play in current UF offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier’s system.
“I’ve been in (this offense) for a few years,” 
Del Rio said. “I haven’t played here but I do have experience running some of the plays. Del Rio embracing opportunityIan Cohen / Alligator Staff
KeVaughn Allen looks to pass during Florida's 72-66 loss to T exas A&M on March 11 in the SEC T ournament. 
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio throws a pass during  Spring practice. 
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
FOOTBALLTHURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
When Florida midfielder Sam-
mi Burgess started high school 
in 2009, the Gators' lacrosse program had yet to play a single game.
Seven years and 105 wins lat-
er, UF has been to the NCAA tour-nament five times, reaching the Final Four in 2012. The inaugural season aside, the Gators have yet to finish outside the top-15 at sea-son’s end. 
Florida's Amanda O’Leary, 
who has coached the program from the beginning, has created a winning lacrosse atmosphere in an unlikely part of the country.
Geographically, No. 3 North 
Carolina and No. 13 Duke are the closest ranked schools to No. 2 
UF (10-1), but they are both lo-
cated more than 500 miles away 
from Gainesville.
The opportunities for future 
Division I college lacrosse players 
are almost endless in the northern 
part of the United States, especial-
ly in Maryland and New England.
But the Gators have been able 
to reel in talent from the northern 
competition, as just four players 
on the 2016 roster are from a state 
south of North Carolina. 
Junior defender Caroline Fitzgerald, a Mount Sinai, New York, native, said that she was in-
trigued by the amount of growth 
the Gators experienced in a small amount of time.“In just three or four years, 
they were already winning major games against top opponents,” 
Fitzgerald said. “So, I figured this 
would be a great place for me to go and experience such a great 
athletic program.”
Burgess said having a newly built facility, which finished con-struction in 2009 and contains a 
12,000-square foot locker area, is 
a reliable recruiting tool, but she 
also gave some credit to the win-ning pedigree that Florida athlet-
ics has established over the years.
“People want to come here be-cause they want to play for the Florida Gators, and the Florida 
Gators are known for being one 
of the best programs for every-
thing,” she said.
And aside from growing the 
game by bringing players in, Bur-gess believes that current players 
will want to coach after they’re 
done playing in order to help cre-ate a winning atmosphere at other 
schools. In doing so, the ex-play-
ers can help continue to expand 
the game outside the northeast. 
For example, Shannon Gilroy, 
who played at Florida last year and was considered one of the 
nation’s best women’s collegiate 
players at the time, is an assistant 
at Big East rival Vanderbilt, who 
the Gators play at noon Saturday 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Burgess hopes that the success 
of Florida and in-state Division I 
foe Jacksonville, which has won 
35 games since the start of the 
2014 season, will serve as exam-
ples for other schools in the South 
that are trying to develop compet-
itive lacrosse programs.
“I think that (O’Leary) is prob-
ably really willing to help those schools,” she said,  “and give 
them advice in any way to make 
sure that they are just as great as 
we have become.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgLacrosse program successfully recruiting talent-rich northeast
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Caroline Fitzgerald makes a play during Florida's 16-6 win over Dartmouth on Feb. 27 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
 16 players are from Maryland
George Washington (26-10) shot 47.7 per-
cent from the field, the most given up by Flori-
da since its Feb. 27 road loss to LSU.
“We have a saying in our program, do your 
job,” White said. “We got to be more account-
able than that."
In his last game at Florida, redshirt senior 
Dorian Finney-Smith scored nine points and 
grabbed eight rebounds in a game-high 36 minutes, but fouled out with 16 seconds left and the Gators down by three.
Junior Kasey Hill finished with 12 points 
on 5-of-18 shooting and had a game-high seven assists. 
“Kasey Hill has had the best month of any 
Gator on our team,” White said.
The game’s tone was set in the first half 
when neither side could gain separation over the other.
It was Florida’s closest game of the NIT 
— the two teams tied 14 times and battled through 19 lead changes.
In its first year under White, Florida made 
a five-win improvement over last season, when the Gators failed to make both the NCAA Tournament and the NIT.
“I thought we represented our conference 
and our university the right way,” White said. “We had our opportunities, and we didn’t capitalize.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report.                            
                                                 @icohenb                         icohen@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 14GW shot 
47.7 percent 
“As far as making protection changes with 
the offensive line and understanding adjust-
ments of the routes, it’s more of a knowledge of the offense than anything.”
His relationship also goes back with head 
coach Jim McElwain, too.
McElwain brought an eighth grade Del Rio 
into a football camp while serving as Alabama’s offensive coordinator, and he did so again as Colorado State’s head coach when Del Rio was a 10th-grader living in Colorado.
“They put you to work,” Del Rio said. “I love 
the way that (McElwain) coached quarterbacks. He knows how to communicate with them. He 
knows how to coach them ... I really liked that 
sort of connection that we made and we con-tinued.”
McElwain liked it, too, and he was the first 
to offer Del Rio a scholarship to come play for the Rams.
“You could tell at that point he was going to 
be a really good quarterback,” McElwain said. “There’s something special about him.”
When the quarterback left Oregon State, the 
choice to come to Gainesville and join forces with both McElwain and Nussmeier seemed like a natural fit.
“Everything must be meant to be,” Del Rio 
said. “I’m really happy that they’re on the team that I’m on.”
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 14McElwain has 
known Del Rio since eighth grade
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith dunks during UF's 72-66 loss to T exas A&M on March 11 in 
the SEC T ournament. 
16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2016
UF IS SCHEDULED TO COMPETE 
IN SIX EVENTS TODAY.
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s swimming team got off 
to a record-breaking start in the NCAA 
Championships.
With a final overall time of 6:09.84, the 
Gators recorded their fastest relay time of 
the season and broke the previous school 
record in the 800-yard freestyle relay. Even with their record-breaking performance, the Gators finished third overall, 1.81 sec-onds behind first place Texas and just 0.26 seconds behind NC State. 
“Hats off to the other two schools, they 
swam real well too,” coach Gregg Troy said in a release. “For us, swimming the 
third-fastest time in history and putting up 
a new school record, we’re real pleased with it.”
The Gators got off to a rocky start in 
the first leg. Florida’s lead-off swimmer senior Pawel Werner was the team’s slow-est swimmer on the evening. His 200-yard split time of 1:33.11 put the Gators in a 1.2-second deficit to overall leader Texas 
and sixth in the overall leaderboard.
Sophomore Jan Switkowski quickly 
turned the tide for the Gators in the second 
leg. 
With a 200-yard split time of 1:31.33, 
his split was the fastest among the four Gators and the second-fastest 200-yard split in the entire relay. 
Switkowski’s performance was imme-
diately followed by junior Mitch D’Arrigo. D’Arrigo’s 1:32.69 time in the third leg was good enough to propel Florida up to sec-ond in the overall leaderboard, 1.44 sec-onds behind Texas. Sophomore Mark Szaranek completed 
the final 200 yards of the relay as Florida’s anchor. Szaranek swam fast enough in the first 150 yards to maintain Florida’s sec-ond-place spot on the leaderboard. In the final 50 yards, however, NC State’s Soeren 
Dahl swam by Szaranek to steal second 
from the Gators. 
“It was a great swim and we were able 
to break the school record and put up a fast time,” Szaranek said in a release. “We were hoping to finish a little higher than third but for putting up the third-fastest time ever, we’re happy with it.”
Currently eight points behind Texas in 
the overall standings, the Gators are sched-uled to compete across six different events today. Two of the biggest individual events for the Gators will be in the 50-yard free-style and the 1-meter dive. 
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel and senior 
Corey Main will both be competing in their first event of the meet in the 50-yard free-
style. 
Dressel, Florida’s winningest swimmer 
this season, will look to defend his national 
title in the 50-yard freestyle later today. 
In the 1-meter dive, freshman Samuel 
Smith will be competing in his first NCAA championship event of his collegiate ca-reer. 
While UF diving coach Dale Schultz 
isn’t expecting a victory from Smith this evening, he knows that a good finish from his talented freshman would go a long way for Florida’s national championship chanc-es.
“If Sam got top 16 this week that would 
be very good,” Schultz said. “I don’t have any expectations of winning right out of 
the gate.”
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org 
Florida men’s swimming team opens NCAA meet in third By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Hitting the ball against Florida is 
hard enough, and getting on base is 
simply asking too much. 
That’s because so far this season, 
No. 1 Florida’s pitching staff has been nearly untouchable. The three-armed attack of Aleshia Ocasio, 
Delanie Gourley and Kelly Barnhill is 
the most effective in the nation with a combined 0.87 ERA. 
And if opponents somehow put a 
bat on the ball, they probably won’t 
make it to first. 
The Gators top the country in 
fielding percentage with .986. Only 
four players have committed an er-
ror all season. 
“That’s the one thing we’ve really 
tried to recognize,” coach Tim Wal-
ton said Monday, “how important the defense really is to the game.”
The 2015 National Championship 
team gave up an average of 1.82 runs per game. This year’s squad has cut that already impressive figure in 
half. 
And it all starts in the pitcher’s 
circle, where Ocasio has spent more 
time than any other UF pitcher this year. 
“Having confidence in (the) de-fense really calms me down in the circle,” she said, “just knowing that everyone has my back is just a plus.”
Ocasio is always pounding the 
strike zone. After facing 237 batters, she’s only walked 12. 
“My goal is to make good pitches 
and the result is ground balls, fly balls for my defense to make,” Oca-
sio said. “That’s really what I’ve 
been working on — to make good pitches so I don’t give batters free-bies.”
She hasn’t given batters anything 
this season, as she leads the nation with a 0.41 ERA. 
And it’s not just the sophomore. 
Florida’s other two pitchers have 
also stunted opposing offenses.
Gourley has the nation’s fifth-
best ERA at 0.86, and Barnhill set a 
school record with 18 strikeouts on 
March 16 against Winthrop. 
To put the trio’s dominance into 
perspective, No. 19 Tennessee came 
into Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium with a top-20 .356 team batting aver-
age. It left with seven hits in three 
games. 
“They’re doing such a good job,” 
outfielder Justine McLean said. “This 
pitching staff — they’re all so differ-
ent, and they’re dynamic about how they go against each batter.”While McLean credits the pitch-
ing staff, she’s also played a big role in the UF’s defensive dominance. The junior hasn’t made any errors 
and recorded a highlight-reel assist 
Sunday, fielding a ball off the right-field fence and gunning down a Tennessee batter digging for second base.
“This is probably one of the 
best outfields I’ve been a part of,” McLean said. “I think we’re really quick all of us, just getting to the ball 
and accurate throws. And we’re all 
just really fast.”
The Florida (30-1, 5-1 Southeast-
ern Conference) defense will be put to the test when it plays a double-
header against No. 6 LSU in Baton 
Rouge today at 5. 
While LSU boasts the nation’s 
second-highest batting average, Flor-
ida is prepared to stunt the Tigers.
“We’re taking ground balls. 
We’re doing roller drills. We’re 
working on our gloves. We’re work-ing on our footwork. We’re working 
on angles,” Walton said. 
“It’s definitely grueling … but the 
result is that we just don’t make a 
whole lot of unforced errors.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgUF pitching trio dominating opposition
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Aleshia Ocasio pitches during Florida’s doubleheader sweep of 
Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jan Switkowski swims the butterfly stroke during Florida’s loss to Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center. 
SOFTBALL
T oday’s Events
Prelims: 10 a.m., Finals: 6 p.m.
Individual Events: 
• 1 meter dive:
 Samuel Smith
• 500 Free:
 Pawel Werner, Mitch D’Arrigo, 
Arthur Frayler, Austin 
Manganiello, Ben Lawless, Blake Manganiello
• 200 IM:
 Jan Switkowski, Mark Szaranek, Brennan Balogh, 
Alex Lebed
• 50 Free:
 Caeleb Dressel, Bayley Main
T eam Events:
• 200 Freestyle Relay: Florida
• 400 Medley Relay: Florida