We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 54 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
Florida plays in SEC semiﬁ  nals today
Melanie Monteagudo scored the game-winning 
shot, pg. 16
UF and FSU to hold unity gospel concert
It will honor victims of racial violence, pg. 3
Florida Museum to host astronomy night
The event will feature telescopes and 3-D planetariums, pg. 4Follow our election 2016 coverage
Read our candidate proﬁ  les, pg. 5
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
In light of the death of a UF 
student bicyclist last week, many 
Gainesville residents — including Mayor Lauren Poe — have re-evaluated street safety in the city.
Poe said that now, more than 
ever, bike safety should be a pri-ority, and that he is working with local groups, police departments 
and UF President Kent Fuchs to 
make strides toward education and safety.“This is actually one of the 
main issues that I ran on when I ran in the ﬁ  rst place,” Poe said. 
“This is a huge priority for me. 
We need to change the conver-
sation and ultimately change the 
culture in Gainesville for all the users of our roads.”
This sense of urgency comes 
less than a week after UF student 
Abby Dougherty was killed while 
riding her bicycle near Midtown on Friday.
Poe said making roads safer 
for bicyclists will also make them safer for scooters, cars and all ve-hicles that transport Gainesville residents around town.
“I think everyone can do bet-
ter, and that’s part of our chal-
lenge,” Poe said. “We can really 
help change that culture.”
Steve Taylor, the communica-
tions manager at the League of American Bicyclists in Washing-
ton, D.C., said bikers should nev-
er assume cars will pay attention to them.
“If you’re commuting, ﬁ  gure After UF student’s death, city 
oﬃ   cials look into bicycle safety
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Cody Cason, 21, a chef at Eat the 80, dishes up one of many 
samples at the grand-opening event at their new location on Thursday evening. Carlee Marhefka, 27, a co-owner of Eat the 80, said they were expecting about 140 people to attend.
THE FREE PERFORMANCE 
WILL BE AT FIRST UNITED 
METHODIST CHURCH.
By Catherine Dickson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
On Saturday, Joshua Mazur will 
play songs for the dead. Over a period of seven months, 
the UF music composition doctoral 
student wrote a 12-song requiem, a funeral composition, to voice the outcry of more than 30,000 women who were abused while working in asylums in Ireland.
The hourlong performance will 
honor the women who suffered 
at the hands of the Roman Catho-lic Church. For decades, they were forced to work and wash away their 
sins in residential workhouses, the last of which closed in 1996, accord-ing to The Boston Globe.
When Joshua Mazur, 26, heard 
their stories, he wanted to give them a sense of peace — something he be-lieves the women never got. 
At 7:30 p.m., the Gainesville Mas-ter Chorale and Orchestra will per-
form the free show at the First Unit-
ed Methodist Church of Gainesville, located at 419 NE First St. The choir will sing a rendition of Mazur’s “A Magdalene Requiem, In Search of Mercy.” Most UF music composition students do not have the opportunity to hear their own work performed 
before they graduate. With this performance, Mazur 
wants to bring attention to the lives 
lost.
“Each of them suffered, but they 
suffered together,” he said. “These women never had a requiem. They deserve a requiem.”
•   •   •
In April, Mazur asked his sister to The Requiem: Through music, a student honors lost livesTHEY ARE RUNNING TO 
REPRESENT DISTRICT 3, 
WHICH INCLUDES 
ALACHUA COUNTY.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
In front of a crowd of 50 resi-
dents, three congressional candi-
dates squared off over the econo-
my, the Affordable Care Act and 
student debt. 
Incumbent Republican Con-
gressman Ted Yoho, Democrat 
Ken McGurn and independent 
candidate Tom Wells are all can-didates campaigning for a seat in the U.S. House of Representa-tives. 
Yoho, a self-proclaimed Chris-tian, conservative and family man, told the audience he wanted to earn their trust. 
“I’m asking you to trust me 
and send me back for the next term, and if you don’t like what I do, throw me out,” he said.  
McGurn, a Vietnam War vet-
eran and a Gainesville business-
man, said he wanted to run to 
support other veterans. 
“I got into this race because I 
saw my fellow veterans needed 
help,” he said. 
Meanwhile, Wells, a local the-
oretical physicist, said he would 
like to combat global warming and create a socialized health 
care system. 
“The ﬁ  rst thing I would hope 
to do would be to improve the environment in Congress to the 
point we can address those prob-lems,” he said. 
During the debate, McGurn 
accused Yoho of supporting the “birther” movement against Pres-ident Barack Obama.
Yoho later said McGurn has 
never held a position or received 
an award mentioning veterans. 
“I think that record speaks for 
itself, too,” Yoho said.
When it came to debating 
Obamacare, Yoho said it should 
be replaced with a “common-sense” policy. 
“It’s patient-centered health 
care,” he said, adding that, like 
Obamacare, it would cover preex-isting conditions and keep people 
on their parents’ health plans Local U.S. House candidates 
debate Obamacare, student debtSEE REFORM,  PAGE 4
SEE DEBATE,  PAGE 5
SEE REQUIEM,  PAGE 8Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  60°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
BFA dance showcase: ‘Mind Your 
Step’
The UF School of Theatre and 
Dance presents the Fall Bachelor of Fine Arts dance showcase, “Mind Your Step,” from now un-
til Sunday in the G-6 studio in the 
Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and 
Dance Pavilion. The annual Fall performance showcases works 
from UF dance students, fac-
ulty and guest artists in two pro-grams. Tickets start at $7 and are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
Stop Hunger Now
The UF College of Agricultural and Life Sciences (CALS) has con-tinued its partnership with Stop Hunger Now to package meals for families in need. The event will be held today from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on UF’s campus in the Straughn Extension Professional Development Center, located at 2142 Shealy Drive. People can register to volunteer and package meals by contacting Charlotte Emerson, the CALS director of student development and re-cruitment, at cemer@ufl.edu. Volunteers are asked to bring three nonperishable items for the UF Field and Fork Food Pantry. 
Donations to help purchase the 
meals can be made at uff.ufl.
edu/appeals/stophunger.
Jacaré Choro concert Monday
Brazilian music ensemble Jacaré 
Choro presents a concert in col-
laboration with the UF Brazilian 
Music Ensemble, Digital Worlds Institute and Brazilian Music 
Foundation on Monday at the 
Digital Worlds Institute. The 
concert will feature UF School of Music faculty, graduate students and special guest artists. The 
concert is free and open to the 
public. To learn how to RSVP, 
please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Russian Club Fall Festival
The Russian Club is having a fall 
festival Sunday. The event will 
be held in the Graham Gallery from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. The club will be serving traditional Russian food, and there will be performances by members of the Russian Studies program. Attendance is free and open to the public. 
GatorNights: Villains vs. Heroes
Tonight, GatorNights brings you a “super” good time with Villains vs. Heroes. Test your knowl-edge and outwit your friends at 
villain-and-hero-themed trivia. 
There will also be an 8 p.m. and 
10:45 p.m. showing of “Suicide 
Squad.” GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF 
students with their Gator 1 Cards 
at the Reitz Union. Attendees 
must be current students to par-
ticipate.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 54
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested two 
Georgia men after ﬁ  nding about 122 
grams of heroin in their car Wednesday.
At about 9:40 a.m., 
Jose Juan Irizarry Mota, 34, of Jonesboro, Georgia, and Yomar 
Eusebio Candelario, 
28, of Stockbridge, Georgia, were pulled over near mile marker 378 northbound on 
Interstate 75 for having dark-tinted 
windows and following too closely behind another vehicle, according to the report.
After seeing there was an illegal 
amount of tint, the ofﬁ  cer started to issue a warning, according to the report. While writing it, the ofﬁ  cer noticed indicators of other criminal activity and asked to 
search the car.Uncontrollably shaking, Irizarry 
Mota told the ofﬁ  cer there was nothing to be concerned about in the car, and 
Candelario, the driver, then gave the ofﬁ  cer reasons not to search the car, according to the report. The ofﬁ  cer’s 
police dog, Shiloh, then 
began to smell around 
the car, later giving the 
ofﬁ  cer a positive alert for narcotics. 
Inside the car, the 
ofﬁ  cer found about 122 grams of heroin concealed inside a 
black backpack on the back passenger-
side ﬂ  oorboard.
Police arrested the two on charges 
of trafﬁ  cking in opium, and took them 
to the Alachua County Jail, where they 
remain as of press time in lieu of $20,000 
bonds.
costroff@alligator.org
@ceostroffGeorgia men pulled over with 
more than 100 grams of heroin
Mota
By Robyn Wilbar 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Wearing T-shirts inscribed with the words 
“Our hands are lifted,” Florida State Univer-
sity’s and UF’s gospel choirs will harmonize in concert for the ﬁ  rst time.
The two schools will hold a joint unity 
concert at the Phillips Center for the Per-forming Arts on Saturday at 7 p.m. 
The concert will honor victims of racial 
violence and the local law enforcement of-
ﬁ  cers who are working hard to build peace, 
said Sanethia Thomas, a chairperson for the event.
“I don’t know if it was in the midst of the 
events in Charlotte and Oklahoma, but it just 
came to me,” Thomas said.
The 36-year-old UF doctoral student and 
member of UF’s University Gospel Choir said 
this will be the biggest concert they have 
ever put on.
For the ﬁ  rst act, UF will wear black T-
shirts and FSU will wear white. During the 
second act, they’ll change into their respec-tive school colors, and for the ﬁ  nale, mem-bers will move around onstage, creating a sea of orange, blue, garnet and gold.
“We needed a platform where we saw 
two opposing sides coming together, and I immediately thought of FSU,” Thomas said.
Brandon Christian Waddles, the director 
of FSU’s Gospel Choir, said music is called the universal language.
“Music in its own way crosses over all of 
those barriers,” Waddles said. “For that rea-son, music can be used to solve world peace if used effectively.”
Tickets are free and available at the Phil-
lips Center.UF and FSU to hold unity 
gospel concert this weekend
 SONGS TO BE SUNG
“Better” by Hezekiah Walker
“Better” by Tye Tribbett
“Make It” by Charles Butler and Trinity
“My Hope” by Jonathan Nelson“Let the People Praise” by  Mike Brown and FocusCandelario
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
out the safest route to take, even if it’s not the 
shortest,” Taylor said. “Use lights, wear a helmet — these simple things make a difference.”
Ultimately, though, Taylor said there is no such 
thing as a perfect city.
“It’s about how different groups work with the 
city itself,” he said. “Every town has a different structure, so things will always vary. Even with all the progress that communities have made, we still see injury and fatality.”
In September, Gainesville was ranked the most 
bike-friendly city in Florida by bicycling.com. The city ranks No. 16 out of 50 nationally.
Poe said although the rating is good, it must not 
make local leaders and residents complacent.
“What the rating shows is that we’re better 
than most, but we have so far to go,” Poe said. “I think that voting for Wild Places and Public Spac-es would definitely move us toward that. A vote for that amendment by citizens would be a vote 
for moving toward bike safety in Gainesville as a 
whole.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org
REFORM,  from pg.1Poe warns residents to be aware of bikesEmma Green / Alligator Staff
DRIVING (ME) NUTS
A Planters peanut truck drives past Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Thursday afternoon.
THE EVENT, STARRY 
NIGHT, WILL FEATURE 
TELESCOPES, 3-D 
PLANETARIUMS. 
By Amanda Nardi
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Tonight, visitors of the Florida 
Museum of Natural History can see the stars up close.  
From 6 p.m. to 10 p.m., the mu-
seum is hosting Starry Night, an 
astronomy-themed event that will 
include a telescope clinic, during 
which people who own telescopes can learn more about them, and interactive activities like children’s 
games and 3-D planetariums.
Chelsea Collison, the museum 
educator, said the main purpose 
of the event is to make astronomy more accessible to the public. 
“A lot of people buy telescopes 
and don’t know how to work them,” Collison said. “This is an opportunity for them to speak with someone about it.”
Co-hosts of the Public Broad-
casting Service show “Star Gaz-ers” James Albury and Dean Regas will speak and meet with attendees during the event. 
Vicki Sarajedini, a professor in 
the UF Department of Astronomy, said Cathy Olkin, a deputy project scientist for NASA’s New Hori-zons mission to Pluto, will also be speaking at the event.
“We have no pictures of any-
thing that far out and that close up,” Sarajedini said. “Having someone come out and describing 
what we learn from this will be 
cool.”
Celine Sanchez, a UF chemical 
engineering freshman, said she is 
excited for the telescope exhibit at 
the event. 
“The night sky is always chang-
ing, so it’s always nice to come out 
and look at the sky,” the 18-year-old said. “You never know enough 
about space.”Florida Museum of 
Natural History to host astronomy night
ACTIVITIES AT THE EVENT: 
• Two 3-D planetariums
• T elescope clinic
• Guest speakers 
• “Cosmic Time Tunnel, ” which guests can 
journey through 
• A showing of movie “3-D Astro Wall” in the 
Thompson Gallery 
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
NEW SIGNAL AHEAD
Construction crews worked on Thursday morning to install a new stoplight on Southwest Archer Road, which will help traffic at the new Celebration Pointe shopping center.
PLAN OF ACTION:
• Collaboration with UPD and GPD to hold 
events on safe bicycling practices
• Make strides for Gainesville to adopt Vision Zero, a multinational road traffic safety project with the goal of creating highway systems free of serious injuries
• Devote more tax dollars to making transportation work for everyone, beginning with Wild Spaces and Public PlacesBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
After being tasked with 
redeveloping downtown 
Gainesville about 20 years ago, Democrat Ken McGurn wants to take on Florida’s Dis-
trict 3 as a congressman.
Mc-
Gurn, a 
political 
newcom-
er and the founder of Mc-
Gurn  Manage-ment Co., 
is running to represent a slew 
of 13 North Central Florida 
counties, including Alachua County.
Among the primary tenets 
of his platform are job cre-ation, environmental sustain-ability and community-college affordability.
Since he founded McGurn 
Management, he has brought more than 1,000 jobs to East Gainesville — where there was once rampant crime and high poverty — and the sur-rounding areas of the city, he said. In the process, he increased the tax rate in East Gainesville 80 percent, he said.
“I’ve been helping people 
for years,” he said. “Let me keep doing it.”
McGurn said he feels like 
under his leadership, Alachua County can become the solar capital of the South. By bring-ing in solar-panel manufactur-ing and training people to do 
installation, both job creation 
and climate change can be ad-dressed while also lowering costs for residents.
To help students attain the 
skills needed to earn a suc-cessful job, McGurn also sup-ports making community col-lege free for a student’s ﬁ  rst 
two years, he said.
“I’m really sensitive to 
student loans,” he said. “It 
took me years to pay off my student loans, and even the president struggled with his.”
As a local business owner, 
McGurn said, he has stood by his values while supporting 
job growth in the community, 
putting trust in its residents along the way.
“I’m a developer and a 
Democrat, and I’m proud of the projects we built,” he said. By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
After living off food stamps 
as a UF student and later opening his own veterinary clinic, Republican Ted Yoho found a calling in local poli-
tics.
Yoho,  
an incum-
bent state 
representa-
tive in Con-
gress for Florida’s District 3, is running to continue 
representing 13 counties, in-
cluding Alachua County, fac-
ing Democrat Ken McGurn and independent candidate Tom Wells.
The other counties he 
would represent are Bradford, Union, Clay, Dixie, Columbia, Levy, Lafayette, Madison, Marion, Gilchrist, Suwannee 
and Hamilton.
As a fundamentalist 
Christian and a supporter of 
Republican presidential can-didate Donald Trump, Yoho believes in family values and the American dream, a dream he said is under attack by in-creased government spending and programs.
He considers the need for 
well-paying jobs, responsible immigration reform and im-proved beneﬁ  ts for veterans and ﬁ  rst responders to be among his highest priorities.
“I believe in the greatness 
of America,” he said. “We’ve strayed from that, and I want 
to put it back.”
Before becoming involved 
in politics, Yoho put himself 
through school after his par-ents divorced and lost their house, he said. He and his wife lived on food stamps un-til they both graduated from UF. Until running for Con-
gress, Yoho had no political 
experience.
After 30 years of owning 
and working in his own vet-erinary clinic, Kanapaha Vet-erinary Services, he began to notice political problems like immigration, the national debt and social security inef-
ﬁ  ciencies plagued the nation, 
he said.
“I went from the cowpen 
to Congress,” he said. “I didn’t go there for a job. I went up there for a cause.”FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Political advertisement paid for and approved by the Alachua County Democratic Party, Box 5216, Gainesville, FL 32627. Approved by Hilary Rodham Clinton, Democrat, for U.S. President; by Patrick Murphy, Democrat, for U.S. Senate; by Ken McGurn, Democrat, for U.S. Representative, 
Dist. 3; by Rod Smith, Democrat, for Florida State Senate, Dist. 8; by Marihelen Wheeler, Democrat, for Florida State House, Dist. 21; by Sadie Darnell, Democrat, for Alachua County Sheriff; by Mike Byerly, Democrat, for Alachua County Commissioner Dist. 1; by Robert “Hutch” Hutchinson, Democrat, for Alachua County Commissioner Dist. 3; by Charles S. “Chuck” Chestnut IV, Democrat, for Alachua County Commissioner Dist. 5; by J.K. “Jess” Irby, Democrat, for Alachua Clerk of the Circuit Court and Comptroller.WE ARE STONGER TOGETHER. VOTE FOR DEMOCRATS NOVEMBER 8.
Hillary Clinton & Tim Kaine 
Democrats for U.S. President 
and U.S. Vice President
Patrick Murphy Ken McGurn
Sadie Darnell Robert Hutchinson Mike Byerly Charles Chestnut J.K. “Jess” IrbyRod Smith Marihelen Wheeler
Clerk of Circuit Court 
and ComptrollerVOTE NO
Constitutional 
Amendment 1   
VOTE YES
Constitutional 
Amendment 2, 3, 5VOTE YES
Alachua County Questions 1 and 2
1. Renewal of One Mil Ad 
Valorem Tax for School District
2. Wild Spaces and Public Places
one-half percent sales taxAlachua County 
Commission District 5Alachua County 
Commission District 1Alachua County 
Commission District 3Democrat, Alachua 
County SheriffDemocrat, United
State SenatorDemocrat, U.S. 
House District 3Democrat, Florida 
Senate District 8Democrat, Florida 
House District 21
until they’re 26. 
Ideally, 26-year-olds wouldn’t 
need to be on their parents’ health insurance, he said. 
“Why do I want my children 
on my health plan until the age of 26?” he said. “I would think you get a good education, you get a good job.”
Wells disagreed. “Health care is a human right,” 
Wells said. McGurn said Obamacare isn’t 
perfect and that it can be improved. 
“The existing Congress has been 
unable to do that,” he said. “So the folks in the existing Congress need to be changed so we have another shot at correcting this.” 
When asked how students can 
be ﬁ  nancially stable without rais-
ing the minimum wage, McGurn 
said it should be raised and that two years of college should be free. 
“Education is the future of this 
country,” he said. 
Wells said current student-loan rates are toxic. 
“We are not trying to create a 
society of indentured servitude,” he said. 
Yoho said raising the minimum 
wage would drive people out of the marketplace and that students should ﬁ  nish college as fast as pos-sible. 
“There will be a struggle, and 
then there will be a reward after that,” he said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org DEBATE,  from pg.1McGurn accused Yoho of supporting birthersBy Katelyn Newberg
 and Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
In a political arena tra-
ditionally saved for major parties, independent can-didate Tom Wells hopes to give Alachua County resi-
dents a third option come 
Election Day.
Run-
ning to represent District 3, 
the key aspects  of his 
platform 
include  raising  
the minimum wage, pro-tecting the environment and implementing social-ized health care.
“I think at a federal lev-
el I want to help the whole 
world,” he said.
Wells, a ﬁ  rst-time politi-
cian and ardent supporter 
of Sen. Bernie Sanders dur-ing his presidential cam-paign, said he believes both political parties are equally ineffective because Congress is controlled by corporations and cannot fully serve the American people until the system is reformed.
Wells has also voiced 
concerns with the U.S. military’s participation in 
for-proﬁ  t wars. He said 
in order to help veterans, the country should simply avoid war.
“Let’s ﬁ  rst work for our 
veterans by having less veterans and putting them in less questionable cir-cumstances,” he said.
In regard to environ-
mental policy, Wells said politicians need to priori-tize curbing global warm-ing and transitioning to sustainable energy. He has criticized hydraulic frac-turing and the Sabal Trail pipeline, a natural-gas 
pipeline that will run un-
derground from Alabama to Florida, cutting through a sliver of Alachua County.
If Wells does not win 
in this election, he said he plans to run again in 2018, possibly as a Democrat.
“My issues are with 
my grandchildren growing up,” he said.Get to know the candidates: State Representative, District 3
McGurn
Wells
Yoho
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left: U.S. congressional candidates Democrat Ken McGurn, 
independent T om Wells and Republican T ed Yoho debated on Thursday evening at Santa Fe College during the Candidate Forums event, moderated by David T egeder.
TED YOHO KEN MCGURN TOM WELLSThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
You’re sitting in the driver’s seat of your ol’ beat-up 
Chevy, parked at the edge of the hill overlooking the city. 
He’s looking as gorgeous as ever, illuminated by the twin-kling lights of the town. “The city looks beautiful from here,” you whisper to him “but not as beautiful as you.” You lean in for the kiss, and he meets you there. “I’ve never done this before,” he giggles nervously as he crawls into the back seat. “Yeah, me neither,” you whisper to yourself as you turn around and look at him. He’s smiling, waving one ﬁ  nger your way, silently telling you to join him. You’re about to crawl back there, but you spot a copy of the Alliga-tor on your dashboard. “Not tonight,” you say to the guy you love, who’s been waiting a whole year for this moment.  
“I’ve got to read…
Darts & Laurels.”
It’s unbelievable this election cycle has barely mentioned 
the critical issue that is climate change. Given that 2016 
continued all the catastrophic trends scientists have claimed 
it would, we really need to start taking this threat seriously. 
To ironically highlight this issue, earlier in spring, Con-gress approved the National Bison Legacy Act, declaring the American bison the national mammal of the U.S., and 
it ﬁ  nally became ofﬁ  cial Tuesday. We drape this laurel on 
you, Congress, for at least pretending you care about 
preserving our one good planet.
Speaking of Congress, the Republican members of the 
Senate have agreed they will not conﬁ  rm any Supreme Court Justice nominees that are proposed by a Clinton ad-
ministration. There was absolutely no precedent for the ar-gument that President Obama wasn’t supposed to nominate a justice in an election year. In fact, it’s happened several 
times before. The fact that the GOP is trying to hold our 
Supreme Court hostage for four more years is despicable; they are directly interfering with democracy. We lob a dart 
at these sore-loser GOP senators who try to ruin it for everyone else when they don’t get what they want.   
Hell, our democracy has gotten so bad that U.S. District 
Judge Loretta Biggs claims North Carolina, a swing state with 15 electoral votes, has engaged in Jim-Crow-style vot-er suppression that is “insane” and leaves her “horriﬁ  ed.” 
Apparently, several North Carolina counties have purged a 
total of 6,700 voters from the rolls over the past two years, prompting the NAACP to sue. We give a laurel to Judge 
Biggs for ﬁ  ghting the purges and restoring rights to vot-ers.
At least things don’t look so crappy outside the U.S. On 
Thursday, while an Australian man was looking for a make-shift bathroom when “nature called,” he stumbled upon the oldest-known evidence of aboriginal people in Australia. It 
was previously estimated the aboriginal peoples came to 
Australia about 39,000 years ago. But thanks to Clifford Coulthard’s tiny bladder, he stumbled upon rock art that’s been dated to be about 49,000 years old. We give a laurel  
to Mr. Coulthard and his urinary system for acciden-
tally making the Australian prehistory discovery of a lifetime.
We love to end Darts & Laurels on a happy note. Remem-
ber that editorial we ran Tuesday about that young autistic 
black student who was shoved to the ground during a race 
in Rochester, New York? Originally, the arrest warrant peti-tion was denied. But as the stories caught wind, it seems the respective courts have changed their mind and decided to issue a warrant for Martin MacDonald, who admitted he 
pushed the student. We give a laurel to whomever the 
hell changed their mind.The problem with TV news is partisan commentary
On Monday, CNN announced it would 
be severing ties with Donna Brazile for furnishing Hillary Clinton cam-
paign chairman John Podesta with 
questions that would be asked in one 
of the primary debates. The emails, which were provided by a WikiLeaks email dump, 
reveal that Brazile sent Podesta emails de-
scribing almost verbatim some of the ques-tions Clinton would receive. While Brazile was initially hired by CNN speciﬁ  cally to be a Democratic strategist, her actions were, as her CNN col-
league Jake Tapper put it, “journalistically horrifying.”
However outrageous and unethical Brazile’s actions 
were, they are nothing new to an election that has been 
plagued by partisan commentators who are either paid 
generously by or have close connections to their respec-
tive campaigns. 
These so-called commentators blur the line between 
media and politics and completely disregard the line between honesty and deceit. Rather than remain loyal 
to the essential journalistic principle of truth, they are 
loyal to the candidates who pay them or provide them with opportunities for political mobility.  
This, of course, is not a practice unique to the Clin-
ton campaign. After Corey Lewandowski was ﬁ  red as chairman of the Trump campaign, he was hired almost immediately by CNN as a political contributor while also receiving severance pay from the Trump campaign. In addition, Lewandowski has remained subject to a 
nondisclosure agreement forbidding him “from making 
disparaging or revealing remarks about the candidate.”
Similarly, Fox News anchor Sean Hannity makes no 
secret of his loyalty to Donald Trump while at the same 
time hosting a political TV program. To give him some 
credit, he admits he “never claimed to be a journalist.” Tuesday, however, Hannity shared what later proved to be a fake story about how Michelle Obama deleted her tweets endorsing Hillary 
Clinton, a possible sign that the Obamas were 
distancing themselves from the candidate. If he claims not to be a journalist, why does he attempt to assume that role and in an ethically 
negligent way?
The bottom line is, when you watch what 
appears to be a news program or a debate be-
tween two people who hold different political 
views and represent different political camps, keep in 
mind that what you are actually watching is just a ver-
bal war between two candidates who are often being paid hundreds of thousands — or even millions — of dollars to defend their candidate unwaveringly.
As Jack Shafer pointed out in a Politico op-ed, “By 
dividing their partisan contributors between Republi-cans and Democrats, TV creates the illusion of impar-tiality and inclusion.” 
This model of “news” TV is an insult to journalism 
and an insult to viewers, who are led to believe that what they are seeing is a fair debate on substantive pol-icy issues. It simply isn’t.  
Instead, news networks should hire journalists, such 
as Dana Bash and Megyn Kelly, whose only loyalty is to the truth and who are beholden to no individual or party. Perhaps it is also the responsibility of the Federal Election Commission to curb this blatantly unethical campaign practice by at least preventing full-time po-
litical contributors from being paid by campaigns. 
If not, the integrity of journalism will continue to 
decline, and honesty will continue to be compromised 
by the forces of opportunism and wealth.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science and tele-
communication senior. His column appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Julian 
Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Back in 2015, Sean Murray, the head 
developer and mastermind behind the video game “No Man’s Sky,” ap-peared on the late-night programs of Jimmy Fallon and Stephen Colbert to 
promote a game that was very far from be-ing ﬁ  nished. Then, after multiple delays, the supposedly “completed” game was released in August, only to be bombarded with poor reviews and intense criticism.
When Murray was showing off the game, 
both the overly excited hosts and viewers at home were astonished by what they were see-ing. The idea behind “No Man’s Sky” is bril-
liant and unconventional: a game that takes 
place in a seemingly inﬁ  nite universe of more than 18 quintillion planets, randomly gener-ated and populated by a complex algorithm. The player is simply dropped into this colos-sal world and must ﬁ  ght for survival against both alien foes and intergalactic elements.
The demos shown leading up to the re-
lease displayed magniﬁ  cent, colorful worlds swarming with imaginative life forms and activity. What the public actually got, however, was another — and much more boring — story.
Instead of the fascinating and 
happening planets shown in adver-tisements and demos, the major-ity of planets on the game turned out to be barren, monochromatic wastelands, which were home to a couple of odd-looking creatures sluggishly wandering the worlds like prison-ers bound to their respective cells. Instead of the intense space battles that were adver-
tised, users found the space between planets 
to be mostly, well, space. And that type of space is just plain boring.
Maybe “No Man’s Sky” is actually a re-
alistic depiction of outer space, and maybe even a lesson for us to learn. Maybe space really is just an impressively immense desert, completely and utterly devoid of life and in-teresting activity. Or maybe it’s not, and “No Man’s Sky” is just a boring game?
Even if real space turns out to 
be nothing but a deadly, dark des-ert, it is still amusing to imagine it teeming with activity. And that’s 
exactly what consumers were ex-
pecting of “No Man’s Sky” — not a realistic space simulator, but in-stead an ambitious and fun game, a way to live out the space fanta-sies and daydreams of our youth.
The game might be a tragic disappoint-
ment, especially to those poor souls who waited so anxiously and even pre-ordered the 
game, but that is not even the biggest prob-
lem here. The real issue is one of consumer protection. The idea that consumers have rights to fair trade and “accurate information in the marketplace.”
Just last month, it was reported that the 
Advertising Standards Authority, a group located in the U.K., was investigating “No Man’s Sky” for “misleading advertising,” spe-ciﬁ  cally the “discrepancies between what is in the game and how the game is described and portrayed in a trailer shown on Valve’s Steam website.”
 Whether the ASA ﬁ  nds “No Man’s Sky” 
guilty of misleading advertising or not, it brings up a very important topic that is often neglected. As consumers, we sometimes have a blind faith in companies, trusting that ev-erything they say is truthful and hardly ever being skeptical of their claims. 
Personally, it rarely crosses my mind that 
an advertisement is lying to me, which is largely due to the faith that I have in govern-
ment agencies like the Federal Trade Com-
mission, which are designed to prevent such dishonesty in the market. Consumers should be reminded to stay vigilant and skeptical of advertising, treating an ad for a new TV with the same questioning as a mud-slinging po-litical ad. 
Andrew Hall is a UF business administra-
tion junior. His column appears on Fridays.
False advertising: the 'No Man’s Sky'  video game and consumer protectionColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
help him put words to his music. 
Lyda Mazur, 22, said they began 
researching the history behind the 
Magdalene asylums. 
The women of the asylums were 
sent there because they were victims of rape or believed to be prostitutes. 
Their children were taken from 
them, and they were forced to work for the sins they were accused of, she said. 
“They were held against their 
will, and they weren’t properly taken care of because they were paying for their sins,” she said. At times, her brother doubted his 
ability to properly tell the stories of the women, but she encouraged him to continue.
As a man, he needed to speak up 
for women who lack equality, Lyda Mazur said. Being a male, he had to use his privilege for good, she said.
“It’s very important to use your 
platform to speak out about some-
thing like this,” the Florida Southern 
College English senior said. 
Joshua Mazur said he knew he 
had to use his talents to honor their legacy and give them the funeral he felt they deserved. 
After hearing the stories of the 
women, he wanted to write some-thing with more depth than he had 
ever written. 
“I was waiting to find a subject 
that seemed to be looking for expres-
sion,” he said. 
So with a pen in hand, he began 
to compose. 
•   •   •
His passion for music began 
when he was 11. 
In a room surrounded by instru-
ments at his middle school, he knew he wanted that view for the rest of 
his life. 
“That was it,” he said. “I was 
hooked.”
He began to learn how to play the 
flute and decided he wanted to study 
music at a collegiate level. 
Joshua Mazur earned his bach-
elor’s degree from Florida Southern, where he said he wanted to study music composition. But after the col-lege cut the program, he began to study piano and eventually added voice performance. 
Joshua Mazur’s talent was clear 
from the beginning, his wife, Han-nah Mazur, 26, said. By age 19, his work had been performed in Europe, she said.
“I have always known him as a 
composer in some capacity,” the UF alumna said. “But it has really been in the last year and a half that he has 
really bloomed as a composer.”  
•   •   •
With the help of his mentor, Wil-
lard Kesling, a the UF director of cho-
ral activities, Mazur began to piece together the song.  
Kesling said the piece is not 
meant to condemn the Catholic Church for allowing the asylums to exist, but rather to honor the women who were in search of mercy.
“It’s some ugly history that in-
spired the creation of the work,” Kesling said. “It was turned around to make it something of beauty.”
Joshua Mazur said he chose Kes-
ling because of his expertise and ex-perience. 
“Everything I give to him be-
comes something more than I ever thought it could be,” he said. 
Joshua Mazur credits his profes-
sors for being able to complete the piece.
“Working with Dr. Kesling, from 
the moment I walked into his room, has changed my life every day,” he said.
For the past eight weeks, the 
choir has spent a total of 16 hours practicing every song in the perfor-mance, Joshua Mazur said.
In rehearsals, Kesling went 
through each line of music until the choir conveyed the message the au-dience is meant to hear — the souls of the women who deserved better.
•   •   •
Mazur’s work weaved itself into 
every aspect of his life. 
At home, he created a haven in 
his living room where he connected his computer to a wide-screen TV 
that displayed his musical score in 
55 inches of high definition.
At school, he worked with his sis-
ter in the Reitz Union for six to eight hours at a time. He estimated they spent more than $200 at the Star-bucks there in a month.
But he could only bear the stories 
for so long. About halfway through 
completing the requiem, he took a 
step back from composing for about a month. 
“It’s horrific,” he said. “It was 
just really difficult to work on.”
The work consumed his mar-
riage, he said. 
The requiem became what they 
spent most of their time talking 
about. Their Friday movie nights 
were replaced with reading, writing and composing pages of music.  
But between the talks of compo-
sitions and research, they leaned on each other for support. 
When the semester ends, the two 
will head to New York City, Joshua Mazur said.
“I’ll shut down the composer mill 
and just be her husband,” he said. 
•   •   •
When he climbs onstage Satur-
day, Joshua Mazur hopes the wom-en will hear their song in spirit.  
With each of the 12 songs, he 
wants to make the audience feel 
what the women of the asylums felt.  
But the performance will be an 
art, something he enjoys, he said. 
“That brief blip of time that we 
get to perform is just true ecstasy,” 
he said. “We like to make the feeling last as long as possible.”
In the second-to-last song, “In 
Paradisum,” Joshua Mazur wrote 
of his hope that the women have 
passed on and have realized their sins are not what trapped them in asylums.
“The angels will lead you into 
paradise,” the choir will sing.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org REQUIEM,  from pg. 1‘It’s some ugly history ... turned around to make it something of beauty.’By Robyn Wilbar 
Alligator Contributing Writer
An environmental and urban 
historian displayed the irony of a 
magazine cover at a talk Thurs-day. The cover depicted a funeral home with children full of life.
It was just one example of 
how society’s views of death are constantly changing, said El-len Stroud, a history professor at 
Pennsylvania State University. 
During her talk at Smathers Li-brary, she discussed how society views funeral homes, corpses and 
cemeteries. 
She told about 60 attendees 
that funeral homes in residential areas can make people sick due 
to the constant reminder of death. But in the late 1870s, she said, a New Jersey court ruled funeral 
homes were not a nuisance. 
This shows how society has 
had differing opinions on and re-
actions to death throughout his-
tory, she said.
Railroad workers in the 1800s 
did not want to transport bodies due to the inhumanity of han-
dling them as if they were pieces of baggage, she said. “Living things that become 
inanimate objects are a slippery subject,” Stroud said.
Sophia Acord, the associate 
director of the Center for the Hu-
manities and the Public Sphere, 
said they hosted the event to get people to discuss death, because 
it is something society often 
pushes out of mind. 
“Every single one of us has death in common,” Acord said. “Since we put it out of our minds, 
we don’t understand how it af-
fects us and makes us unable to 
support one another during the grieving process.”
Four other talks will be hosted 
discussing death, the next one 
being Feb. 1 at the Millhopper 
branch library. Penn State professor discusses perceptions of death
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Joshua Mazur, 26, warms up his Chamber Singers, a small portion of the Gainesville Master Chorale, on Monday evening during rehearsal. 
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Willard Kesling, the UF director of choral activities, conducts the Gainesville Master Chorale on Monday evening. 
An illustration was provided for “A Magdalene Requiem, In Search of Mercy” concert on Saturday. It displays a woman intended to be from one of the Magdalene asylums.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new 
BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/
ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D 
Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus 
rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-
9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-
16-12-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Live Next to Campus
Big, clean, furnished room in 3/1.
$567/mo. UF Law housemates.
Call Connor: 904-718-5943      11-8-16-5-3
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
NC MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE LURE 1300 sq ft of cedar chalet 2/bed, 2/bath on 2.88 acres w/mountain views $174,900 866-738-5522       11-4-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Public Auction - Onsite & OnlineMidway Industries, LLC.Saturday, Nov. 12 at 12:00 PMAuction will be held at the InterContinental Miami Hotel 100 Chopin Plaza, Miami, FL 33131Featuring an extensive collection of high-end designer jewelry, Watches (Patek Philippe, Rolex, Cartier), Vintage Louis Vuitton trunks, bronze statues,  Vintage slot machine & more! Preview: Friday, Nov 11th from 10 AM-4PM and morning of sale 9 AM - 11AM.Receivership Case #14-CV-2312-JFMCatalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.com15%-18% BP  $100 cash refundable deposit to register(800) 840-BIDS AB-1098  AU-3219, Eric Rubin     11-4-1-10
Ashley mission style recliner in very good condition. Brown faux leather, walnut 
arms and sides for sale $250.00  352-377-1851    11-7-16-3-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      11-4-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-16-5-12CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647          11-4-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatestThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and 
Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
ACROSS
1 Start of
something
4 Know-it-all
9 Sticky roll
13 Title car in a
Ronny & theDaytonas hit
14 Michelangelo’s
“The LastJudgment,” e.g.
15 Australian export16 Like Gen. Powell17 Vito Corleone
talkingbobblehead?
19 N.T. book before
Phil.
20 Denver-to-
Wichita dir.
21 Oppressive
atmosphere
22 Goal of a holistic
chiropractor?
26 Renewal notice
feature, briefly
27 Like a well-
written mystery
28 Hammer user’s
cry
32 Payment in
Isfahan
35 Chem. and bio.
37 Drift (off)
38 As a group,
emulate Popeye?
41 Singer DiFranco
42 Pop43 TV oil name44 “The Good Wife”
figs.
46 Fabric rib
48 Its home version
debuted at Sears
in 1975
50 Maiden aunt
mascot?
54 Israeli prime
minister after
Barak
57 “__ Gotta Be Me”
58 Way to go: Abbr.
59 Enjoying the new
car ... or what
four puzzleanswers areliterally doing
62 Great Basin
native
63 Saharan
64 Hydrocarbon gas65 Rx item66 Inheritance factor67 Tends
68 Humanities maj.
DOWN
1 Way out2 Mike or Carol on
“The BradyBunch”
3 “I guess the
moment hasfinally arrived”
4 Impetuous5 Find a new table
for
6 Nile slitherer7 It’s here in Paris8 Anchored for life,
as barnacles
9 Word in morning
weatherforecasts
10 Mil. mail drops11 It faces forward in
a stop sign
12 Big name in jazz14 Like IHOP syrup18 Alabama
Slammer liquor
23 Type of tide24 Troublemakers25 Often29 Bridge bid
30 Glasses with
handles31 One working on a
bridge: Abbr.
33 Fleur-de-__
34 What a kid is
prone to make inwinter?
36 Farm mom38 Pastoral call39 Early exile40 Ones with clout45 Variable
distancemeasure47 Hand-held allergy
treatment
49 Insatiable51 Very long time52 Political
columnist Molly
53 Island bird
named for its call
54 Doe beau55 Long-eared critter56 Similar60 Snacked61 __ Na Na
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/04/1611/04/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 4, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 WantedFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Designated drivers are the greatestDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AAStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
Looking for a student with strong excel/num -
ber skills, accurate and details oriented to 
support our digital marketing team. Flexible 
schedules (4/5 hours a week). Join our team! Email resume and cover letter to morandot -
ti@dibari-id.com or call  305 570 9385    11-
7-16-5-14
Office Assistant: One of these passions- FX Show Justified/health & fitness/TedTalks. Rhonda Rousey follower, non stalker a plus. Excellent writing skills, love to read, math interest. 1 yr+ commitment, part-time to full-time, competitive compensation. paulsroth -
stein@gmail.com     11-7-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
PT cleaners needed for home/apt/office cleanings ..day and night positions available. $ 8.50/hr weekly pay &must own a reliable car and be able to pass a drug/background check. If interested please call 352-214-0868    11-8-5-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
Entry Level
Heavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497          11-4-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgViagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305        11-4-1-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 11/7- 11/10 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.
teachingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.    11-7-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ATTENTION ADVERTISERS
IN HONOR OF OUR VETERANS,
THE ALLIGATOR WILL NOT BE
PUBLISHING ON:FRIDAYNOVEMBER11TH
DISPLAY: 376-4482 
CLASSIFIEDS: 373-3463RUN DATE DEADLINE
WEDNESDAYNOVEMBER 9TH
THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 10THMONDAY
NOVEMBER 14TH
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 15THLive Longer.
Drive Sober.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on Florida Gators 
sports, follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online at www.alligator.org/sportsWomen's basketball players earn SEC honors
Florida women's basketball players Ronni Williams and Eleanna Christinaki 
were both named to the coaches' preseason All-Southeastern Conference teams, announced Thursday. Williams was named to the preseason First T eam All-SEC while Christinaki was named to the All-SEC Second T eam.Led by senior Savannah Jordan, 
the No. 15 Florida soccer team will play the undefeated No. 2 South Carolina Gamecocks today. Read a preview of the SEC T ournament match, pg 16By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With tired legs and a sweat-soaked jersey, 
Justin Leon approached the free-throw line with 
the weight of the team on his shoulders. 
It was the end of a grueling Thursday after-
noon practice, and the 6-foot-8 forward had to sink two-consecutive free throws. If he missed, the whole team had to run.
Leon pounded the ball three times on the 
floor, gently spun the ball in his hands and re-leased.
He swished both shots.Leon’s offense was an enigma last season. 
He averaged only 5.3 points per game but shot nearly 50 percent from the field. And while the Gators’ poor free-throw shooting was usually at-tributed to the abysmal shooting of guard Kasey 
Hill and center John Egbunu, who shot 53.8 per-
cent and 53.2 percent from the line, respectively, Leon was actually worse from the charity stripe, converting just 46.2 percent of his attempts. 
That’s changed now.
In Florida’s exhibition game against Eckerd 
College on Oct. 26, the senior went 6-for-6 from 
the line. On Thursday, UF coach Mike White said 
Leon was shooting around 90 percent from the 
line during practice.
“He’s really poised at the foul line right now,” 
White said. “He’s in a really good mental place 
not only with his shooting, but the way he’s play-
ing. The game has slowed down for him a little bit.”
In addition to Leon, sophomore forward Kev-
arrius Hayes has made a jump on the offensive 
end.During practice, White had his team run vari-
ous 5-on-5 half-court and full-court drills. And 
like Leon, Hayes, who averaged 2.8 points per game last season, played with intensity and con-trol.
He was active on the boards, snagging of-fensive rebounds from the clutches of opposing center Egbunu. The 6-foot-9, 218-pound Hayes 
dunked at every opportunity and managed to 
scrape his way through a packed paint, convert-ing on a few tough put-back layups.
“That’s Kevarrius every day,” White said. 
“(That’s) a microcosm of who he is.”
 BY THE NUMBERS
Justin Leon last year
• Played in 34 games
• Started 11
• 5.3 points per game
• 3.1 rebounds per game
• 49.3 percent from the field
• 37.3 percent from three-point 
range
• 46.2 percent from the free-
throw line
UF's Next Game: Nov. 11 vs. 
Florida Gulf Coast in JacksonvilleLeon, Hayes looking to become impact players
Site: Razorback Stadium  
                  (cap: 72,000)
Kickoff: 3:30 p.m.TV /Radio: CBS/Gators  
                   IMG Sports Network
Alligator Staff
All right, we’ll let you behind 
the scenes. 
Ever wonder how all of our 
football stories end up in this newspaper every Monday?
It doesn’t happen by accident. We here at the Alligator, out 
of the goodness of our hearts, travel to each football game the Florida Gators play, enduring free food and an air-conditioned seat in a press box to watch a game for three hours to give YOU the coverage you need. 
Nay, the coverage you de
-
serve. 
This week’s game, in Fayette -
ville, Arkansas, is 14 hours away. 
And boy, are we excited for 
this car ride.
To give our readers an idea of 
just how long 14 hours is, we’ve broken it down in terms college students can understand.
A 14 hour drive is equiva
-
lent to...
- At least 2.5 drunken frat par -
ties.
- Binging 28 episodes of The 
Office on Netflix.
- Walking from the Reitz 
Union to Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 105 times.
- If you’re a journalism ma
-
jor, 13 hours longer than you’ve studied for exams so far this se
-
mester. 
- If you’re an engineering ma -
jor, 172 hours less than you’ve studied for exams so far this se
-Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Justin Leon backpedals on defense during Florida's 77-72 win over Ole Miss on Feb. 9 in the O'Connell Center.  Last year, the forward averaged 5.3 points per game and shot 46.2 percent from the free-throw line, but has looked much improved this preseason.
They have improved on offense
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15PICKS
14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
emailus@goautobid.com
No charge until vehicle sold
FREE REGISTRATIONgoautobid.com
BUY OR SELL
UF TENNIS 
AT ITA NATIONAL INDOORS
Men's Tennis
Doubles
Arthur Rinderknech / Max Lunkin (T exas A&M) def  Alfredo Perez/Johannes Ingildsen (UF) 4-6, 7-5, 1-0 (8)
Singles
Gage Brymer (UCLA) def. Alfredo Perez (UF) 6-4, 7-6 (5), 6-2
Women's Tennis  
Doubles
Josie Kuhlman / Belinda Woolcock (UF) def. Elizabeth Proﬁ  t / Blair Shankle (Baylor) 6-3, 6-1
Singles
Josie Kuhlman def Aldila Sutjiadi (UK) 6-1, 1-6, 6-2Astra Sharma (Vanderbilt) def. Be-linda Woolcock (UF) 7-5, 3-6, 6-2
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Josie Kuhlman returns a ball during the 2016 ITA Regionals. Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock won at the ITA National Indoors on Thursday.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Intensity is the word coach White 
uses to describe the play of Leon and 
Hayes. Despite their limited but im-proved offensive capabilities, both players leave their mark through the hustle they bring each time they step 
foot on the court: fighting through 
screens, sacrificing their bodies on defense, diving for loose balls and playing with discipline.
And those are qualities UF’s sec-
ond-year head coach hopes rub off on the rest of the team.
“We’re able to use Kevarrius 
Hayes and Justin Leon as examples 
of motor every day,” White said. 
“Those guys have brought up the overall intensity level of everyone else just a little bit because of how 
hard those guys play.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg.13Both are 
forwards
mester.
- The amount of time Poke -
mon Go was popular for.
- The amount of total sleep 
you average during finals week.
You get the picture.
Debating this week’s decision 
on whether or not to drive to Ar -
kansas for this week’s game are 
sports writers Patrick Pinak and Ethan Bauer.Not driving to Arkansas 
wins because...
Look, Fayetteville is 
some 1,000 miles away from 
Gainesville. That’s like the equiv
-
alent of a light year to college 
students. No one wants to jam their legs inside a Toyota Corolla for 15 hours just to see another humdrum road game reminiscent of UF’s 13-6 win at Vanderbilt. 
A first-class plane ticket on the 
other hand? Now we’re talking. 
-Patrick Pinak
Driving to Arkansas wins 
because…To combat Patrick, I tried to 
find interesting things to do in 
Arkansas. I found Little Rock 
Central High School, the Clin
-
ton Presidential Center and the Walmart Museum. And I think those invigorating Arkansas at
-
tractions speak for themselves. 
-Ethan Bauer
Now, onto the picks!In sole possession of first 
place for the first time this sea
-
son with a record of 37-33-1 is 
the Gainesville Sun’s Graham “I could’ve been an NFL quarter
-
back, bro” Hall, who takes the time to show off his #MadSpi
-ralSkillz with the pigskin each Tuesday as reporters wait to talk to football players after practice. We’ll humor you, Graham — a starting quarterback job could still be in your future. How does one man generate such sheer ve
-
locity on a football while wearing flip-flops? Get that recruiting tape out to some colleges, ASAP.
In second place with a re
-
cord of 36-34-1 is sports writer Ian “Consistency is Key” Cohen, who patted himself on the back Thursday afternoon after achiev
-
ing his third-straight D on a re -
cent exam. Consistency may be important, Ian, but usually not when something is consistently bad. Let's just hope your stories are better than your test scores. 
Next is a two-way tie for third 
place with records of 34-36-1.
First is GatorCountry.com’s 
Nick “Thankless” De La Torre, who suggested to UF offensive line coach Mike Summers that being an offensive lineman is a "thankless award." You know what's really thankless? How no one gives you credit for downing all those protein shakes every day.
Next is sports writer Ethan 
“Chin Lover” Bauer, who, upon getting up-close and personal with Florida defensive lineman Jordan Sherit in an interview on Tuesday, was blown away at the size of Sherit’s chin. “Jordan Sherit is the real-life Crimson Chin,” Bauer yelled in jubilation. “It’s huge!” Hey, Cleft the Boy Chin Wonder, we’re just glad you went with a cartoon refer
-
ence that didn’t include Sponge -
bob.In fifth place with a record of 
33-37-1 is sports writer Patrick “Wrong Team” Pinak, who did an absolutely horrible job of try
-
ing to jump on the Chicago Cubs' bandwagon on Thursday when he showed up to class in an Ar
-
oldis Chapman Cincinatti Reds jersey. Come on, man. That's so 2015.
In sixth place with a record of 
31-39-1 is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “Donkey Kong” Thomp
-
son, who thought a media mem -
ber was playing that game in the press box at EverBank Field last week after his phone wouldn’t stop going off for several min
-
utes. Hey Edgar, Donkey Kong first came out in 1981. Maybe use a reference all of us millenni
-
als understand.
We have a two-way tie for 
dead-ass last with a piss-poor re -
cord of 30-40-1.
First is 247Sports.com’s 
Thomas “Injury Guy” Goldkamp, the one media member who con
-
stantly asks coach Jim McElwain for an injury report, who found that the tables were turned this week when he didn’t show up to football media, presumably be
-
cause he was out with an injury. Ahh, the irony. 
Next is sports writer Jordan 
“Is That You?!” McPherson, who, upon coming into the office Thursday after shaving his beard earlier in the week, was almost unrecognizable to a sports copy editor. It’s crazy how one person can shave (pun intended) four years off their life by trimming a beard and suddenly look like a freshman again.PICKS,  from pg.13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Kevarrius Hayes dunks during practice on Thursday. Hayes has impressed coach Mike White with his physical play through preseason practices. "That's Kevarrius Hayes every day, " White said. "(That's) a microcosm of who he is. "
WEEK 10 PICKSBy Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
With Florida’s biggest game of the 
season on the line Wednesday night, 
Melanie Monteagudo stood nervous-ly at midﬁ  eld hoping the fate of the 
contest wouldn’t come down to her.
The UF forward was slated to 
shoot eighth for the Gators after their Southeastern Conference Tour-
nament quarterﬁ  nal match against 
the Missouri Tigers went to penalty 
kicks. However, neither team missed 
through the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve rounds of the 
shootout, and the weight of the situ-ation began to hit her.
“I was like, ‘Please don’t get to 
me. I’m number eight. Like, I can’t do this right now,’” Monteagudo 
said.
But she did.
Following a miss from Missouri 
one shot before her turn, Monteagu-do stepped into the penalty box and struck a perfectly placed ball past the 
goalkeeper and into the lower left 
corner of the net.
Now, No. 15 UF (13-4-1, 8-3 SEC) 
has to deal with the repercussions of that kick: a demanding and grueling battle in the conference semiﬁ  nals 
against one of the best teams in the 
country, South Carolina.
The No. 2 Gamecocks (18-0-1, 
11-0 SEC), who the Gators will face at 4:30 p.m. today, are the tourna-ment’s top seed after becoming the ﬁ  rst SEC squad to go undefeated in 
the conference regular season since Florida did in 2008.
South Carolina is the only team 
left in the NCAA without a loss on 
its record and features a lineup that is full of talent. Six of its players re-
ceived conference honors at the con-
clusion of the regular season, includ-ing ﬁ  ve being named to the All-SEC 
ﬁ  rst team.
Junior forward Savannah Mc-
Caskill led the league in goals (16) and points (40) and won the 2016 
SEC Offensive Player of the Year. Freshman goalkeeper Mikayla Krzec-
zowski was just as good, boasting a 
mere 0.43 goals-against average to ﬁ  nish sixth in the entire nation.
And standout senior defenders 
Kaleigh Kurtz and Paige Bendell lead the Gamecocks’ backline, a unit that 
helped its team ﬁ  nish sixth in the 
NCAA in goals allowed per game. Kurtz also received the SEC Defen-
sive Player of the Year.
Despite the fact UF has already 
lost to South Carolina once this sea-son — a 1-0 double overtime defeat 
in Columbia — the Gators enter to-day’s match conﬁ  dent they can snap 
the Gamecocks’ winning streak.
“I think we’re all excited to play 
them again,” sophomore midﬁ  elder Sarah Troccoli said. “It was a really 
good game in general (last time), and we’re ready.”
A video posted to FloridaGators.
com contributed to this report.
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2016
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.GAME INFO
Who:  No. 15 Florida vs. No. 2 South Carolina
What: SEC T ournament Semiﬁ  nals
Where: Orange Beach, Alabama
When:  4:30 p.m.
Watch: SEC NetworkFlorida to play in SEC 
Tournament semiﬁ  nal s
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Melanie Monteagudo dribbles during Florida’s 6-0 win over Alabama on Oct. 20 at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium. Monteagudo’s penalty shootout goal clinched Wednesday’s match against Missouri. 
