We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 137 MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
Kuistad powers Florida 
to sweep of Ole Miss
The Gators won 4-2 on Sunday, pg. 16
Students write love letters
It’s to encourage other students during ﬁ  nals week, pg. 4
Matheson Museum to expand
Construction starts in June, pg. 5Workin’ at the dog wash
Check out the mini photo story, pg. 3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
For the past three weeks, Erin Smith has 
been afraid to walk alone at night.
She’ll put away her headphones, call a 
friend and scan for strangers.
It has become a routine for the 21-year-old 
UF psychology senior ever since her sense of safety was stolen, taken by a stranger near UF’s Levin College of Law when he sexually 
assaulted her.
Now, Smith is a survivor of sexual as-
sault — one of many on UF’s campus and 
at universities across the nation. She knew, 
as many people do, that students of all rac-
es, genders and sexual orientations become survivors every semester — she just never thought she would be one.
“Everyone thinks it could never happen to 
them,” Smith said. “But the truth is, it could 
happen to anyone.”
      
Three weeks ago, it was a stranger.
But the ﬁ  rst time Smith was sexually as-
saulted at UF more than three years ago, it was at the hands of someone she knew — a predator she never expected.
While sexual assault is not a legal charge, 
it’s a term preferred by survivors and advo-cates to encompass any nonconsensual sexual physical contact as well as forced intercourse.   
In the 26 cases reported to University Po-
lice since 2006 in which the survivor gave de-tails about his or her attacker, 23 survivors were assaulted by someone they knew. Only three survivors were assaulted by a stranger, and in four additional reports, the survivor declined to give details and ﬁ  le a report.
In 90 percent of campus sexual assaults, 
the perpetrator is someone the survivor ‘It could happen to anyone’THROUGH THEIR EYES: PART ONE
SEE THROUGH THEIR EYES,  PAGES 8-9
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
CAN I HAVE YOUR AUTOGRAPH?
Johnny T ownsend, the Gators redshirt junior punter, signs Thierry Pitot’s chest after the 2016 Orange & Blue Debut in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Friday night. The 20-year-old tourism and hospitality manage-ment sophomore was part of a reported crowd of 46,000. For highlights of the game, turn to page 13.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students can relive their middle-
school music memories April 19.
We The Kings, a rock band popular-
ized in the late 2000s, will perform at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts at 8 p.m. Student Government Productions paid the band $18,500, said SGP chair-man Bobby Finigan.
Doors open at 7 p.m., he said. No 
tickets are required for admission.
“My team and I wanted to end the se-
mester with an alternative rock concert, and we believe that We The Kings is the best choice for the price in the alterna-
tive rock category,” the 21-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance senior said.
The show is open to all students and members of the general public. Up to 
1,800 people can attend, which is the 
Phillips Center’s capacity.
“I think college students will identify 
with We The Kings,” Finigan said. “They 
have some old hits out, such as ‘Check Yes Juliet’ and ‘Say You Like Me,’ but 
then they have some recent hits such as 
‘Sad Song’ and ‘Story of Tonight.’”
Alfred Tripodo, a UF mechanical en-gineering freshman, said his sister in-
troduced him to the band on a mix CD 
when he was in middle school.
“This is just bringing back good mem-
ories,” the 19-year-old said. “I feel like 
a lot of people grew up with bands like this one.” 
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org We The Kings to perform at the Phillips Center on April 19By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students sampled beet rad-
ish spring salad and other organic 
dishes at the UF Student Agricul-tural Gardens on Friday.
At the ﬁ  rst Fresh off the Farm 
event, about 300 students stopped by to plant corn, check out food preparation demonstrations put on by professional chefs and enjoy live music. 
Patrick Lynch, the president 
of Gator Gardening Club, said the event invited students to learn more about local food in a festival 
setting.  
“We want to highlight local veg-
gies, local music and local chefs,” 
the 20-year-old UF biology sopho-more said. “Veggies from our gar-den are fed to our eventgoers.”
Near a stage, attendees could 
play “vegetable Twister,” during which they would put a hand on pictures of red apples or green let-tuce as a chef demonstrated how to 
prepare organic meals.
Friends Alexis Brown and Grace 
Chun attended the festival.
Chun, 20, wore a foam hat that 
was shaped like a Gator. The UF 
psychology sophomore said she enjoyed the live music.
“It’s just a really great atmo-
sphere,” she said, adding that the 
cool weather made the event en-
joyable.
Brown, 20, said she thought the 
festival was an innovative way to teach students how to eat healthy in Gainesville.
“I liked that we were encour-
aged to eat fresh foods,” the UF sociology sophomore said. “I’m 
not a vegetarian, and I really liked 
eating it.” 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org  UF groups encourage 
students to eat healthy A look into campus survivors
Travis Clark
Lead Singer
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Misha Klein to speak in 
Judaica Suite
Author Misha Klein will offer an analysis of the varied ways in which Brazilian Jews par-
take of the pork-based nation-
al dish feijoada today at 5:30 p.m. in the Smathers Library Judaica Suite. She will discuss the creation of alternative versions with-out pork, and even fully ko-sher versions, illuminate the ways Jews in Brazil manage 
the contradictions in their 
identities and celebrate their Brazilian identity by maneu-vering around barriers to be-longing and participation.
National Public Safety 
Telecommunicators Week
In celebration of National Public 
Safety Telecommunicators 
Week, University Police will honor some of its most impor-tant and rarely seen members, police communications opera-tors. Police communications opera-tors distinguish themselves by working together to effectively care for and take care of the UF community 24/7. Through their hard work and dedication, police communica-tions operators are the first and most critical responders who support UPD by receiving emer-gency and non-emergency calls for service, obtaining mission-critical information and dis-patching law enforcement and fire rescue responders for the highest, most efficient and most effective service delivery. During this special observance, UPD extends a heartfelt thanks 
to each of the police communi-
cations operators for their com-mitment to service and safety. The critical work they do every 
day to make a difference in the 
safety of the UF community is 
immeasurable.
Association of Cuban Student 
Engineers (ACSE) general 
body elections and Cuban foodACSE will hold elections at its last general body meet-ing Tuesday at 6:15 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 0002. 
Our elections provide a lead-
ership opportunity to address infrastructure and humani-tarian needs in Cuban soci-ety through our organization. This year, UF ACSE members were the winners of the Cuba Infrastructure Challenge, re-ceiving a $6,000 grand prize and earning multiple scholar-ships in Miami. Like us on Facebook at face-book.com/ufacse. Email ques-
tions to ufacse@gmail.com. 
Become an official member at ufl.collegiatelink.net/organi-zation/CubanEngineers
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.
org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 137
HIGH  84° LOW  61°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Lindy Kopp, left, a 23-year-old UF first-year veterinary student, 
trims the nails of Zoey, a 10-year-old Great Dane, while Katherine Kratina, a 22-year-old UF first-year veterinary student, holds the 
Workin’ at the dog wash 
By Andres Leiva
Alligator Staff Photographer
On Sunday morning, Gainesville residents took their furry best friends to the UF College of Veterinary Medi-
cine for a dog wash. For $5, dog owners could have their pets bathed, and they could have their nails trimmed for $3. Proceeds benefitted a veterinary service trip to Ecuador. Below, Gainesville resident John Davidson, cen-ter, watches his wife, Kathryn Jemmott, help hold their 13-year-old mixed-breed dog, Sonny, as Casey Bragin-ton, a 23-year-old UF first-year veterinary student, rinses shampo o from the dog’s coat.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
CAMPUS
By Rachel Surette
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students wrote “Keep pushing through” 
and “Take it one day at a time” on pink, 
purple and green construction paper Fri-day.
The notes were part of Campus Cursive’s 
second love letter-writing party on Turling-ton Plaza. The UF group will pass the notes out to students during finals week.
The event was planned around finals 
week because students are more stressed and need encouragement, said Allie Seelig, 
a co-president of Campus Cursive.
They collected about 70 notes from 50 
students, about half of what they hoped 
for, due to wind, she said.
“We had a really great response and 
wanted to keep it going,” the UF biology junior said. “A lot of times people are sur-prised by what we do and find it really en-couraging to be on either end, writing or receiving the notes.”
The group decided to hold the event last 
year after a student’s suicide, the 20-year-old said. The group wanted to show UF stu-dents others cared about them.
“It can kind of be an eye-opening experi-
ence for some people to have this practice of considering other people,” Seelig said.
Regan Hamrick, a UF health science 
sophomore, said even a small dose of en-couragement will help students through the 
stress of finals week.
She wrote a letter last year and came 
back Friday.
“I just wrote ‘you’re almost there, you’re 
almost done,’ because that’s the encour-
agement I need,” the 19-year-old said.Students write love letters of encouragement for finals week
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alumni traveled back to 
Gainesville on Friday to be hon-ored at the 10th Outstanding Young Alumni Awards. 
In Emerson Hall, about 100 UF 
faculty and family watched as 21 UF alumni received awards for success in their respective fields. 
Among those honored were an 
actor from an upcoming Netflix series, a public relations man-ager for McDonald’s and a senior managing director for Teach for America. 
UF’s colleges and the Division 
of Student Affairs nominated the alumni. Last year, UF awarded about 23 alumni.
Joseph Wilson, one of two 
alumni nominated by the Division 
of Student Affairs, said the divi-
sion nominated him for his work advocating for Science, Technolo-gy, Engineering and Mathematics education in low-income commu-nities as well as partnering with LGBTQ+ organizations. 
Wilson said he was honored to 
be included with the other suc-cessful alumni. 
“I felt incredibly humbled,” 
the 31-year-old said. 
While at UF, Wilson was a 
Lombardi Scholar, a J. Wayne Re-itz Scholar and an honors ambas-
sador. He graduated from UF in 
2007 with a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering and went to 
Arizona to teach high school sci-
ence for Teach for America. 
Now, he said he directs about 
3,500 math, science and com-puter science teachers across 53 regions of the U.S. for Teach for America.     
“The experience of teaching 
really informed my life-long pas-sion of STEM education,” he said. “I wanted to be able to use engi-neering for good.” 
He said he enjoyed network-
ing with other successful alumni. Some worked with the same peo-
ple he did.
“I felt like it was two degrees of separation,”he said.
UF’s College of the Arts nomi-
nated Usman Ally, an actor who is 
currently filming a recurring role on the upcoming first season of Netflix’s “A Series of Unfortunate Events.” He has previously acted in the plays “The Jungle Book” and “The Invisible Hand,” along with playing a recurring role in 
the television show “Madam Sec-
retary” and guest roles in “Castle” and “Person of Interest.”  
Ally, who graduated from UF 
in 2007 with a master’s degree in fine arts, said coming back to UF felt like being part of a com-munity. Seeing his old professors reminded him of his college days. 
“Those are people that shape 
the beginnings of your career in some ways,” he said. “I feel very fortunate to be back.” 
While walking around UF, he 
said he wasn’t surprised to see the same scooters students used almost 10 years ago. 
“That hasn’t changed at all,” 
the 33-year-old said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org UF honors outstanding young alumni  
THEY COSTS ABOUT $20,000.
By Gabriela De Almeida
Alligator Contributing Writer
The green lawn beside the University Au-
ditorium will house three 12-foot-tall whistles.
The Periplanómenos Whistles, a series 
of outdoor musical sculptures, are being in-stalled on the east side of the auditorium. The 
Office of the Provost’s Creative Campus Com-
mittee paid about $20,000 for the sculptures through a grant, said Rotem Tamir, the artist and a visiting assistant professor of sculpture.
The sculptures are built out of virgin bald 
cypress — an extinct wood that can withstand Florida’s humidity. Tamir, an Israeli artist, will paint the wooden whistles to represent three extinct species of birds: the ivory-billed 
woodpecker, the passenger pigeon and the 
Carolina parakeet.
They went extinct around the same time as 
the virgin bald cypress swamps, she said. The whistles will each be carved out of a single trunk of the tree. To play each musical sculp-ture, students will step onto the base of the sculpture.
The sculptures are similar to oversized 
recorders, but without finger holes, she said. Two of them make a single pitch, while the third will play two pitches — one from the top half and the other from the bottom half.Students can play the third instrument by 
moving their hand over a large hole in the side, she said.
Bryan Yeager, UF’s public arts coordinator, 
said he assisted Tamir in planning the instal-lation of the sculptures. He worked with the 
UF’s Physical Plant Division and UF’s Envi-
ronmental Health and Safety Division to en-sure the artwork is safe and installed correctly.
The musical sculptures will be demonstrat-
ed April 20 at 5 p.m. by Kristen Stoner, a UF associate professor of flute, and the UF Flute Studio. Stoner said UF students will play short pieces that she composed specifically for the sculpture’s unveiling.
To create some of the pieces, Stoner said 
she drew upon nature and bird calls because of the sculpture’s bird theme.
She said she researched the bird calls of 
those species and the calls of other species that live in modern cypress swamps to incor-porate into the pieces.
Stoner said she thinks the University Audi-
torium is a perfect location for the sculptures.
“It’s a very peaceful space, and the beau-
tiful sculptural installation will fit very well there,” she said.
Tamir said she wanted to make playful 
sculptures. She started working on the instal-lations about a year ago.
“Playing is valuable in order to deeply un-
derstand something,” she said.UF gains musical sculpture s
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Hours before Friday’s Or-
ange & Blue Debut, three men 
snuck into the Gators locker room and tried to steal two jer-
seys, according to University 
Police reports.
At about 3:30 p.m. Friday, 
Jeremy Bruce Agee, 24, of Oca-
la; Stephen Paul Collazo, 35, of 
Gainesville; and Reagan Harri-son Dean, 21, of Ocala, snuck inside the locker room at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium, according 
to the reports.
Once inside, the men 
grabbed two jerseys valued at 
about $200 each, according to 
the reports. 
It is unknown how the men 
entered the area or which jer-
seys they took.
However, before they could 
escape with the souvenirs, UPD noticed the men on sur-veillance cameras and arrested 
the would-be thieves, accord-
ing to the reports.
About 20 minutes after the 
break-in, the men were in handcuffs, according to the re-
ports.
Police arrested all three on 
felony charges of burglary and 
grand theft. 
Authorities took them to the 
Alachua County Jail, where they were each released Satur-day on $10,000 bonds.
None of the men are af-
filiated with the university, 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
As of press time, the men 
could not be reached for com-ment.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgThree arrested after raiding 
Gators locker room for jerseys
Collazo
Dean
Agee
Courtesy to the Alligator
Joseph Wilson, a 2007 UF electrical engineering graduate, won an 
Outstanding Young Alumni Award on Friday for his work in advocating for Science, T echnology, Engineering and Mathematics education in low-income communities and partnering with LGBTQ+ organizations.21 alums received awardsMONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Isabel Bonnet/Alligator Staff
HOPSCOTCH GURU
Dayanis Nodarse, an 18-year-old UF sociology freshman, jumps 
while playing hopscotch at the UF Hopping 4 A Cure Hopscotch T ournament on the Broward Hall basketball courts on Sunday eve-ning. The foundation has been raising money since 2011 for the Gainesville community.
By Anayansy Hernandez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF group told first-generation 
students last week that they’re not 
alone.
UF’s First Generation Organiza-
tion finished its First Generation 
Empowerment Week on Sunday. Mi-
chelle Silva, the FGO president, said the group brought back the week to teach others about first-generation students. While they’ve held events in the past, they haven’t held a full week in a few years.
For the end of the week, the group played dodgeball and basketball Sat-urday and fed the homeless Sunday.
Before this, they painted the 34th 
Street Wall and held a carnival day.
FGO also empowered younger 
students during the week, Silva, a 22-year-old family, youth and com-munications science senior said.
Members spoke to elementary stu-
dents at Genesis Preparatory School in Gainesville, Silva said. They asked students what they wanted to be 
when they grow up and what they 
would do to get there.
They encouraged the children to 
pursue higher education in order to make their dreams a reality, Silva said.
Niko Pafundi, a UF biology fresh-
man, said the week made him proud to be a first-generation student. He said it’s harder to motivate students whose parents didn’t attend college.
He said he was motivated be-
cause he wanted to have a better fu-ture than his parents.
“It’s not something you hear 
about all the time since your parents 
cannot afford it,” the 18-year-old 
said. “I want to not be in the position my mother was in — a struggling single parent.”First-generation students empowered
By Becca White
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 50 students stopped to meditate on a red 
blanket Friday.
UF’s Meditation Club held its semesterly Meditate-
a-thon from noon to 3 p.m. on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas. The club held it later in the semester than usual to help students lower their anxiety levels before fi-nals.
During the event, students did mindfulness medi-
tation, during which they focused on breathing, said 
Saul Ramirez, a member of the club. The club wanted 
students to let distractions fade into the background.
“The end of the semester is a time of great stress 
and anxiety for students,” the 21-year-old UF philoso-phy and applied physiology and kinesiology junior said. “We want to share the stress-relieving benefits of meditation throughout the Gainesville communi-
ty.”
Raja Weise, a member of the club, handed pam-
phlets about meditating to students who passed by.
“People might find that they get distracted by 
thoughts and sounds,” the 22-year-old UF economics senior said.
Jared Davis, a UF political science sophomore, 
said he had never heard of meditation or its mental 
and physical benefits before Friday.
“I never thought much about meditation before 
talking to members of the Meditation Club,” the 
20-year-old said. “But after learning more about it, I 
definitely plan on meditating before finals.” Students meditate before finals 
CONSTRUCTION STARTS 
IN JUNE.
By Amanda DioGuardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Matheson History Museum 
is currently demolishing the former 
Melting Pot building and will start constructing a new space by June.
The space, located at 418 E. Uni-versity Ave., will serve as storage for the museum, allowing it to better care for its collections, said Rebecca Fitzsimmons, the curator and archi-vist for the museum.
“The archive and library spaces 
will be much larger and equipped with compact shelving units, which will vastly expand the available stor-age space for the growing collec-tion,” she said.A small display will showcase the 
building’s history, including stained glass windows that previously adorned The Melting Pot, she said.
“The building was originally con-
structed as the Gainesville Gospel Tabernacle Church and was later used as an antique store,” Fitzsim-mons said.
Moving the archives will clear an 
existing space, she said, which will later include extended exhibitions, an interactive area for children and a meeting hall for public use.
Fitzsimmons said the Florida De-
partment of State awarded the muse-
um a $300,000 Historic Preservation 
Grant in 2015, helping to transform the restaurant space, which had been vacant for five years.
Matthew King, a 20-year-old UF 
industrial and systems engineering sophomore, said he enjoys learning about the history of Gainesville, cit-ing “The Long Road to Freedom,” a popular exhibit that closed March 25 after the museum extended it for a 
week past its original closing date.
King said increased space for in-
formation and artifacts will encour-
age more guests to visit the museum.
“The bigger the exhibit, the more 
attention it will receive,” he said.
Matheson Museum looks forward to new layout, exhibitsHEALTHThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Hillary Clinton is the ‘safety’ presidential candidate
While Hillary Clinton seems like the 
most qualiﬁ  ed candidate, she is also the least challenging to the 
wealthy on the Democratic side 
and only comes out with progres-
sive stances when it is safe to and when the majority already supports her proposal. Clin-
ton was a no-marriage-equality pioneer, and 
while LGBTQ+ issues go beyond marriage, it’s difﬁ  cult to forget anti-marriage stances.
In contrast, Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., has a solid record 
of maintaining progressive stances. Sanders hasn’t been 
afraid to break away from the party, even when it is in-
convenient. While Clinton would contend she is simply realistic and that her failure to back Black Lives Matter was about policy, she serves her own interests.
Sanders has been rather mellow for most of this cam-
paign. Instead of going after Clinton’s many contradic-tions, he attempts conversation on the issues. Although being aggressive would probably increase votes, those aren’t the kinds of votes he is interested in. Sanders has 
made this clear after distancing himself from the so-
called “Bernie Bros.”
Many commentators, then, when comparing experi-
ence, give Clinton the win. Hardly anyone can claim to 
have as much experience as Clinton when it comes to 
working in the different branches of government. She knows how it works. But should that be the only thing taken into consideration? What if establishment-back-ing is what gives her qualiﬁ  cations in the ﬁ  rst place?
Much of her recent experience comes from backing 
the Democratic Party. After leaving the White House, Clinton served in the senate for 1.5 terms and then became secretary of state. She didn’t accomplish any 
of that by being different or bringing change — it was 
all about being safe and doing what the establishment wanted. Clinton tries to separate herself from “natural politicians” like Bill Clinton and Pres-ident Barack Obama, but whenever she does, 
her efforts ring hollow. She is trying to have it 
both ways — clearly she has experience as a politician, yet it’s not “natural” to her.
Clinton is not the average American, and I 
doubt she knows the average gas price from personal experience or remembers the last time she bought her own gallon of milk. She 
assumes whatever positions will gain her more votes and takes advantage of every break the Democratic Na-
tional Committee gives her.
In fact, she is more a natural politician than Sanders. 
Pouncing on every opportunity to criticize and under-
mine, she often forgets a simple fact check to make sure 
her jabs are accurate. She often forgets where Sand-
ers stood on the issues when it mattered, whether it’s marriage equality or, even more currently, Black Lives Matter. Rather than give protestors a voice, Clinton and her husband have attempted to silence the movement. 
Recently, Bill Clinton even insinuated the black commu-
nity wanted his crime bill that led to the imprisonment of mostly black people. He said to a Black Lives Mat-ter activist at a campaign rally, “You are defending the 
people who kill the lives you say matter. Tell the truth!”
Sanders, in an attempt to even the playing ﬁ  eld, 
questioned whether Clinton’s policy positions, like vot-
ing for the Iraq War for “disastrous trade agreements,” qualiﬁ  ed her to be president. That was a big mistake, 
according to the establishment media. While it’s OK for 
Clinton to criticize Sanders’ qualiﬁ  cation, the reverse is unacceptable. But qualiﬁ  cations have to come from somewhere.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science sophomore. Her 
column appears on Mondays.In lieu of 
losing the loo
Bathrooms: For some, they’re a sanctuary of privacy from 
incessantly annoying roommates. For others, they in-spire a frantic cleaning spree before an unexpected visit from mom and dad. But for those in the transgender community, bathrooms represent civil struggle.
On March 23, North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory signed an 
“anti-bathroom” bill blocking transgender individuals from us-ing public bathrooms that do not correspond with their biologi-cal sex. Now aside from the other discriminatory provisions of North Carolina’s bill, we at the Alligator want to highlight this speciﬁ  c bathroom position for a moment.
Overwhelmingly, though not exclusively, it’s Republican 
legislators who support “anti-bathroom” legislation. But is this issue really that conservative? 
Kaeley Triller Haver, a columnist for The Federalist, argued 
not all transgender people are predators, but the costs of not having such bathroom protections are too high: “There are countless deviant men in this world who will pretend to be transgender as a means of gaining access to the people they want to exploit, namely women and children.”
We acknowledge these concerns: The prevalence of child 
sexual abuse in our society is deplorable and must be combated. But are transgender people using the “wrong” bathrooms really 
the right targets? We hear cases of men dressing as women to 
watch, harass and violate other women in the bathroom, acts that are undeniably criminal. But this is no way equivalent to transgender bathroom usage.
The evidence speaks for itself: A comprehensive Media Mat-
ters for America study interviewed police departments and state commissions from 12 different states that prohibit transgender discrimination in public accommodations — such as bathrooms — and there were no reported cases of bathroom assaults from 
transgender people or rising sex crimes.
So then why do we see such stark opposition to transgender 
rights? Why was the North Carolina act introduced, passed and 
then signed by the governor in less than 12 hours? It’s all about politics. Plain and simple. Look no further than the Republican Gov. McCrory himself. In 2015, he vetoed a bill regarding same-sex marriage discrimination. Why is it now, in 2016, we see the sudden change of heart in McCrory? Perhaps it’s because he’s up for re-election this November and needs support from his 
voter base to clear his polling gap.
Again, we ask: Is this “anti-bathroom” position truly con-
servative? We’ve already established how party leaders priori-
tize their personal agendas. How about conservative principles, such as ﬁ  scal responsibility? 
Well, from businesses such as PayPal and Google Ventures 
threatening to cancel all new investments in North Carolina based on the new law’s discriminatory provisions, the state is projected at losing millions. How can such a policy be of the 
conservative camp when it’s entirely ﬁ  scally irresponsible?
That’s because this bathroom issue and LGBTQ+ rights 
aren’t really liberal versus conservative issues in principle. 
We’ve been sold this notion of “the PC left-wingers infringing on family values,” but at the end of the day, this issue is bipar-tisan and concerns constitutionality and civil rights. Fifty years ago, it was “those dangerous African-Americans.” Now, we’re at the next step of progress.
Before we’re Republicans or Democrats, we’re Americans, 
and it’s our duty to stand together to protect civil rights. So to transgender public accommodations discrimination, or bath-room rights, we say let transgender people have their pee in the same way everyone wants their Wi-Fi, and let the stream ﬂ  ow fast and free.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!If civility isn’t dead in 2016, it’s pretty close 
to being put in the ground.
In case you haven’t heard, the Internet 
was in a tizzy over the video of a wom-an verbally berating our governor in a 
Gainesville Starbucks.
The video’s title, “Governor Scott gets an 
earful,” is an apt description of what took place.
The video features every aspect of a truly 
great viral political disagreement: We have an embattled elected ofﬁ  cial. We have an activ-ist who is a self-described “anarchist” with an agenda — an internet debacle. Mix in a hot-but-ton issue, say “women’s reproductive rights” 
and throw in a no-no word or two, and you 
have a recipe for a trending topic.   
Before the video begins, Gov. Scott and for-
mer Lake Worth City Commissioner Cara Jen-nings were discussing a recent reproductive bill Scott signed into law.
Jennings inquired why Scott signed the bill and was offered a “typical politician reaction,” which is unsurprising be-cause Scott is, in fact, a politician.
According to The New York Daily 
News, Jennings “became enraged” 
— which is always a good way to 
engage in political debate — “when she said Planned Parenthood would suffer under the bill — and Scott told her to just stop by the county health clinic if she needed help.”
And, like in any political conversation, one 
party decided to throw a tantrum and become incredibly uncivil. 
Jennings proceeded to say, uncivilly, 
“You’re an a--hole. You don’t care about work-ing people. You should be ashamed to show your face around here.”
Additionally, Jennings also behaved rudely 
toward one of Scott’s staff members who tried to intervene. Why not? She seems very toler-ant.
Scott meekly parried Jennings’ 
verbal assault by saying he created “a million jobs.” Jennings, unde-terred, responded, “Great! Who here 
has a great job? Or is looking for-
ward to ﬁ  nishing school? You really feel like you have a job coming up?”
Scott then left the Starbucks 
without a coffee in hand.
And perhaps in an incredibly pre-
dictable and tone-deaf turn, Jennings later said people’s reactions have been generally posi-tive “because across the board people support 
Planned Parenthood” — a delusional debacle.
I felt bad for Scott because he probably deals 
with incivility like this daily. He probably has a 
tough time going out to dinner in public with his family or vacationing in the state without a Jennings trolling and antagonizing him. Is Scott supposed to stand there, take the insults and only ﬁ  ght back with “I created a million jobs”?
And I thought to myself, if President Obama 
or Bill Nelson or Debbie Wasserman Schultz — politicians I have fundamental disagree-ments with — walked into a Starbucks, would 
I scream my head off and throw sixth-grader 
insults their way? Of course not.
The political process needs dialogue, not 
shouting matches. Like so many other political stories, this one degraded what politics is sup-posed to be: a conversation about how we are to live with and beneﬁ  t one another.
If I want to watch people being uncivil, I can 
turn on the news. I don’t want to see this in my 
own backyard and feel embarrassed.
I have some choice words to say about the 
event and the players in this production, but I 
have enough self-control not to say them. Per-haps others can learn to do the same.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.
Rick Scott’s Gainesville Starbucks altercation is an embarrassmentColumn
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
knows, according to a research re-
port by the U.S. Department of Jus-
tice.
Now a student ambassador for 
UPD’s Office of Victim Services, Smith is aware of these statistics and is familiar with the typical ele-ments of assault, as well as expecta-tions of consent. But at the time, it didn’t seem real.
“For a really long time I didn’t 
actually consider that a sexual as-sault,” she said.
It would be a year before she 
could speak about the first time.
But the second time, it was a 
matter of days before Smith shared her story with her supervisor, UF victim advocate Annie Carper.
Carper helps anyone who has 
been assaulted or has been the vic-
tim of a crime. In the last year, about 
250 students have sought help from the Office of Victim Services.
The office will be hiring a third 
victim advocate in the next year to 
help more survivors.
“We know that there’s a popula-
tion of people that are not currently 
being served,” Carper said.
While in college, one in five 
women and one in 16 men are sexually assaulted, according to the National Sexual Violence Resource Center. Out of UF’s Student Body of 50,000, there are about 23,000 male and 27,000 female students: Sta-tistically, about 5,400 women and 1,400 men will have been sexually assaulted by the time they leave UF. 
But more than 90 percent of sur-
vivors on campuses throughout the U.S. will not report the assault, ac-cording to the center.
Carper said survivors can strug-
gle to grasp what they’ve been 
through.
“Especially when it’s at the 
hands of somebody you may know 
or have previously cared about,” she said.
•   •   •
Very few people believed Twi 
Hall.
Hall, whose pronouns are they 
and them, said they were abused for a year by a female friend, often on the Plaza of the Americas.
But because Hall’s assigned birth 
gender is male, few believed them.
According to a national report 
conducted by the White House, 46 percent of bisexual women have been sexually assaulted, compared to 17 percent of heterosexual wom-en and 13 percent of lesbians.
About 12 percent of gay and 13 
percent of bisexual men are sexu-ally assaulted, according to the re-port. More than 25 percent of trans-gender people become survivors of sexual assault after they turn 13, according to the report.
The mental and physical abuse 
still haunts Hall eight years later: anxiety perpetuated by others’ re-fusal to acknowledge their attack.
“Very few people believed me,” 
the 26-year-old said. “Most of the people who did believe me didn’t think it mattered or that it was a big deal. It’s impossible to escape the part that gender plays in what happens when someone assigned female assaults and abuses some-one assigned male.”
•   •   •
There is no stereotype for a per-
son who commits sexual assault.
“It’s far less about demograph-
ics, whether it’s fraternity males 
or upper-class individuals,” Carper 
said. “It’s much more a pattern of 
behavior.”
When sexual abuse happens 
within relationships, it’s about power, Carper said. 
For perpetrators who are in re-
lationships with those they abuse, 
this involves intimidation and 
threats of physical and economic 
violence, and it has negative affects 
on their partner’s other relation-
ships and academic life.
“Physical violence, sexual vio-
lence and abuse of all kinds is not actually about the sex,” she said. 
“It’s not actually about hitting 
somebody. It’s absolutely about 
what maintains power and control.”
Hall said the relationship with 
their attacker was not a romance, but a nightmare.
“For the life of me, I actually 
can’t tell if she likes sex or not,” 
Hall said. “I think it was about 
power.”
And often, Carper said, one 
forced act of dominance isn’t 
enough.
More than half of perpetrators 
will commit 5.8 rapes on average, according to a study done by David 
Lisak, a nationally recognized fo-
rensic consultant and former associ-ate psychology professor at the Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Boston.
“It’s a far smaller population 
committing a far larger number of 
acts of sexual battery rather than a bunch of people just making a ran-
dom mistake,” Carper said.
•   •   •
For Carper, the attacks on her 
clients are never random.
“Thematically, it’s absolutely a 
very strategic, malicious act,” she 
said.
Those malicious acts still haunt 
Hall and still cripple Smith’s self-described badass persona. 
But with each day, they are get-
ting better, stronger and sharing their stories.
“They don’t define me,” Smith 
said. “And I’m not going to let them.”
Editor’s note: This is part one of 
an ongoing series on sexual assault survivors. See Tuesday’s paper for more profiles on survivors.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgTHROUGH THEIR EYES,
 from pg 1More than 90 percent of campus survivors will not report the assault
In the past 10 years at UF, there have been
30 DOCUMENTED CASES OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
         
                  
20 out of 30 cases happened on campusDocumented with University Police, according to public records
According to the National Sexual Violence Resource CenterWHILE IN COLLEGE … 
One in five women are sexually assaulted.
One in sixteen men are sexually assaulted.
Statistically, out of the current UF Student Body, 
this number of men and women will have been 
sexually assaulted by the time they leave UF.
5,400 
WOMEN1,400 
MENMONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
17 percent
13 percent
46 percentSEXUAL ASSAULT STATISTICSWHO TO CONTACT
Victims Advocate
A Victims Advocate is available 
24 hours a day by calling UPD’s 
Dispatch Center at 352-392-1111. During business hours, Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Ad-vocates can be contacted directly at 352-392-5648. You can email Vic-tim Advocates at annekcarper@ufl.edu and nphineas@ufl.edu 
U Matter We Care 
You can confidentially and 
anonymously reach out to the Dean of Student’s Office U Matter We Care team about students who may need help at umatter@ufl.edu
STRIVE
STRIVE peer educators are 
available to hold open nonjudg-mental forums for discussion of issues related to sexual violence.  You can contact them at 352-392-1575 or visit their website at gator-well.ufsa.ufl.edu/strive.
UF LGBT Affairs
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender (LGBT) Affairs pro-vides education, advocacy, and support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and straight-allied students, staff, and faculty at the University of Florida. You can reach the Univer-sity of Florida LGBT Office at 352-392-1261 or email lbh@multicul-tural.ufl.edu. 
Medical Care
The University of Florida Stu-
dent Health Care Center leads, col-laborates, and excels in the provi-sion of comprehensive services through wellness promotion and compassionate and accessible care. The Student Health Care Center also has a Women’s Health Care Clinic that is a nurse practitioner-run clinic with a female focus. The clinic includes but is not limited to services such as counseling on con-traceptive options, sexually trans-mitted disease/infection (STD/STI) prevention, sexuality and other women’s health, screening, diag-nosis and treatment of STDs/STIs, breast exams and instruction in self-examination, pap smears and routine pelvic exams, and pregnan-cy testing.
Counseling Services
The University of Florida Coun-
seling and Wellness Center has professional counselors and thera-pists on staff and offers individual or group counseling dealing with any form of sexual exploitation or other issues related to victimiza-tion. All counseling services are free and confidential. The center has an excellent referral system should your needs be better met by a different agency or program. You can reach the University of Florida Counseling and Wellness Center at:
3190 Radio Road(352) 392-1575www.counsel.ufl.edu/cwc Percentages of people who have been sexually assaulted:
HETEROSEXUAL WOMEN
LESBIAN WOMEN
BISEXUAL WOMEN
In 90 percent of campus sexual assaults, the 
perpetrator is someone the survivor knows, according 
to a research report by the U.S. Department of Justice.
50%More thanof perpetrators will commit 5.8 rapes 
on average, according to a study.
According  to “Repeat Rape and Multiple Offending Among Undetected Rapists” by David Lisak13 percent BISEXUAL MEN
GAY MEN
* TRANSGENDER PEOPLE
*Over the age of 1325 percent12 percent1.6 percent HETEROSEXUAL MEN
Female survivors who report to law enforcement
Female nonstudent survivors ages 18 to 24 Female student survivors ages 18 to 24According  to the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network
20% 33%MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Home for the Outdoor Enthusiast!
10 min drive from UF, 3/2, 1891 sf, $235,000, 
photos can be seen at http://9215cr2082.
canbyours.com/. Call Mike, 352,665-0073   
4-13-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Front Office Assistant for busy Dermatology practice in Gainesville. 3-4 days/week.  Duties include scheduling appointments, checking patients in and out, coding and posting charges, collecting payments, an-swering phones and other duties.  Looking for a professional individual with good com-puter and interpersonal skills. Experience in a medical office desired, but willing to train motivated individual. Ideal position for recent graduate or student interested in healthcare business career.  Salary with benefits avail -
able. Send cover letter and resume to daop -
portunity@aol.com    4-11-16-5-14
PART TIME BABYSITTER WANTED FOR SUMMER, can continue in fall if interested. For kids ages 7-13. $12/hr.Experience required. Email resume andreferences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    4-11-16-3-14
Work at One of the Top
25 Small Companies in
An opportunity to help others
unleash their fullest potential
with a GHF membership.
Full job description at ghfc.com/application
Now Hiring
Full-time, Part-time Employment & Internships
4-11-16-2-14
Camp Counselor. Looking to provide a safe, nurturing, and fun environment for girls? Ideal applicants are available M-F, have large group experience and a willingness to grow in an active environment. Visit www.girlsplace.net to apply.       4-14-16-5-14
GENERAL OFC ASSISTANT.Pleasant home office and atmosphere. 10-15 hrs/week. Schedule flexible. $15 per hour. Required: proficiency in Excel and Word. Also required: serious attitude and reliabil -
ity. Resumes to wooten.leslie@gmail.com.    4-13-16-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing 
responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email 
cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-
ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-15-10-14
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Want to Earn Some Extra $$$
Kelly Services is looking for individuals to 
work a 10 day project April 19-28th as couri -
ers/messengers in a hospital setting. Day, 
Evening and Overnight shifts are available 
starting at $10/HR. Apply online at http://qrs.
ly/gt52jb2 or call 352-335-7800 TODAY!   
 4-13-7-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 EntertainmentRoland Thornqvist and the 
Florida women's tennis team defeated Auburn on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 15.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Danny Willett wins 2016 Masters 
Englishman Danny Willett won his ﬁ  rst Masters T ournament in his second 
try on Sunday. Willett ﬁ  nished at 5-under par, defeating Jordan Spieth and Lee Westwood by three shots. QUESTIONS ANSWERED
With the 
Spring  game ﬁ  -
nally in 
the rear-
view mirror, Florida coach Jim McElwain 
was able to assess 
his team's progress and evaluate each position, as well as determine who the starting quarterback 
should be.
But here are ﬁ  ve more things 
we learned during the Spring 
game. 
1. Odell Kickem not just a 
YouTube sensation
The second biggest storyline 
entering the spring, behind the starting quarterback battle, was whether or not Eddy Pineiro 
would live up to the 
hype.
Not only had he 
not kicked a ﬁ  eld 
goal at the high 
school or junior col-lege levels, but Pin-
eiro was also known more for his YouTube videos, kicking the ball 
with no pressure.
He lived up to his billing and 
then some on Friday night.
Pineiro went 3-of-5 on his 
ﬁ  eld goal attempts and converted 
all of his extra points, inciting roars from the crowd. He was Five things we learned 
from Spring footballBASEBALL
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
Deacon Liput stepped up to the plate 
with two outs in the bottom of the ninth 
inning.
Peter Alonso had just given the Gators a 
glimmer of hope after blasting a solo home 
run to left-center ﬁ  eld, cutting Mississippi 
State’s lead to 2-1. 
It was on Liput to keep Florida’s rally 
going.
MSU’s Reid Humphreys didn’t let it 
happen.
Humphreys blew a pitch past a swing-
ing Liput on an 0-2 count, and the No. 5 Bulldogs hung on to take the weekend se-ries from the No. 1 Gators.
Sunday marked Florida’s ﬁ  rst home 
series loss since dropping two of three at home versus Kentucky from April 24-26, 2015.
“We just got beat twice in a row against 
a team that didn’t make a whole lot of mis-takes,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’s really that simple.”
Florida reliever Shaun Anderson en-
tered in the seventh inning with runners on second and third and no outs. Anderson 
immediately walked Jake Mangum — his 
ﬁ  rst walk allowed all season — and gave up a RBI single to Elih Marrero, doubling the Bulldogs’ lead to 2-0.
Anderson settled down, getting out of 
the bases-loaded jam and retiring the ﬁ  nal nine batters he faced.
“I really wanted to win this game. I 
wanted to win this series,” said Anderson, 
who had six strikeouts in three innings of 
work. “I just wanted to keep it as close as possible and then hopefully we would come up with a big hit.”
The big hit never came. Florida (29-5, 
8-4 Southeastern Conference) left 13 men on base, one shy of its season high, and was just 2-for-10 with runners in scoring position.
After recording a dozen hits in six-
straight contests, Florida’s offense mus-tered just six on Sunday.
“We left a lot of guys on base that we 
should’ve came up and gotten in,” Alonso said. “It is what it is."
The Bulldogs (23-9-1, 8-4 SEC) held 
their lead with timely pitching from its bullpen.
Junior right-hander Zac Houston gave 
up just one hit over 3.1 innings to earn his second win of the season.
Dane Dunning (2-2), starting in place of 
A.J. Puk — who was held out as he contin-ues to recover from back spasms — picked 
up the loss after throwing ﬁ  ve innings and 
allowing one run.
“Is it disappointing? Yes,” O’Sullivan 
said. “But at the end of the day, this week-end is not going to deﬁ  ne us."
 @LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.orgGators drop  
weekend series
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14By Ian Cohen 
and Ethan Bauer
Sports Writers
Luke Del Rio’s second play 
from scrimmage resulted in a 
twisting, contorting connection 
to receiver C.J. Worton, who 
caught the pass along the right sideline for a 46-yard gain.
Two plays later, Florida’s of-
fense found the endzone.
A 14-yard pass to tight end De-
Andre Goolsby capped the Blue team’s 75-yard opening drive in Florida’s annual Spring game on 
Friday night, and it may have 
answered questions surrounding UF’s quarterback battle.
“It’s an open competition,” 
Del Rio said after the game. “Whether coach Mac says I have a slight lead or not, that doesn’t change how I work, how I study, 
how I prepare.”
The redshirt sophomore start-
ed at quarterback for the Blue 
team and was the clear standout among the group, going 10-for-
11 for 176 yards and two touch-
downs.
“(He) did a good job at letting 
the game come to him,” McEl-
wain said of Del Rio. “It’s amaz-
ing what happens when you throw it to the open guy.”
Of the remaining quarter-
backs, two had productive de-
buts. Graduate transfer Austin 
Appleby went 8-for-11 for 80 yards while splitting time be-Del Rio, Pineiro 
impressive in UF debutsTORRES TELLS IT
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIIIAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio drops back to pass during the Orange and Blue Debut on Friday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Del Rio started the game 
for the Blue team and has  a "leg up" in UF's four-man quarterback competition, according to coach Jim McElwain. 14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
tween both the Orange and Blue teams, and 
freshman Kyle Trask threw for 63 yards on 4-for-7 passing for the Orange.
Meanwhile, freshman Feleipe Franks strug-
gled. His ﬁ  rst three plays in a Florida uniform included a Keivonnis Davis sack and a Duke Dawson interception.
Of Franks’ ﬁ  rst three passes, two of them 
were picks.
“Feleipe got a little confused on what color 
jersey he was throwing to a couple times, but you know what, that’s gonna happen,” McEl-wain said. “That’s all part of learning.”
Pineiro impresses with leg strength:Before Friday, Eddy Pineiro had never 
kicked a ﬁ  eld goal in front of a crowd. 
That changed with 3:45 to play in the ﬁ  rst 
quarter of the Orange and Blue Debut.
Kicking for the Orange team, he lined up 
from the left hash of the Blue team’s 42 yard line — a 52-yard attempt. He took four steps back before pausing to spread his arms and 
align his kick. 
Two steps to his left, and it was time. 
His foot met the ball, the ball met the cen-
ter of the net and the crowd — about half a stadium strong — erupted as loud as it would 
all game long. 
“It was a little bit of a relief, even for us as a 
staff,” coach Jim McElwain said. “We wanted to see how he would do in the stadium and 
that kind of thing and I thought he answered the bell pretty darn good.”
But while his ﬁ  rst ﬁ  eld goal established his leg strength, a miss from 54 yards later in the game revealed his true potential.
“I didn’t let it get to my head,” Pineiro said. 
“... I keep it positive all the time. Whether I make it or I miss it, I’m positive 100 percent.”
He proceeded to come out and knock 
through his next attempt — a 56-yarder.
All three of Pineiro's kicks came from a 
longer range than UF’s 2015 season best of 43 yards.
But his ﬁ  eld-goal kicking wasn’t the only 
thing he did to get the spectators excited. 
Pineiro was also 5-for-5 on extra points and 
had nine of his 10 kickoffs go for touchbacks.
Pineiro’s ﬁ  rst extra point sailed into the 
second deck of the south endzone bleachers to more thunderous applause from fans.
That level of fan enthusiasm for a kicker is 
rare — especially for one who was playing in his ﬁ  rst collegiate scrimmage. 
“We really got excited when he put his 
helmet on correctly. That was pretty cool,” 
McElwain said of Pineiro’s lack of experience. 
“And then he got it buckled, and that was even better.”
But despite the pressures presented by 
playing in a major college environment and his lack of familiarity with the sport, Pineiro remained focused on the task at hand: putting the ball between the uprights. 
“I don’t know too much about football,” 
Pineiro said. “I just kick the ball and it goes in.”
@icohenb, @ebaueri
icohen@alligator.org
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 13Pineiro's ield goals were all longer than Florida's 2015 season bestalso kicking in windy conditions, an element McElwain was happy to see Pineiro thrive in. 
“The wind was swirling down 
there, and just to see him kind of navigate that, because most of his YouTube videos are in perfect 
weather,” McElwain said. “So it was 
good to see him have some wind in 
there.”
McElwain added that Pineiro still 
has to work on his timing, but he 
has to be happy to see that Pineiro passed his ﬁ  rst test. 
2. Kylan Johnson shines 
The most surprising player dur-ing the game was redshirt fresh-
man linebacker Kylan Johnson. He looked comfortable playing next to 
Jarrad Davis, and was all over the 
ﬁ  eld and around the ball. 
He ﬁ  nished the scrimmage with 
a team-high eight tackles, including six solo stops, along with an inter-
ception and a quarterback hurry.
Not bad for a converted safety 
who missed last season with an an-
kle injury. 
Johnson made the most of se-
nior linebacker Alex Anzalone being held to no-contact drills during the spring, and he should ﬁ  gure to be a key player in the fall. 
3. Feleipe Franks should red-
shirtEveryone saw how much Feleipe 
Franks struggled. The 4-star recruit out of Crawfordville threw three in-
terceptions and didn’t look comfort-
able until the ﬁ  nal drive of the game. 
He ended his night with a touch-
down pass to tight end C’yontai Lewis, but he wasn’t in any kind of 
rhythm beforehand. For those of you 
who thought he would be the start-ing quarterback when the season started, forget about it. 
And then there was Kyle Trask 
— the other freshman quarterback who no one talked about before the Spring game — who turned in a bet-ter performance.
McElwain has no choice but to 
redshirt Franks. He has all the physi-cal intangibles, but a year sitting out and learning the offense will do him wonders. 
4. Duke Dawson will ﬁ  ll Brian 
Poole’s void
Brian Poole wasn’t talked about 
too much last year, and that was a shame. Poole was as reliable as they 
came at the nickel back position. 
Enter Duke Dawson. 
The junior had two interceptions, 
both off of Franks, and returned one 
of them for a touchdown. He baited 
Franks on the ﬁ  rst one, letting the wide receiver slip by him before he picked off Franks’ pass. Dawson looks poised to take the next step in his de-
velopment and could be a big-time 
contributor when the season starts on Sept. 3 against Massachusetts. 
5. Pass protection still needs 
work
Florida’s offensive line has more 
bodies this spring, but there were still times on Friday when the line looked a little shaky in pass protection.
Granted, the Gators’ defensive line 
will once again be one of the best in the country this year with the mon-sters they have up front, but if the Gators can’t protect the quarterback, 
they can kiss any chance of going back 
to the Southeastern Conference Cham-pionship goodbye.
Luis Torres is the alligator.org edi-
tor. You can contact him at ltorres@
alligator.org and you can follow him 
on Twitter @LFTorresIII. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eddy Pineiro kicks off during the Orange and Blue Debut on Friday at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. 
COLUMN,  from pg 13MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
SENIOR DIEGO HIDALGO 
CLINCHED THE MATCH. 
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team hasn’t 
flinched in recent years when taking on South 
Carolina. 
Since 2002, UF has dominated the Game-
cocks, winning 17 of the last 18 matchups be-
fore Sunday.
That trend continued for the Gators, as 
No. 14 Florida (13-6, 8-2 Southeastern Confer-
ence) handily defeated South Carolina (11-13, 3-7 SEC) 6-1 at the Carolina Tennis Center.
“I am really proud of our guys today,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said in a release. “I love how our team bounced back strong and showed a great deal of resilience. The match 
was a great win for our team.” 
After losing back-to-back contests against 
Virginia and Georgia earlier last week, UF 
responded on Sunday by winning 14 out of 16 total singles and doubles sets to give Flor-ida its first five-point victory since March 20 against Ole Miss.
“It started with a productive practice (Sat-
urday) with purpose and energy,” Shelton 
said. “We will continue to stay the course and 
do the right thing no matter the score or result, and that will continue to grow our program.”
UF’s senior co-captain Diego Hidalgo con-
tinued his stellar play, knocking off Gabriel Friedrich 6-4, 7-5 to clinch the match for the Gators. Hidalgo is now 10-2 in singles play since Feb. 27.
Sophomore Jordan Belga made his first 
appearance for Florida in over two months, besting Wood Benton by a score of 4-6, 6-4, 6-0. Belga played in place of freshman Mc-Clain Kessler, who missed his second-straight match with a lower body injury.
Junior co-captain Elliott Orkin, sophomore 
Chase Perez-Blanco and freshman Alfredo 
Perez rounded out UF’s wins in singles, with 
each player beating his opponent in straight sets. Orkin had lost his previous three singles matches entering Sunday, while Perez-Blanco 
and Perez had dropped their previous two.
The Gators were just as 
impressive in doubles com-petition, where Orkin and 
junior Maxx Lipman set the 
tone early with a 6-1 vic-tory over Alex Fennell and 
Sam Swank.
Perez and Perez-Blanco 
would then seal the doubles point for Florida, taking their set 6-4 against Benton and An-drew Schafer for the duo’s eighth win this spring.
Sunday’s victory barely kept UF’s regular 
season SEC championship aspirations afloat. The Gators are two matches behind Georgia in the conference standings with two contests remaining on the schedule for both teams.
“We have got to get back home and get 
better this week,” Shelton said. 
“We are looking forward to the challenges 
ahead.”
The Gators will host Kentucky on April 15 
and Tennessee on April 17, while the Bulldogs will be on the road at Arkansas on April 15 and Ole Miss on April 17.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMen rebound from Friday loss
THE GATORS HAVE TWO 
CONFERENCE MATCHES LEFT. 
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
During Southeastern Conference play, 
No. 6 Florida has been dominant in singles  
matches.
After a strong showing at No. 13 Auburn 
on Sunday, the bottom of Florida’s lineup has gone 27-1 in SEC singles play. The last three courts have seen clinches, sweeps and perfect 
sets in 11 SEC games this season.
And Sunday’s matchup was no different.
With all three wins coming from courts 
four, five and six, the Gators (16-2, 11-0 SEC) defeated the Tigers (20-5, 8-3 SEC) 4-0 at the 
Yarbrough Tennis Center.
Only two dual matches stand in the way 
of a perfect SEC record.
“We played really well. It was a fighting 
match in doubles,” coach Roland Thornqvist 
said in a release. “The No. 2 doubles were flawless today and then we had to dig out of a little bit of a hole at No. 1 doubles. They played really well at the end.” 
Behind a strong performance in doubles 
from the No. 31 pair of Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock, the Gators got on the board early.
Kuhlman and Woolcock defeated Paula de 
Man and Caroline Turner 6-2.
With the other two matches tied at 6-6, the 
doubles point could have flipped either way.
But No. 7 Brooke Austin and Kourtney Keegan would clinch the doubles point for Florida with a close 7-6 victory.
While it came down to one point in dou-
bles, singles play was a different story.
No. 47 Keegan was off the courts first with 
a 6-1, 6-1 win over Alannah Griffin to put Florida ahead by two.
No. 109 Kuhlman took down Auburn’s de 
Man 6-4, 6-1 to put the Gators within striking 
distance of clinching the match.
And No. 70 Anna Dani-
lina would gain the final 
point for UF with a 6-3, 6-2 
victory over Turner to give Florida the sweep.
Strong singles play at 
the end of the regular sea-
son is exactly where the Gators want to be. 
On top of their ability to gain the doubles 
point, having a deep lineup that remains con-sistent against any opponent will prove cru-
cial come time for the postseason.
“Overall in singles, we played really well. 
It is always nice to see the one player off the 
court super quick and from start to finish, 
Kourtney was clinical today,” Thornqvist 
said. “We feel really good about this week-end and we feel like we are getting stronger.”
The Gators finish off the regular season 
next weekend against No. 4 Georgia on Fri-
day and Tennessee on Sunday.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgWomen stay undefeated in SECFlorida tennis teams win on the road
Thornqvist
Hidalgo
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
At times this season, the 
Gators’ offense has sputtered 
while trying to match the prowess of its pitching and defense. 
Florida has consistently held 
opponents to few runs, but has not always scored enough to capi-talize. 
That changed this weekend. Powered by an early two-run 
home run by Amanda Lorenz and a solo shot from Kayli Kvistad in the seventh inning, No. 2 Florida (38-3, 12-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) ﬁ  nalized its sweep of Mis-
sissippi (28-13, 4-8 SEC) with a 4-2 victory on Sunday afternoon in Oxford. 
UF scored 18 runs in three 
games against Ole Miss, the team’s highest output since last 
month’s series against Auburn.
“It was nice to see the middle 
of our lineup make some adjust-
ments and do a good job for us today, and this whole weekend,” coach Tim Walton said in a re-lease.
“They both delivered in the 
clutch this weekend.”
The trio of Lorenz, Kvistad 
and catcher Aubree Munro went a combined 14-for-26 — a .538 average — slugged six home runs and drove in 11 in the series. 
To complement their recent 
offensive surge, the Gators’ pitch-ing was predictably stiﬂ  ing. The unit allowed only three runs in the series, and the ﬁ  rst earned run didn’t come until the ﬁ  fth in-ning of the ﬁ  nal game. 
Kelly Barnhill started the game 
for Florida and was effectively wild, allowing one run on two hits while walking ﬁ  ve and strik-ing out nine over 4.1 innings. 
“Kelly didn’t have her best 
stuff, but she had a ton of strike-outs and a lot of swing and miss-es,” Walton said.
“Sometimes that’s going to be 
the case.”
After getting into trouble in the 
fourth by walking the bases load-ed, the freshman struck out a pair of hitters to preserve the lead. 
She was then relieved in the 
ﬁ  fth by sophomore Aleshia Oca-sio. 
Ocasio, though not overpower-
ing like Barnhill, settled into the game nicely, with the only blem-ish on her performance coming from a solo home run allowed in the bottom of the seventh. 
The sophomore righty struck 
out two over 2.2 innings and earned her ﬁ  fth save. 
With the sweep, Florida re-
gained its place atop of the con-ference standings. 
And after dropping its ﬁ  rst 
series last weekend against Ala-bama, Florida has won four straight and has momentum as it prepares to face rival Florida State Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Gainesville. 
“Overall, I thought we made 
some nice defensive plays,” Wal-ton said. “We were able to stay poised and make some nice plays all weekend.
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.org Lorenz, Kvistad power Florida to sweep of Ole Miss
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz stands in the batter’s box during Florida’s 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
Both hit homers in Sunday’s inale