We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 78 MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
Gators keeping games close 
despite poor shooting 
UF shoots an SEC-worst 41.4 percent, pg. 14
These are the droids you’re looking for
UF engineering students help high school students 
build robots, pg. 5
UF organizations celebrate diversity week
The organizations have been planning since October, pg. 8911 report
Crime roundup of robbery, meth, a DUI and marijuana, pg. 3
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
A judge sentenced Gainesville resident 
Mikel Craig to 25 years in federal prison 
Thursday after authorities said he trafﬁ  cked a woman for the purpose of sex. 
Craig used threats and physical violence 
to control the woman, whom he advertised on backpage.com under “escort services.”
Today, the country recognizes such cases 
during National Human Trafﬁ  cking Aware-ness Day. 
Marie Samec, the vice president of the 
Alachua County Coalition Against Human Trafﬁ  cking, said human trafﬁ  cking is a form of modern-day slavery.
“All kinds of human trafﬁ  cking basically 
center on exploitation,” Samec said. “If it’s an adult, they involve force or fraud or coer-cion to control their victims.”
In October, police charged Gainesville 
residents Michael Hayes, Ranell Carter Jr. and Tawanda Burkett after authorities said they sex trafﬁ  cked a 15-year-old girl, accord-ing to court records.
They forced the girl to use drugs and 
have sex with approximately 10 men over the course of about one month, according to the records.
“Most of them, at least in these local 
cases, are put on drugs so that they form an addiction as a way of controlling them,” Samec said.
Florida has the highest number of human 
trafﬁ  cking victims in the U.S., according to the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce. 
Last year, the National Human Trafﬁ  ck-ing Center hotline received 1,145 calls from the state of Florida — a small fraction of overall cases according to the center’s web-site.
At an annual task force meeting Tuesday, 
John Kerry, the U.S. secretary of state, said only about 1 percent of the 20 million people who are enslaved are identiﬁ  ed on an an-nual basis. 
Carla Coultas, the creator of Wardrobe by 
Carla Coultas, spreads awareness with her annual Fashion for Freedom charity event.
“I think there are a lot of ways that you can get involved in Gainesville,” she said. “It’s one of those things that one person can make a really big difference.” 
The third annual show is being held at 
Loosey’s Downtown on Sunday at 7 p.m. Entry is $7 and all proceeds go toward Proj-ect Rescue, Coultas said. 
“I wanted to bring attention to my brand, 
obviously, but I was really excited to real-ize that I had a tool to now bring attention to helping to liberate women and children also,” she said.
Samec said trafﬁ  ckers often take the vic-
tim’s identiﬁ  cation, controlling both their mental and physical freedom. In hopes of liberating them, she said, people can volun-teer or donate to local agencies.
When suspicious of an immediate threat, 
Samec urged people to call 911.
“Otherwise, the national hotline at 1-888-
373-7888 is the best source if they have any suspicions or need help,” she said.
Modern-day slavery: human traﬃ   cking
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
NEON NIGHTS 
Zackery Bobb, a 19-year-old UF chemical engineering freshman, slides a disc across a glowing shuffleboard in the Reitz Union 
during GatorNights on Friday. Bobb said his friends convinced him to go. LOCAL
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Dalton King began working at 
Lucky’s Market in August — a job 
he came to love. About four months later, the store celebrated its one-year anniversary. 
“Every day I work is the best 
day,” King, 21, said. “I usually work in the bulk department, but lately they’ve been moving me around to other sections, which is really cool.”
Between training among the dif-
ferent departments, King said his job is rarely boring. 
“I’m always learning something 
new,” he said. 
Store director Robert Knaus said 
Lucky’s Market opened its doors in Gainesville on Jan. 6, 2015, at 1459 NW 23rd Ave. He transferred from a Louisville, Kentucky, location in April.
This weekend, he was glad 
to be enjoying the celebration in Lucky’s 
celebrates one year in Gainesville
SEE LUCKY’S,  PAGE 9
It’s the national awareness day
“All kinds of human traicking 
basically center on exploitation. If it’s 
an adult, they involve force or fraud or 
coercion to control their victims.”
Marie Samec
vice president of the Alachua County 
Coalition Against Human TraffickingSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Kathleen Benson: Writing 
African- American Children’s 
Literature
Award- winning children’s 
literature author Kathleen Benson will discuss her latest work, “Draw What You See,” 
a book on the life and art of 
Benny Andrews, and Benson’s long career writing African-American children’s literature and history Wednesday at 4 
p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 
100. Andrews was a noted African -American painter who interpreted suffering and in-
justice, such as the Holocaust, 
Native American forced migra-tion and Hurricane Katrina, in his creative works. Benson will discuss her collaborations with 
Andrews and their work in so-
cial justice. The talk is part of the Baldwin Library Speaker Series.
The Jews of Mexico: History, 
Culture and LibrariesEnrique Chmelnik Lubinsky, the director of the Center of 
Documentation and Research 
for the Jewish Communities in Mexico, will speak Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in the Judaica 
Suite inside the Grand Reading 
Room on the second floor of Smathers Library. The talk is sponsored by the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica, 
the Latin American and 
Caribbean Collection of the George A. Smathers Libraries, the Center for Latin American 
Studies, the Alexander Grass 
Chair in Jewish Studies, the Center for Jewish Studies Gary Gerson Lecture Series and the National Endowment for the 
Humanities.
Club Creole Spring Week
From the Konpa to the RaRa to the Yanvalou. From the Mardi 
Gras to the Kanaval and kara-bela dresses. There is Citadelle Laferrière, Sans -Souci Palace, art and more. Club Creole is 
having its annual Spring Week 
from Sunday to Jan. 24. Come out and enjoy a variety of events showcasing the Haitian 
culture. There will be plenty of 
free food, fun and great com-pany.
Toastmasters meets Tuesdays 
at UFTalking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 
5:45 p.m. in the Entomology 
Building (970 Natural Area Drive), Room 1031. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters’ excellent 
program of public speaking 
and leadership.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your friends to its lessons and dances twice a week on Mondays and Fridays. They have free lessons for beginners 
and intermediates, and they 
are open to everyone. On Monday nights, the club is at the Reitz Union Breezeway with lessons 
from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social 
dancing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. On Friday nights, they are at the Unified Training Center, situated at 809 W . University Ave., with 
lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and 
social dancing from 9 p.m. to mid-night. If you have any questions or would like to get involved, please 
find them on Facebook at face-
book.com/groups/FLSDC. They hope to dance with you all soon.
Florida Museum closed today, 
Tuesday and Feb. 22- 24The Florida Museum of Natural History, including the Butterfly Rainforest exhibit, will be closed 
today, Tuesday and Feb. 22 -24 
for preventative fumigation to protect its Lepidoptera collec-
tions and library resources. Volunteer orientation, sched-
uled for Wednesday, will con-
tinue as planned. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for updates, or call Paul Ramey at 352 -213 -
0999 for more information.
Join us for UF’s second 
PechaKucha X Fulbright 
20x20 event!
PechaKucha 20x20 is a simple 
presentation format in which 20 slides are shown for 20 sec-onds each (presentations are 
seven minutes long). It will 
be held Jan. 26 at 5:30 p.m. at the UF International Center. Presentations include “New Models for Ceramics: Recent 
Work” by Anna Calluori 
Holcombe from the UF School of Art + Art History; “The Mathematics of Organized 
Ant Behavior” by Jason R. 
Picardo from the UF depart-ment of chemical engineering; and “More than Two Centuries Vaccinating: Recent Advances on Vaccine Development” by 
Diana P. Rojas from the UF de-
partment of epidemiology. For more information, please con-tact Professor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Free English and citizenship 
classes offered to communityAt the Millhopper Library, 
starting Jan. 26, free English 
classes will be offered every Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Starting Feb. 4, citizen-ship classes will be held ev-
ery Thursday from 6 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. For more info, email info@latinawomensleague.org or visit latinawomensleague.
org.
Learn about Florida Museum 
volunteer opportunities 
Wednesday
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is holding an orienta-tion for adults interested in learning more about volun-
teering. The presentation is 
Wednesday from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and will help partici-pants identify the best match for their interests and abilities. 
Volunteers serve as exhibit 
guides to school groups and other museum visitors or work in the collections and research 
departments. Pre registration is 
required, and volunteers must be 18 years or older. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/volunteers or call 352- 273- 
2055.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 
5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events, and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 78
HIGH  55° LOW  32°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Police arrest man for DUI, hit 
and run
Florida Highway Patrol arrested an Ar-
cher man Saturday night after police said 
he drunkenly crashed into the back of a truck and left the scene.
At about 8 p.m., Douglas John Carr, 54, 
drove his car into the back of a stopped Chevrolet Suburban at the intersection of State Road 24 and Southwest 143rd Street, according to a report.
The driver of the Suburban said she 
was waiting to turn left when she saw a vehicle speeding toward her, according to the report.
Carr attempted to avoid the truck but 
crashed into the right side of its bumper, according to the report.
Moments later, a white pickup truck 
stopped next to Carr’s vehicle and asked if he and his passenger needed help. Carr and his friend then stepped into the truck and rode away, according to the report.
Officers with the Alachua County Sher-
iff’s Office tracked down the truck and brought the passengers back to the crash scene for questioning, according to the re-port.
Carr could not keep his balance and 
smelled of alcohol. Carr said he had a few drinks earlier in the day, but he refused to blow into a breathalyzer, according to the report.
Police arrested Carr on charges of hit 
and run, driving without a license and driv-ing under the influence with property dam-age. Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he remains, as of press 
time, in lieu of a $21,500 bond.
- Martin VassoloPolice arrest gang member 
for punching 14-year-old
Gainesville Police arrested a local 
woman Thursday afternoon after police 
said she punched a girl who identified 
with the Bloods street gang.
At about 2 p.m. Wednesday, Aliha 
Victoria Pittman, 19, grabbed a red ban-
dana from a teenage girl and punched 
her in the face, according to a police re-
port.
The color red is associated with the 
Bloods gang with which Pittman is affili-ated, according to the report.
Pittman said she saw the girl pledge 
allegiance to the gang on social media, which upset her, according to the report.
When she saw the girl, Pittman tested 
her allegiance by asking the girl a Bloods-related question, called a “G check,” ac-cording to the report.
The girl was unable to answer the 
code correctly, which upset Pittman 
even further. Pittman said the girl was 
“false flagging,” or pledging allegiance to a gang she wasn’t in, according to the report.
Pittman stole the bandana and waved 
it in the girl’s face before punching her. The punch left her with a cut lip, accord-ing to the report.
Police arrested Pittman under charges 
of robbery and took her to the Alachua County Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $5,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloLocal man arrested for 
cooking meth around children
Gainesville Police arrested a local man 
Thursday morning after police said he 
cooked meth in a home with four children.
At about 10:30 a.m. Thursday, Louis 
Alan Hendrix, 37, sat in the passenger seat 
of a car pulled over for running a stop sign 
on Main Street, according to a police re-port.
After police asked Hendrix to step out 
of the car, he hid about 2 grams of meth and a needle under a pile of mulch, ac-cording to a police report.
Police found the drugs and later ob-
tained a warrant to search Hendrix’s 
home, where they found 45 grams of meth 
and four children between the ages of 11 months and 15 years, according to the re-port.
It is unknown whether the children are 
related to Hendrix.
Authorities also found a collection of 
tools used to make meth, including lithi-um batteries, coffee filters and butane fuel. He cooked meth in the home’s bedroom and in an outdoor shed, according to the report.
He also used needles to inject the meth, 
according to the report.
Police arrested Hendrix under charges 
of possessing meth, possessing drug para-phernalia, manufacturing meth with chil-dren present, trafficking meth, maintaining a drug dwelling and destroying evidence.
Authorities took Hendrix to the Alach-
ua County Jail where, as of press time, he 
remains in lieu of a $756,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloMan arrested for possession 
of about 40 grams of weed
Gainesville Police arrested a lo-
cal man Friday after police said he had 
about 40 grams of marijuana and five rifle cartridges in his home.
At about 3:30 p.m. Friday, Kennith 
Morten Morton, 43, slept on the floor of his home in the 7100 block of SW 44th Place, according to the report.
Police conducted a sexual offender 
check on Morton when they noticed the smell of weed coming from outside his home, according to a report.
On his porch, police found a 4-inch-
tall marijuana plant in a pot. Through 
Morton’s glass windows, police saw a jar 
of weed, according to the report.
When police searched Morton’s 
home, they found a scale, five rifle car-tridges and about 40 grams of weed in several plastic bags, according to the re-port.
Morton said the weed was for person-
al use, and he kept it in plastic bags to reduce the smell, according to the report. Police said he likely intended to sell the weed, according to the report.
Police arrested Morton on charges 
of possession of more than 20 grams of weed, possession of weed with intent to sell within 1,000 feet of a park, cultiva-tion of weed, possession of ammunition by a convicted felon and possession of drug paraphernalia.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he was released Satur-
day night on a $21,000 bond.
- Martin Vassolo· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Pittman
 Hendrix
 Morton
 Carr
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
UF began building a new entrance to the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center over Winter 
Break.
Demolition started on the exterior east 
side of the O’Connell Center to create a new entrance, wrote UF spokesman Steve Orlan-do in an email. A ticketing center, conces-sion stand and new seating area are being added.  
The cost for the project is set to be $53.7 
million, Orlando said. 
The building’s electrical system is also 
being updated to reduce energy consump-tion. Construction is set to finish in Decem-ber 2016, he said.
Seats with back rests will be installed 
to replace bleachers, Orlando said. A new video screen and sound system will also be added.
He said the building needed to be up-
dated due to the number of fans it houses.
“There was a need to upgrade the facility 
and bring it up to the expectations we have for such a high-profile venue,” Orlando said.
Jason Slater, 20, said he attends almost 
every basketball game at the O’Connell Center. He always sits in the front row of the student section.
“Sitting down in those uncomfortable 
bleacher chairs, it starts to take a toll on you after a while,” said Slater, a UF construction 
management sophomore. He said he thinks 
a first-aid station should be added.
He said he had to walk across the arena 
to find a first-aid station after injuring his toe during the UF vs. Louisiana State Uni-versity basketball game Saturday.
But Slater said he was excited for the 
renovations. He said he thinks the new vid-eo screen and sound system will improve 
other events, such as concerts.
“I think what they’re doing is perfecting 
that big-stage atmosphere.”
Slater said he thinks the renovations will 
attract more visitors to the arena.
“The athletic department of UF is so 
much more than just a fun thing to go to 
on the weekend,” he said. “It brings these lifelong memories that people will never be able to forget.”4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
Renovations for Newell Hall are on sched-
ule.
As part of the renovations, UF combined 
the Hub’s two bus stops into one and added a raised brick crosswalk during Winter Break, 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said. Newell’s 
renovation, which will cost about $12 million, is expected to be completed in Spring 2017.
The building is being converted into a 
space for students to study, he said.
Newell, which is the third-oldest build-
ing on campus, was constructed in 1910 and vacated in 2012. Mold and asbestos were re-moved from the building in 2015, Orlando 
wrote in an email.
“It was in need of lots and lots of work,” 
he said.
After construction, there will be a new 
restaurant in the Newell Annex, which is at-
tached to Newell Hall, called Au Bon Pain, ac-cording to a project plan. It will serve salads, soup and sandwiches.
The building’s interior will also include new windows, plumbing, fire protection, an electrical system, heating and air condition-ing, according to the project plan.
Alberto Barcenas, a UF international stud-
ies sophomore, said he was worried when he saw the construction start. He said he thought the historical building would be demolished.
“It’s nice to see that they’re maintaining 
the structure,” the 20-year-old said. But when he came back from break, Barcenas said he thought the additional raised crosswalk was strange.
“It seems so unnecessary,” Barcenas said. 
“I feel like that would be more of a nuisance for drivers.”
Barbara Merendino, a UF mechanical engi-
neering junior, said she didn’t care about the renovations.
“There’s so much construction around 
campus,” the 21-year-old said. “It never seems like the campus is done.”
But Merendino said she’s looking forward 
to the additional study space. She said Mar-ston Science Library has become overcrowded after it turned into a 24-hour library.
“There needs to be more study spaces on 
campus, specifically those that are open to all majors,” she said.Campus improvements to O’Dome and Newell are on trackBy Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Gainesville Mayor Ed Braddy 
released a report Friday, which he 
also sent to the state’s ethics com-
mission last month, acknowledg-
ing a potential conflict of interest.
In a report filed Dec. 9, Braddy 
said he may have violated state 
statutes by accepting gifts from 
the former president of the local Fraternal Order of Police lodge, Jeffery McAdams — a close friend of Braddy’s charged with larceny 
late last year.
An investigation by the Florida 
Department of Law Enforcement found that McAdams had stolen 
at least $56,000 from the local FOP lodge, known as Gator Lodge No. 67, by double-billing and us-
ing lodge funds to cover gifts and 
personal travel expenses.
McAdams also used funds to 
cover expenses for himself and Braddy, such as hotel stays and 
dining costs, along with a shared 
car rental and trip to Daytona Beach in April 2013, shortly after Braddy was elected.
Braddy has said he was un-
aware McAdams used lodge funds to cover expenses on his behalf. 
In his report to the Florida 
Commission on Ethics, Braddy 
said he should have known — as a former city commissioner and recently elected mayor — not to 
accept the gifts.
“It should have occurred to me 
that Mr. McAdams’s payment of 
these items may have constituted 
‘gifts’ to me under part III, chap-ter 112, Florida Statutes,” Braddy wrote.
The statute states that no pub-
lic official shall give or receive anything of value to the recipi-ent, knowing it would influence a vote, official action or judgement.
The statute goes on to define 
a “gift” as something accepted by or received on behalf of the donee, and for which the donee does not fully compensate the do-
nor within 90 days.
Shortly after the Daytona 
Beach trip, Braddy voted on an 
ordinance he said adjusted certain retirement and sick leave benefits 
for Gainesville police officers, ac-
cording to a Q&A sheet emailed to local media in December. 
Braddy also included that he 
reimbursed Gator Lodge $515.46.
“I did not provide compen-
sation to Mr. McAdams within 90 days of his payment of these items, nor did I report the re-
ceipt of any of the items,” Braddy 
wrote in his report to the commis-sion. “I am unclear as to which, if any, of the expenses should have 
been reported if they weren’t im-
mediately reimbursed, or if any of the expenses may have consti-tuted prohibited gifts.”
In the report, Braddy said he 
calculated the reimbursement based on his “best recollection” of expenses McAdams covered on his behalf and according to an af-
fidavit by the FDLE.
“It is my sincere hope that re-
imbursement will be considered a 
mitigating factor in any investiga-
tion that the Commission on Eth-
ics may pursue in this matter,” Braddy wrote.
Amid community backlash, 
Gainesville resident Robert Brink-
man also filed a sworn complaint 
to the commission relating to the FDLE’s findings, he wrote in an email last week.
Braddy provides report on potential conflict of interest
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF plans to finish the renovations to Newell Hall in Spring 2017. The about $12-million study 
space project will include new windows, plumbing, fire protection and other interior renovations. 
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
Spectators and security staff use the Stephen C. O’Connell Center before the volleyball game on Dec. 3.
Newell: new crosswalk, bus lane O’Connell: new seats, entranceThe report was filed Dec. 9
“It should have occurred to me 
that Mr. McAdams’s payment 
of these items may have 
constituted ‘gifts’ to me under 
part III, chapter 112, Florida 
Statutes.”
Ed Braddy
Gainesville MayorMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
TECHNOLOGY
By Cece Lemus
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF engineering students are help-
ing high schoolers build robots.
For the ﬁ  rst time, UF hosted the 
kickoff for the 2016 For Inspiration 
and Recognition of Science and 
Technology Robotics Competition 
on Saturday at the New Engineering Building. The competition requires high school students to build a robot, 
and UF engineering students help 
out as mentors. 
The roughly 150 high school stu-
dents, who came from high schools throughout northern Florida, have six weeks to build their robots. At the end of the six weeks, each high school’s robot will have to complete 
an obstacle course.
In addition to meeting their men-tors, high school students toured 
UF’s engineering laboratory and learned more about engineering. 
“We want to be more approach-
able and let them feel welcomed,” said Diana Mogena, a 22-year-old UF industrial engineering senior. 
Kipling Cohen, a senior at P. K. 
Yonge Developmental Research School, said this was his fourth year in FIRST robotics. The 18-year-old said he hopes to study mechanical or aerospace engineering at UF next year. 
“The competition has taught us 
to think critically,” he said.
The event allows high school 
students and UF mentors to bond as they build together, said Ralph Rive-ra, the event’s co-coordinator. 
“There are things we wouldn’t 
experience if it wasn’t for this event,” Rivera said.   These are the droids 
you’re looking forFUMIGATION KILLS PESTS.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Museum of Natural History 
will be temporarily closed.
The fumigation of the museum is routine 
to make sure there are no pests in the mu-
seum that could damage the collections, said 
Jaret Daniels, the associate curator and Lepi-doptera program director. The museum will 
be closed today, Tuesday and Feb. 22-24.
The last fumigation was during Thanks-
giving Break in 2008, Daniels said. The mu-seum operates on UF’s academic calendar, so it didn’t have to close.
During the fumigation, the open-air live 
butterﬂ  y and moth exhibit will be sealed off. After chemicals are released, the building will be aired out.
Rudolf Scheffrahn, a UF professor of en-
tomology, said museums in warmer climates can become easily infested. 
The fumigation process will kill any liv-
ing thing exposed to the chemicals used, he said. If the butterﬂ  ies or moths were ex-posed, they could die.
Bob Smith, a 55-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent, said he and his brother visit the mu-
seum twice a year.         
“They always have something different,” 
Smith said. 
He said he wasn’t worried about the fu-
migations and trusted the museum to pro-tect its collections. 
While the museum is closed, it will have 
“pop-up” exhibits outside for those who are 
interested, said Paul Ramey, the museum’s assistant director of marketing and public re-lations. It will include a butterﬂ  y rainforest and a ﬁ  rst colony exhibit, showing ancient 
man-made tools and pottery fragments. 
He said he is conﬁ  dent the fumigation 
will go well. 
“The collection is basically priceless,” he 
said.   Museum of Natural History closed for fumigations 
By Cecilia Mazanec
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lois Nevins is proud of her collec-
tion of swizzle sticks.
Nevins was one of about 80 col-
lectors at the Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History’s 37th annual Collectors 
Day on Saturday. Items displayed 
ranged from chess sets to banjos to antique cars.
Tiffany Ireland, the museum edu-
cator, said Collectors Day allows mu-seum visitors to show their personal exhibits. She said the event, which 
began in 1980, was expected to bring 
about 2,000 people.
Those who registered could show 
off their collections and the memo-ries they represent, she said.
“How they decide to display their 
collections is up to them,” Ireland said.
Nevins sat behind a table covered 
in brightly colored swizzle sticks, which are used to stir or hold fruit in cocktails.
She said she has been to the 
event three or four times but has been collecting swizzle sticks since the 1940s.
“I use a good brand of formal-
dehyde to keep me preserved,” the 86-year-old said. 
On her table, Nevins proudly dis-
played an article by the Miami Her-ald about her collection. 
When she saw onlookers, Nev-
ins stood, leaned close to them and asked if they were old enough to re-member swizzle sticks. 
“Swizzle sticks are a conversa-
tion piece,” she said. “It’s a piece of history. You know, it’s like our heri-tage.”
Of the 2,000 to 3,000 sticks in her 
collection, she said her favorites are the ones with a little character. 
 “People save them because ev-
ery swizzle stick is a little remem-
brance,” Nevins said.
Tierra Bass, a UF statistics fresh-man, said she found it interesting to 
see the different collections.
“They ﬁ  nd something that’s 
meaningful to them, and they want to express it by having a lot of it,” the 19-year-old said.
William Wu, a UF ﬁ  nance junior, 
used his lunch break from work to look at the collections.
“It’s pretty interesting and pretty 
unique,” the 20-year-old said. “It 
shows a lot of the Gainesville com-
munity.”  Gainesville residents show oﬀ   collections at Collectors Day Emma Green/Alligator Staff
FALSETTO FOR THE FOUNDING
Jonathan Delvarice, a 22-year-old ﬁ  nance senior and the president of the UF chapter of the Phi 
Beta Sigma fraternity, sings and dances with his brothers on Turlington Plaza on Friday. The frater-nity was celebrating its 102nd anniversary.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org  
@Melissagomez004
In November 2011, UF alumnus 
Nikhil Kundra had an idea.
With his sister, Anjali Kundra, they 
launched Partender in May 2014. Par-
tender, an app, helps bar owners take 
inventory and is now in more than 
4,000 bars in over 29 countries, Kundra said.
For their app, Forbes named the 
Kundra siblings in its “2016 30 Under 30: Food and Drink” list released Jan. 4. It was a testament to their hard work and support from family and friends, Nikhil said.
“More than anything, this is just a 
huge achievement for our entire family and our entire team,” the 26-year-old said.
The two graduated from UF with 
master’s degrees in science and entre-preneurship, Anjali in 2012 and Nikhil 
in 2013.
Anjali, 29, said she got her bach-
elor’s degree in business administration 
from UF. After interning in 2007 on Wall Street with a small company, she found she was interested in entrepreneurship.
“The idea of entrepreneurship isn’t 
starting a sexy startup, it’s about test-ing the status quo and what you can improve,” she said.
While at UF, Nikhil said he partici-
pated in the “entrepreneurship boot camp,” a three-day competition in which he teamed up with strangers to create a mock startup. After going for a drink with his partners, he said he won-dered why it took bartenders so long to 
take inventory of their drinks.
“There’s gotta be a better way to do 
this,” he remembered thinking.
His team conceptualized an app to 
speed up the inventory process, he said. 
That idea won the competition, but he didn’t stop there. He later created the app with his sister.Yellowlees Douglas, a UF professor 
of management communications, said she mentored the Kundras while they developed their app.
“It was a fantastic idea, but it was so 
simple,” Douglas said.
When Douglas heard they had made 
a Forbes list, she said she wasn’t sur-prised.
“I’m just thrilled,” she said. “I mean, 
I love to see my former students do so well.”
Anjali, Douglas said, was grounded 
and good at dealing with people. Nikhil, she said, was persuasive.
“They complement each other beau-
tifully,” she said.  UF alumni siblings on Forbes list for app development
Anjali
Nikhil
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnThe reclassiﬁ  cation 
of manatees would 
be a grave error
In last week’s Darts & Laurels, we awarded a Laurel to Flori-
da’s manatee population for making a tremendous comeback. This was spurred on by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s announcement Thursday that they were seeking to reclassify the West Indian manatee from “endangered” to “threatened.”
The proposal was prompted primarily by the cold, hard num-
bers concerning Florida’s manatee population. According to Mi-chael Oetker, the southeast deputy regional director for FWS, “the manatee is no longer in danger of extinction.” In NPR’s piece on the development, writer Merrit Kennedy cited the 1991 aerial sur-vey that only counted 1,267 manatees in Florida. It doesn’t take a mathematician to know this number is a strong juxtaposition from the more than 6,300 manatees currently estimated to be re-siding in our state. The news has been touted as a much-needed 
conservation victory across news and social media outlets alike. 
It is no mistake manatees are widely adored by Floridians and animal lovers at large: Disregarding domesticated pets, one would be hard-pressed to ﬁ  nd a friendlier animal.
However, any such celebrations are not only premature, but 
also represent a tragic inability on the part of publications and the public to be able to read between the lines. As we mentioned last week, the Sun Sentinel reported that the effort to downgrade the manatee’s status to “threatened” has been generated chieﬂ  y by 
the Paciﬁ  c Legal Foundation, a libertarian advocacy group that 
represents the interests of landowners and developers. It should not be difﬁ  cult to parse out why individuals concerned with proﬁ  t-ing off of coastal areas would like to see protections for manatees rolled back.
Many of the articles reporting on the matter have noted that, 
even with the alteration of status, manatees would be virtually af-forded the same protections. As much as we wish this were true, it isn’t exactly the case. In a 2014 letter by Dr. Katie Tripp, the di-
rector of science and conservation for the Maitland, Florida-based 
Save the Manatee Club, she warns that declassiﬁ  cation presents a dangerous step in undoing all of the good that protection efforts have achieved: “Reclassiﬁ  cation will result in a reduction in pro-tection for the manatee, by (FWS’) own description… ‘This analy-sis of threats is an evaluation of both the threats currently facing the species and the threats that are reasonably likely to affect the species in the foreseeable future following the delisting or reclas-siﬁ  cation and the removal or reduction of the Act’s protections.’” 
Tripp goes on to note that, although the manatee population has 
increased, the existential threats it faces, such as the alteration or pollution of warm bodies of water and unauthorized human interaction, have not been reduced to the point that conservation efforts can become complacent.
Tripp and the Save the Manatee Club are not the only ones with 
such concerns. In a letter sent to the FWS, Rep. Vern Buchanan, R-Sarasota, called the initiative “misguided and premature,” and he urged the government to “not downplay the severity of these 
threats to the manatee’s survival.” Manatees have thrived because 
of, not in spite of, their classiﬁ  cation and the protections it affords. 
It would be a tragic error for us to allow our excitement over 
the manatees’ resurgence to become the very thing that brings about their undoing. We strongly urge our readers to consider call-ing our state’s representatives and senators, along with the FWS, to urge them to not downgrade the threat level posed to manatees. The FWS can be reached at 1-800-344-WILD. Florida’s unique fau-na are part of what makes ours a beautiful state: We believe there 
is little sense in forsaking protection efforts.
We don’t need He-Men; we need serious politicians
Donald Trump is not the disease — he is 
the symptom. 
For many, America is in a directorial 
crisis. Liberalism is inherently optimistic, and with a growing percentage of Ameri-
cans identifying as working class, its cracks are multiplying.
The GOP might fear the Islamic State’s apoc-
alyptic vision, but this feeds beautifully into its own ghoulish desires. Trump’s TV ad promises “He’ll quickly cut the head off ISIS, and take their oil.” Even baby Bush’s ad says, “Serious times require serious leadership.” Rick Santorum — a very silly candidate — pleads, “Serious times need serious people.”
Rather than crouch in a bunker of the mind, we must 
remember the harrowing potential of politics born of fear. Fear needs a scapegoat, and fear will sniff one out. In mass movements, our worst impulses take root and our best turn to seed.
These are scary times without easy solutions. Defeating 
ISIS won’t be “so easy,” as Trump promised. We mustn’t reduce world-shaping political decisions to gut impulses, adrenaline rushes and sweaty, electrifying pep. We mustn’t 
glorify Trump for saying what others are too timid to say, 
thereby glorifying racism, sexism and warmongering.
The tragedy is that his magnetic appeal to triumph and 
power blinds many to very real and very troubling speciﬁ  cs.
Trump famously branded undocumented Mexican mi-
grants as rapists. It is tragic that the working poor attack the working poorer — the trodden and abused in our already-stratiﬁ  ed economy. Many pay taxes; few are able to achieve mobility; all live in blood-curdling insecurity. Additionally, 
many migrants from Mexico are Central American children 
facing violent deaths at the hands of gangs. Last year, thou-sands were denied asylum. Some were murdered within days of return. Sadly, the Obama administration neverthe-less began its ﬁ  rst large-scale deportation effort this month.
Trump opposes legal abortion. A World Health Organi-
zation and Guttmacher Institute study proved that making abortion illegal did not reduce its incidence; only contracep-tion access did. Prior to Roe v. Wade, as many as 5,000 American women per year died during illegal abortion procedures.
Speaking on Vladimir Putin’s support of the 
Assad regime, Trump has stated, “at least he’s a 
leader.” Putin has bombed several schools and 
at least one hospital in Syria, and he supports the authoritarian, near-genocidal Assad regime. The horrors of the Assad regime, along with the destabilization of the Iraq war, only served to bolster the ranks of the Islamic State.      
Despite supporting military might against ISIS, Trump 
opposes the invasion of Iraq. So do I. However, Trump’s narrative shows a horriﬁ  c ﬂ  ippancy regarding human 
rights. In a recent speech in South Carolina, Trump recount-
ed, “Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas, everyone goes crazy, oh he’s using gas.” I believe he is referring to the 1988 Halabja attack, a genocidal massacre that killed up to 5,000 Kurds and injured up to 10,000 — the largest chemical-weapons attack on civilians ever.
Having launched his business with a million-dollar loan 
from his father, Trump is an unlikely avatar of the average Joe. Sadly, the dispossessed working class stands to suffer 
most in Trump’s fantasy world. But in the fantasies of many 
voters, it is they who will rule with an iron ﬁ  st.
In the December GOP debate, Ted Cruz bellowed, 
“America can win again, and America will win again.” The Donald said, “Our country doesn’t win anymore. Nothing works in our country. If I’m elected president, we will win again. We will win a lot, and we will have a great, great country, better than before.” Substitute “I” for “country,” “America,” and “we.” Repeat these afﬁ  rmations over the 
shower radio, but, please, don’t julienne the Middle East 
for them. Don’t force women to puncture their uteruses for them. Don’t force Syrians to suffer barrel bombs and chlo-rine gas or drown at sea. Don’t deport children to their kill-ers. To quote President Obama in his end-of-the-year NPR interview: “What exactly are you talking about?”
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As Jan. 1 neared, many 
media outlets published articles that reviewed and ranked the most noteworthy events of 
the past 365 days. For many left-wing publications, the event that gained the most praise was the 2015 United Nations Paris Climate Change Conference. This event, apparently the most important and consequential event of the past year, was magnificently monu-mental in nature. Because of the hot air 
emissions created at the talks and coupled 
with the negotiators’ unduly self-praise, the media declared that all of the polar bears clinging onto nearly liquid glaciers can rest easy.
Before you write angry emails, I am 
not a climate-change denier. I think car-ing for the environment is a necessary en-deavor. That being said, I was not really 
fond of the Paris climate conference.
Here’s why: World dignitaries lost 
their sense of priorities. True, environ-
mental concerns are incredibly important. There’s no doubt about that. But when I think of the most important global con-cerns — ones that can make an immediate difference in my life — I can’t say climate change is one of them. 
Once again, that’s not to say environ-
mental issues aren’t important in the fu-ture — they are — but right now, terror-ism is clearly the top global priority. We have seen attacks in the U.S., Australia, Europe and Africa. We have seen scores of Muslims, Christians and other religious men and women being slaughtered in the most egregious ways. This terror is not 
going to go away. If world leaders were 
to come together for one issue, it should be this one.
Secondly, the talks were effectively 
useless. Let me explain: Each participat-ing country made a pledge to voluntarily cut carbon dioxide emissions. While that’s a nice goal, there was one fatal flaw: If a country breaks its promise, there will be 
no repercussions. Zero. Nada. A country 
could pledge to cut a lot of carbon di-oxide, pronounce how environmentally friendly its goal and its country are and renege on that pledge with total impunity.  
Oddly enough, world leaders decided 
to operate on an honor system sort of like the one that governs an open bowl of candy on a doorstep on Halloween. A note dictates — with equal enforceability, mind you — children must take 
one candy each or suffer the 
nonexistent consequences from the homeowners who are not in their house and are not will-ing to act on their demands. We all know how we behave when 
presented with this predicament.  
Of course, this forces us to rely on the 
stellar and forthcoming natures of our for-
eign counterparts — for example, the stel-
lar and forthcoming nature of countries like China. We all know China fudges its economic data. Ten-percent growth rate, really? Given the chance, they’d fudge emission numbers as well.
Interestingly enough, the talks hovered 
around cuts in domestic carbon dioxide emissions. For a country like China, it 
could reduce their domestic emissions — 
if what they tell us is true — but keep their foreign factories and manufacturing plants pumping out carbon dioxide. Once again, they will not be penalized for this.
For a final point, consider the spectrum 
of outcomes. On one hand, leaders could just make up emission-cutting goals and completely fail on their promises. This is 
clearly a bad outcome. 
On the other hand, let’s say countries 
properly cut emissions and keep their 
promises and hold others accountable. If this happens, we have established a hyp-ocritical precedent. The drivers of these talks are all post-industrialized nations. Talks about cutting emissions are great for countries like the U.S., which doesn’t 
manufacture and produce goods as much 
as it did in the 1890s. 
For developing countries, manufactur-
ing and production are necessary to grow their economies. If we impose restrictions on these countries, their economic fu-tures and standards of living will suffer. We would prevent them from becoming first-world nations. I find this inherently 
unfair and yet another bad outcome.
All in all, this conference was neither 
consequential nor monumental. The polar 
bears need to start worrying again.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays. Paris conference was a bunch of hot airColumn
Many maintain that Sen. 
Bernie Sanders has low odds of becoming the presidential candidate for the Democratic Par-
ty, much less winning a general election. In spite of this, his plat-form and voting records are, by a considerable margin, the most thought-out and useful for wom-en of any presidential candidate; many of his proposals are already in place in other developed democracies. The best example of this is paid family leave: Sanders has a clear way of paying for it, while Hillary Clinton’s plan is vague and doesn’t clearly outline who would foot the bill. It would be hard for Clinton to compete on policy alone. Thus far, her main edge over Sanders has stemmed from her name recognition and inﬂ  uence within the Democratic Party. A former advisor to President Obama, David Axelrod, even called the initial harsh pen-alties lobbied against Sanders for having access to Clinton’s voter data as “putting ﬁ  nger on scale” for Clinton.
While Clinton is a woman, that doesn’t 
automatically make her the better candi-date for women. The way you earn the title of president is by having a strong record throughout your career, not by having run previously or having establishment connec-tions. 
According to The Washington Post, the 
Clinton Foundation has notoriously accept-ed donations from countries with question-able records on women’s rights, including Qatar, Oman and Kuwait. She served on the board of directors for Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for six years and maintains tight ties to the company. Wal-Mart has notoriously fought against a living wage — an omnipresent is-sue that affects men and women in equal measure.
More recently, she has demonstrated yet 
again her consistent double standard as it pertains to sexual assault and her own hus-band’s indiscretions. 
As Michelle Goldberg wrote in Slate Mag-
azine, the recent sexual assault allegations lobbed against Bill Clinton may hurt Hillary more than her hus-band, especially since treatment of such allegations has changed since the 1990s. If a situation similar to the Monica Lewinsky scandal happened today, there would be more discussion of how it was wrong to take advantage of a subordinate and less fuss 
over the sex itself. While Clinton shouldn’t necessarily be held accountable for her hus-band’s actions, making him a part of her campaign and passing judgment on the ve-racity of sexual assault claims made against Bill Clinton makes it part of her campaign.
Clinton was recently endorsed by 
Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood knows the person in the White House has the power to inﬂ  uence the degree to which they receive federal funding. 
More than likely, the person most will-
ing to extend funds to the organization would be a Democrat. But this endorsement of Clinton seems a little early considering Planned Parenthood hasn’t endorsed any-one in the presidential primaries in its 100-year history. It’s the easy way out: While this may have little to no inﬂ  uence on Clin-ton, clearly the establishment’s candidate in this race, such an endorsement would have helped Bernie Sanders in a substantial way.
In an ideal world, providers like Planned 
Parenthood would not be necessary be-cause health care would not be a luxury re-served for those who can afford good care. 
Ultimately, access to health care 
shouldn’t be something debated on the Sen-ate ﬂ  oor or in presidential primaries, but as long as universal health care isn’t provided, Planned Parenthood’s services will be nec-essary.
Because she’s a woman, it’s easy to ig-
nore Clinton’s myriad weaknesses on wom-en’s rights. It’s important to pay attention to policy, not just the loudest voice in the room.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science soph-
omore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Clinton’s connections don’t make up 
for her abysmal women's rights record Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
ULTIMATE AIM
Billy O’Bryan, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, serves a flying disc during Women’s 
Ultimate Frisbee FallOut XIV at Southwest Recreation Center on Saturday. The UF Women’s Ultimate Frisbee team hosted the all-day tournament.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
After months of planning, or-
ganizations across campus are 
giving UF a chance to celebrate 
diversity.
Pride Student Union, Wom-
en’s Student Association, Stu-
dent Government Women’s 
Affairs, the Hispanic Student 
Association and the Asian American Student Union are hosting general body meetings and events this week to give stu-
dents the opportunity to explore 
diversity on campus. The orga-nizations have been planning the week since October.
Estevan Torres, the president 
of the Hispanic Student Associa-tion, said the event is a welcome week for transfer and Innova-tion Academy students.
Torres, who is in IA, said he 
wanted to offer students a week to learn more about diversity on 
campus.
“It’s kind of a ‘welcome, let’s 
come together’ thing,” he said.
The Black Student Union, 
which was supposed to host an 
event Tuesday, will no longer be hosting an event, Torres said. He said BSU didn’t think mem-bers would be able to attend.
Student Body President Jo-
selin Padron-Rasines said she hopes it becomes an annual event.
“I think it’s great that they’re 
getting together,” she said. “I 
think it’s a great opportunity for 
students.”
Alyssa Bethencourt, a UF 
telecommunication freshman, 
said she got involved in orga-
nizations during the Fall but is looking forward to taking a look at UF’s cultures.
The 18-year-old said it will 
be good for students to expand their knowledge of the different cultures on campus.
“There’s so many different 
kinds of people on campus,” she said. “Once you get to UF, 
there’s a huge emphasis on all 
the different cultures.”UF organizations 
celebrate diversity week
By Elizabeth Pantaleon 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The U.S. Departments of Health 
and Agriculture released the 2015-
2020 Dietary Guidelines for Ameri-cans on Thursday, creating beef among health-conscious Ameri-
cans.
Ali Al-Rajhi, a postdoctoral as-
sociate at UF’s Food Science and 
Human Nutrition Department, said the plan failed to mention the draw-backs of processed meat. 
“I am a strong believer of con-
suming a moderate amount of lo-cally sourced, grass-fed, organic meats due to the number of health benefits,” he said. 
The guidelines are updated ev-
ery five years to reflect current evidence on nutrition and disease prevention, according to a Depart-ment of Health and Human Servic-es press release. 
Al-Rajhi added it’s sometimes 
difficult for average Americans to access healthy food options.
“Challenges I have seen when 
working with college students and during my personal college experi-ence is finding the ability to plan out healthy meals, budget for healthy foods and avoiding late night crav-ings for pizza or fast food,” he said. 
Steven Che, a UF food science 
and human nutrition senior, said the guidelines list all meats and an-imal products under the umbrella of  protein. However, they fail to address the specific risks of eating large amounts of red and processed meats.
“I heard that there were politics 
involving the meat industry,” the 21-year-old said. “Regardless, the message is not being said, and that is a problem.”
New diet guidelines cause concernCAMPUS
“There’s so many different 
kinds of people on campus. 
Once you get to UF, there’s 
a huge emphasis on all the 
different cultures.”
Alyssa Bethencourt
UF telecommunication freshman
Gainesville Throwbacks
Jan. 14, 1985The NCAA rejected UF’s appeal for a reduction 
in lost football scholarships following more than 100 reported major infractions.
The decision came after a 22-month investigation 
into UF’s football program, after which the NCAA charged UF with ticket scalping, spying on oppo-nents’ practices, illegal recruiting tactics and illegal slush funds.
The team lost 20 athletic scholarships over the 
next two seasons, a move the NCAA said was neces-sary in order to ensure the university lost any com-petitive advantage gained through illegal recruiting processes.
Following the decision, UF president Marshall Cri-
ser fired head coach Charlie Pell and two of his as-sistant coaches, reorganized UF’s athletic department and reported additional wrongdoings by the depart-ment.
Jan. 11, 1992An accidental phone call became the reintroduc-
tion of a fraternity at UF.
Greg Lee, at the time a UF sophomore, said when 
he first thought of creating a fraternity on campus, it would be the group his father was a member of: Phi Kappa Sigma.But when he picked up the phone to make a call, 
he dialed up Phi Sigma Kappa.
Despite the mistake, one conversation led to an-
other and Lee led the charge of bringing back a frater-nity that existed on campus in the 1960s and 1970s.
Of the 24 founding members, a majority were for-
mer pledges of Delta Tau Delta, a fraternity that lost its chapter at UF a year earlier due to hazing viola-tions.
Jan. 10, 2001The goal was $750 million. After the five-year 
timeframe was up, Florida exceeded that goal. With the help of 250,000 alumni, corporations and foun-
dations, UF raised a total of $850,400,017 through 
the university’s “It’s Performance That Counts” campaign. Alumni led the charge and raised about 30 percent of the money in a campaign that spanned through the end of John Lombardi’s presidency and ended under the oversight of Charles Young.
“There is not a more dedicated group of followers 
and supporters than the ones at UF,” Young said.
The money raised made up about 70 percent of 
UF’s budget and was used to support university pro-grams, faculty support, facilities and scholarships.
—Emily Cochrane and Jordan McPherson
Alligator File Photo
Then-UF freshman Anaelle Canez lights a candle 
in remembrance of the 2010 Haiti earthquake.
Gainesville.
“Lucky’s is trying to expand all 
across the nation to afford great food 
and great prices to patrons. It’s the amusement park of grocery stores,” 
Knaus said.
From the minute shoppers 
opened their car doors, the smell of 
$1 burgers and bratwursts drifted from a grill outside the store’s en-trance. 
More than 13 local vendors and 
several carnival games sat lined against the store’s windows. Kids and adults tossed plastic rings onto bottles of San Pellegrino in hopes of winning assorted fruits.
Once inside, live music greeted 
shoppers’ ears. As customers or-dered beers nearby, a woman sang to the tune of an acoustic guitar.
Knaus, a Lucky’s employee for 
two years, said the ﬁ  rst store opened in Boulder, Colorado, in 2003. Twelve new stores will open 
across the country this year, he said, including a Naples, Florida, location set to open Wednesday. 
While Knaus is excited for the 
chain’s national success, he stays fo-cused on improving the Gainesville location. This year, he plans to at-
tract more local vendors.
“We have a great amount, but I 
want to be better at it,” he said. 
Lucy Collins, 29, was born and 
raised in Gainesville. She started 
shopping at Lucky’s just months af-ter its grand opening. 
“I love their sales. I come here es-
pecially for that,” Collins said. “I also appreciate what they do with the or-ganic food and, of course, the beer while you shop. That’s pretty awe-some. It makes it more fun.” 
One of King’s favorite things 
about his job is working closely with shoppers like Collins.
“It’s what we’re doing here that 
other stores aren’t. All the organic things, but also helping the commu-nity,” he said. “I think other grocery stores are starting to catch on, but other than a few off the top of my head, we’re up there.”
“We’re one of the only few be-
cause we center around the impor-tant stuff,” King said.
As King packaged orders behind 
the meat counter, he soaked in the 
surrounding festivities. 
“It’s awesome that we’re doing 
so great as a store. Today is just a 
great day with a lot of cool stuff that people are enjoying,” King said. “Ev-erybody is just happy to be here.”
LUCKY’S,  from pg 1Vendors, carnival games and live music were at the event
MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
ABOVE:
Solstice Schafer (left), a 17-year-
old courtesy clerk, and Andrew Vaillancourt, a 30-year-old assis-tant store director, grill $1 ham-burgers and sausages outside Lucky’s Market on Saturday. 
RIGHT:
Pictured is one of the games avail-able to play during the Lucky’s Market One Year Anniversary Celebration. Customers could play games like ring toss while waiting in line for food.
All Photos by Scott Parker / AlligatorKyle Jackson, a 26-year-old co-owner of Wide Eyed Design, talks to customers at the craft fair outside of Lucky’s Market on Saturday. His table was one of several booths as part of the festivities for the Lucky’s Market One Year Anniversary Celebration.
Lucky’s Market, a supermarket chain that specializes in natural and organic products, celebrated its ﬁ  rst year in Gainesville with a festival that included food and games Friday through Sunday.MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-20-15-23-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $595
00 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-
ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-
petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at 
www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring
coaches for cheerleading, recreational & team gymnastics & more!  Apply today at www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.     1-11-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    1-12-16-5-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Four UF softball players were 
named to the USA National T eam. Read the story on pg 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Florida defensive tackle shines in playoffs
Former UF football player Sharrif Floyd recorded three tackles, two for a 
loss, and one sack in Minnesota's 10-9 loss to the Seattle Seahawks on Sun-day afternoon. By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
What transpired on Sunday 
wasn’t what Ole Miss envisioned 
for the opening of its brand-new on-campus arena. 
Hosting Florida (14-2, 2-1 
Southeastern Conference) for the inaugural women’s basket-ball game at The Pavilion, the Rebels (9-7, 1-2 SEC) were out-played from the opening tip and ultimately lost by a final score of 85-65. 
It was UF’s second SEC win 
in a row following a stunning victory at No. 12 Tennessee on 
Thursday night. 
“Our team has a great deal 
of confidence in each other and 
they really believe in how good they are,” Florida head coach Amanda Butler said of avoiding a hangover from the Tennessee game following the win over Ole Miss. 
“When you play that way with a group of veterans, they’re not going to allow that to happen.” 
While the result was one the 
Gators have become accustomed to, the route they took to get there was not. 
For the most part, UF has 
been a closing team this season. 
It tends to stay within striking 
distance in the first half of games and then pulls away in the sec-ond half. 
Sunday was not one of those 
games. 
While Ole Miss held a lead for 
almost four minutes at the begin-ning of the game, once UF took Florida breezes past Ole Miss
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Tyshara Fleming (24) drives into the paint during Florida's 76-70 loss to Mississippi State on Jan. 3.
IT'S COHEN DOWN
Before it be-
gan, it didn’t seem as if the 2015-16 sea-son would be 
one of success for the Gators.  There were changes — a new coach, new players and a new scheme — and there were depar-tures, the most monumental being Billy Donovan’s jump to the NBA. 
And yet there Florida was on 
Saturday, up by ﬁ  ve points with 
10 seconds left in the second half. There was KeVaughn Allen, closely defending LSU guard Tim Quarter-man as Quarterman heaved a des-perate three pointer with time run-ning out. There was UF’s 6-foot-11 center John Egbunu, corralling the miss, tipping it in the air and into the hands of forward Justin Leon.
The ﬁ  nal few seconds ticked 
off the clock, taking with them any memories of UF’s loss three days earlier, a lackluster performance against Tennessee that turned into the Gators’ ﬁ  rst Southeastern Con-ference defeat of the season.
“That wasn’t us,” redshirt se-
nior Dorian Finney-Smith said on Saturday. “So we had to prove it to 
ourselves.”
But although Florida’s win over 
LSU was a positive for the Gators, 
it was also a reﬂ  ection of Florida’s current state as a team: that of a group still searching for its identity.
Mike White’s ﬁ  rst year as coach has been about growth, about instill-ing a defense-ﬁ  rst 
mentality into a mix-
ture of young and old, new and familiar play-ers. And when Florida doesn’t exhibit that mentality on the court, it ﬂ  ops.
Florida relies on its 
defense as much out of necessity as 
anything else. Although they have 
players who are natural scorers, the Gators’ best offensive weapon may be a gifted but streaky freshman in Allen, and none of their players’ strengths derive from their shooting ability.
So, as is probably obvious, Mike 
White’s team must be an elite de-
fensive unit if it ﬁ  gures to stand a 
chance against good SEC teams.
Here’s what isn’t obvious.So far this season, in the games 
when Florida has been at its best defensively, it’s also been among the best in the nation.
Florida ranks 27th in the coun-
try in scoring defense — allowing 
just 63.5 points per game — ahead 
of every top-25 team save for No. 4 Virginia, No. 5 Michigan State, No. 11 Villanova, No. 16 Louisville and No. 20 Purdue.
Florida has the seventh best 
defensive quotient in the nation at 12.8, meaning that Florida is hold-ing teams 12.8 points below their 
scoring average on the season, 
ahead of all but four teams ranked If it hopes to contend, 
Gators' defense must 
continue to be elite
IT WAS FLORIDA'S FOURTH-
HIGHEST SEASON OPENING 
SCORE IN PROGRAM HISTORY.
Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
 
If the saying “you never get a second 
chance to make a first impression,” holds true, Jenny Rowland needn’t lose sleep.
In her first meet as the coach of Flori-
da’s gymnastics program, Rowland’s team marched into Kitty Magee Arena in Den-ton, Texas, emerging victorious after a 
convincing performance against an over-
matched Texas Woman’s University.
Just how potent was that initial impres-
sion?
Winning by a solid 5.375 point mar-
gin, Rowland’s Gators posted a score of 196.825, the fourth-highest mark to open a UF gymnastics campaign in the program’s 44-season history. Additionally, UF swept 
the event, netting contributions from 
freshmen and returning gymnasts alike.
For Rowland, it was an ideal perfor-
mance in her first ride around the colle-giate coaching carousel.
“So incredibly proud 
of this team,” Rowland said in a release.
“We knew there would 
be mistakes, but that’s OK because we don’t need to be at our best right now. We came in and did what we needed 
to do.”
Under her watch, the tandem of senior 
Bridget Sloan and sophomore Kennedy Baker clinched the top-two spots in the all-around. Sloan tacked on an additional two 
titles in the uneven bars and floor routines, 
while Alex McMurtry’s 9.925 snagged her both the vault title and the meet’s overall highest score. On the balance beam, UF posted its second-highest season-opening score, with an aggregate 49.425 falling just shy of the 2004 squad’s 49.45.
The Gators thoroughly dominated the 
competition.
But as far as Rowland is concerned, re-
sults are only part of the entire equation.
“Our theme this year is to focus on the UF gymnastics blows out opponent in season openerSEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Rowland
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15It was UF's second SEC win 
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
It’s tough to win basketball 
games when you can’t shoot very 
well. 
And yet, Florida sits at 10-5 two 
weeks into conference play.
Saturday’s 68-62 home win over 
LSU was the Gators’ latest piece of 
evidence that they don’t need to have stellar — or even decent — of-fensive statistics to win games, or at least keep them close.
Take Dec. 12, for example. Flor-
ida was in East Lansing, Michigan, taking on the then-No. 1 Spartans. 
Mike White’s Gators shot 33.3 
percent from the field, including 22.2 percent from beyond the arc. Typically those numbers, combined with playing the No. 1 team on the road, don’t result in a six-point loss 
in a tight, competitive game. But 
that’s what Florida managed: a 58-52 loss.
 It still stands as the least amount 
of points Michigan State has scored this year.
Fast forward to Saturday against 
the Tigers. Freshman Ben Simmons and the LSU offense came to town averaging 84.3 points per game and 
shooting 47.8 percent, both South-
eastern Conference bests. 
In the game, the Gators shot 24-
for-63 and 3-for-18 from downtown. 
Florida won, holding the Tigers to 
their second-worst shooting game of the season (35.7 percent) and second-lowest point total.
The Gators are scoring 72.8 
points per game. Their 41.4 percent field goal shooting, 28.3 three-point percentage and 61.6 percent free throw rate all rank last in the SEC. 
But again, Florida is 10-5 and 2-1 in 
conference play.
White said the Gators’ shooting 
is mediocre, for now. 
He knows the numbers and he’s 
seen the box scores, but he also be-lieves as long as the Gators’ team defense and energy level remains high, they will continue to give 
themselves a chance to win.
“If I knew how to get (high ener-
gy) every single time, we’d be a bet-
ter team,” White said on Saturday. 
“We talked about how the en-
ergy level at Michigan State was off the charts. I was extremely proud of that effort in that game…talking to (the team), continuing to show them film of how good they can 
be with their energy level and how 
poor that we’ve been at times.”
Florida’s loss to Tennessee last 
Wednesday was a low point for the 
Gators. 
White said after the 83-69 blow-
out that there were virtually no pos-
itives to be taken from the team’s low energy and low enthusiasm. 
It was a typical shooting perfor-
mance, 34.3 percent. But without the high level of effort that White has been preaching, Florida stood 
no chance in the conference road 
game.
“We just came out with a lot 
more energy today,” Chris Chiozza said after Saturday’s win. “I don’t 
know if it was because it was a 
home game or because we just came out prepared. But we came out with a lot of energy and we were able to 
maintain it the whole game.”
Its defense is holding its own 
and its offense is struggling. How-
ever, the wild card factor, especially in away games, is Florida’s energy 
level.
“As a staff, we’ve ramped it up 
the last couple days,” White said. “When you know the biggest fac-
tor and the biggest concern is your energy level, coming into the game 
(against LSU)…in this one it wasn’t as much a concern about schemes as much as it was how hard we’re going to play, because I knew if we 
didn’t fix that factor from our last 
performance (at Tennessee), I knew we wouldn’t have a chance.”Gators keeping games close despite poor shooting
NOTEBOOK
FOOTBALL AND SOFTBALL 
FACILITIES WILL BE THE 
FIRST PRIORITY.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
Renovating the O’Connell Center is just 
one step in UF athletic director Jeremy 
Foley’s master plan.
Foley spoke at length about the de-
tailed plan to upgrade the 35-year-old fa-cility on Saturday, a plan that will reduce the arena’s seating by roughly 1,000 seats and essentially turn the building into a new facility without tearing down the ex-isting structure. 
With the renovation underway in a 
limited fashion and set to begin in full in mid-March, the university will now look ahead at the next facilities to be upgraded.
“We have a master plan that’s devel-
oped for us right now by an architectural firm,” Foley said. 
“We hope to have that master plan 
here in February that looks at not only our football facilities but every facility we have and what can be done, what kind of price tag are we talking about.
“We’ll sit down and figure out what 
our priorities are.”
Among those priorities are continued 
efforts in football as well as softball, the athletic director said, although he isn’t sure what that will look like specifically.
But some sort of improvement to Katie 
Seashole Pressly Softball Stadium is defi-nitely on the agenda.“That’s a back-to-back national cham-
pionship program,” Foley said. “That sta-
dium was built 20-plus years ago. It’s a 
little small now.
“That’s a huge priority for us.”Foley pleased with McElwain’s first 
year: Despite the way the season end-
ed for UF coach Jim McElwain and the 
Gators, the athletic director is confident the first-year coach has the program on the right track.
“We never put wins and loss expecta-
tions on our coaches,” Foley said. “We want them to get the program moving in that direction, and it would be hard for us to say it’s not moving in that direction. 
“Obviously, it didn’t end the way peo-
ple wanted, especially Mac, but to sit here and look at a team that won 10 games and made it to Atlanta, made it to a Jan. 1 bowl game in the first year and with prob-ably some holes, I think that’s a reflection on coach Mac and his staff.”
Assistant coaches likely to stay in 
tact: Changes could still happen as the NFL season winds down and teams final-
ize their coaching staffs, but McElwain’s 
staff appears to be staying put.
Winning teams usually lose at least one 
or two members of their staffs who move 
on to bigger opportunities, but as of now, 
McElwain’s coaches have decided to re-
main in Gainesville, despite rumors that 
some were frontrunners for other college jobs.
“So far you knock on wood,” Foley said 
about keeping everyone on the staff. “It’s 
as good of a football staff that I’ve ever 
been around.”Florida to continue renovationsBy Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
@brianlee_17
UF will be well represented when the USA 
Softball Women’s National Team competes 
internationally this Summer. 
Freshman pitcher Kelly Barnhill, senior in-
fielder Kelsey Stewart, senior catcher Aubree 
Munro and former Gator Michelle Moultrie 
were among the 18 athletes whittled down from an initial group of 40 to represent the United States. 
With her selection, Barnhill became the 
youngest player given a roster spot on the U.S. Women’s National Team since Ashley Han-son from Stanford in 2009. Florida’s four ath-letes selected are the most from any school. 
Of the team’s 18 members, nine hail from the Southeastern Conference. 
In addition, sophomore Nicole DeWitt was 
selected to be a member of the U.S. Women’s 
Elite Team.
“What a great opportunity for these five 
outstanding individuals to continue to learn 
and develop while play-ing for their country,” UF coach Tim Walton said in a release. “I’m proud of all of them and can’t wait to 
see how they perform this 
summer.”
The team will be com-
peting at the World Cup of Softball XI, the XV World 
Baseball Softball Confederation (WBSC) Women’s World Championship in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada and the Japan Cup.Softball players named to USA team
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Catcher Aubree Munro high fives teammate Kelsey Stewart during player 
introductions against Kansas on Feb. 21.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
UF’s Chris Chiozza dribbles during Florida’s 68-62 win over LSU on Jan. 9, 2016, in the O’Connell Center. Chiozza finished with a game-high eight assists.
UF shoots an SEC-worst 41.4 percent
Barnhill
process and enjoy that journey. 
We aren’t focusing on the desti-nation.”
Considering where the pro-
gram stands in the grand scheme 
of amateur gymnastics — one 
championship away from a cov-eted four-peat — this day-by-day approach does more than just keep Rowland and her gymnasts grounded.
“One other theme we have is 
‘Designed to Go Far’,” Rowland said.
“It is just knowing that any-
thing and everything that hap-pens in our lives makes us the person we are. We want to build on that day after day.”
At first glance, a team bearing 
the combined weight of a target 
on its back from being a three-
time defending national champi-ons as well as the inexperience that comes with a rookie head coach seems too much to handle.
But if Rowland can maintain 
this air of cool into the more challenging stretches of Flori-da's schedule, the Gators have a 
chance to  achieve success as it 
strives for its ultimate goal of an NCAA title.MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
a lead with 5:55 left in the first quarter, it didn’t look back. 
By the start of the second 
quarter, the rout was already 
on. 
After leading by as many as 
24, Florida had the match in 
hand before halftime.
With Florida leading 53-30 
at halftime, UF was poised to break the 100-point barrier for the second time this year. 
However, the team cooled 
off in the second half to the tune of 32 points. 
Junior forward Tyshara 
Fleming led the Gators with 12 points, marking her first time leading the team in scoring this season. 
Five Florida players recorded 
double figures for only the third 
time this season, while sopho-
more Haley Lorenzen added nine and senior Carla Batchelor notched eight. 
Freshman Eleanna Christi-
naki didn’t light up the score-board, but she did produce 10 assists. 
Redshirt senior Carlie Nee-
dles recorded 11 points and six rebounds, but her hustle and energy acted as a catalyst for the first-half scoring run. 
And for the sixth time this season, junior Ronni Williams finished the game with a dou-
ble-double, scoring 11 points 
and collecting 12 rebounds. 
“I know there’s gonna be a 
lot of names when I look at the stat sheet, but that’s just how we play,” Butler said. 
“And we don’t know who 
it’s going to be that steps up each night, but we just know 
that someone’s going to.”
As usual, Butler did not 
shy away from addressing 
some weaknesses she saw in her team post-game, despite a 20-point margin of victory. 
“There’s always room to 
grow,” she said. 
“We had too many turn-
overs, a lot of spacing mis-cues. There’s gonna be some things that the film shows us. The main thing we’ve gotta do is rest tomorrow and then get back to work on Tuesday.”
Tuesday is when the team 
will resume practice, but its next game won’t take place un-
til Thursday when rival Geor-
gia comes to Gainesville for a 7 p.m. tip in the O’Connell Cen-ter. 
While the Bulldogs do boast 
a 12-4 record, they’ll be look-ing for their first SEC win, as they’re currently 0-3 in confer-ence play.
W-HOOPS,  from pg 13Gators finished with five 
players in double figures for third time this seasoninside the top-25.
And the Gators are doing all of this while 
playing the nation’s No. 5-ranked strength of 
schedule — ahead of teams like No. 1 Kansas, No. 9 Kentucky and No. 10 Xavier — and the 
country’s sixth-most difficult non-conference 
schedule.
Before Saturday’s win over LSU, it felt as if 
Mike White’s team was trending backwards. Even though Florida is only a year and a half removed from a Final Four appearance, it ap-peared to be a program settling in for a rebuild-ing era after a decade of expectations that resid-ed somewhere between a Sweet 16 appearance 
and an NCAA title.
Florida’s 10-5 record three games into con-
ference play appears indicative of the record 
Florida will have by the end of this season: around five games above .500, likely left out of the NCAA Tournament, and possibly, at best, with an invitation to the NIT.
But right now it’s still too soon to tell.Florida is not a great team, but its defensive 
metrics have been too good and its schedule too strong to say that it is a bad one. And even with its inability to even put up just-average numbers on offense — it ranks last in the SEC in three out of five possible offensive catego-ries — somewhere beneath this inconsistent Gator squad is an elite defensive team that is still struggling to consistently show it.
It may not happen in a couple weeks, or a 
couple months.
But there are signs, statistics and a growing 
body of evidence that White’s plan for an elite defensive unit will come to fruition, and sooner rather than later. COLUMN,  from pg 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Florida coach Mike White reacts to a play during UF's 68-62 win over LSU on Jan. 9, 2016, in the O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs on the balance beam during the 2015 
Southeastern Conference Championships.
GYM,  from pg 13UF hopes to lessen pressure of four-peat
“It is just knowing that 
anything and everything that 
happens in our lives makes us 
the person we are. W e want to 
build on that day after day.”
Jenny Rowland
UF gymnastics coach16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 11, 2016
1
1312111098765432
PLEASE MAKE SURE THE PHONE NUMBER, 
SPELLING AND CONTACT INFO IS CORRECT.
APPROVING THIS ART, MEANS YOU AGREE THAT THE PRINTED INFORMATION IS EXACT
ad print colors will vary 
slightly due to the paper 
difference between 
proofs and final printing.Review your artwork carefully. Client 
approval confirms accuracy in the ad. 
The Alligator is NOT  responsible for 
errors or omissionsRUN DATE :__________________
REP :
APPROVED AS IS
APPROVED WITH CHANGES
Approved by _____________________
NEEDS CHANGESRun With Us For Results You Can See
Contact Your Sales Rep 
Today: 352-376-4482
Fun and Fitness is a section of the Alligator dedicated 
to giving students tips on healthy living and exercise.DEADLINE
Wednesday, 
February 3rdRUN DATE
Wednesday, 
February 10th
OVER THE HILL
UF guard Kasey Hill drives into the paint during Florida’s 68-62 win over LSU on Saturday in 
the O’Connell Center. Next up, the Gators will take on T exas A&M this Tuesday at 7 p.m.
Aaron Albright / Alligator StaffTHIS WEEK 
IN UF SPORTS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 12
Men’s Basketball at T exas A&M
 SEC Network | 7 p.m.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14
Women’s Basketball vs. Georgia
 SEC Network+ | 7 p.m.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15
Women’s T ennis
 UNLV Invite | All Day
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15
Gymnastics vs. UCLA
 Streaming on WatchESPN| 6:45 p.m.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 16
Men’s Basketball at Ole Miss
 ESPN2 | 8 p.m.