We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 46 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
Del Rio settling into role
The quarterback is hoping to beat Georgia in his 
ﬁ  fth start, pg. 14
PSU members discuss polysexuality
They talked about the stereotypes, pg. 4
Former UF professor talks desegregation
He spoke about the history of education for African-Americans, pg. 5A Madden aﬀ  air
See our photo story from a local Steve Madden event, pg. 3
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 3,500 people cast their bal-
lots Monday on the ﬁ  rst day of early voting 
in Alachua County.
The Millhopper Branch Library had the 
most voters, with 1,327 people registered, said Pam Carpenter, the county’s Supervi-sor of Elections, citing preliminary early 
voting numbers. At the two other early vot-
ing locations, the Supervisor of Elections 
Ofﬁ  ce and the Tower Road Branch Library, 1,067 and 1,159 voters registered, respec-tively.
No voting errors were reported any-
where in the county, she said.
In an average presidential election, Carpenter said voter turnout is usually be-tween 70 and 80 percent. 
This year, during an especially polariz-
ing presidential election, she’s expecting it to be closer to 80 percent, she said.
“It’s looking like a really busy day right 
now,” she said. “We’re really excited.”
At the Millhopper Branch Library, cars 
were backed up on Northwest 43rd Street as voters waited to park. 
At about 3 p.m., Rosa Martin left the 
elections ofﬁ  ce after voting. At 72 years old, she said she’s voted in every general election since she was 21. To her, voting is 
her civic duty.
That’s why on Election Day, she’ll be 
helping others vote as a poll worker.
“A lot of people fought a long time for 
these rights,” she said.
On Monday afternoon, UF College Dem-
ocrats and For Florida’s Future shuttled 
students from UF’s campus to the elections ofﬁ  ce to vote, a program that will last for First day of early voting sees more than 3,500 votes 
SEE VOTING,  PAGE 8
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
PUMPKIN WAGON
Ben Kuhn, 2, visited the pumpkin patch at the Gainesville Church of God with his mother, Brenda, on Monday evening.  “We came there right after day care, because Ben wanted to see the tractor, ” Brenda Kuhn said.
THE HEALTH CARE CENTER 
WORKS TO PROMOTE AN 
INCLUSIVE ATMOSPHERE. 
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Free condoms at UF have helped put the 
university in the top 15 of a national ranking.
In the 11th annual Trojan Sexual Health 
Report Card Rankings, UF ranked 13 out of 140 universities and colleges nationwide. 
The report looks at the sexual health resourc-es and information available to students, wrote Sophia Feleke, a public relations repre-sentative from Edelman, a communications 
marketing ﬁ  rm, in an email.
Bert Sperling, the lead researcher of the 
report, grades the schools on 11 categories, 
which include the availability of contracep-tives and HIV testing on campuses, she said.
“Sperling’s BestPlaces researchers collect-
ed extensive data via student health center representatives,” Feleke, who gathered the information from Sperling, said.
Catherine A. Seemann, the communica-
tions coordinator at the Student Health Care Center, said organizations like GatorWell, the 
SHCC and the Counseling & Wellness Center 
work to promote positive sexual health.
Seemann said the health care center 
works to create a more inclusive atmosphere.
“One of the big things we’ve done — we 
did this a couple years ago — was we sepa-rated sex assigned at birth, which we have to have in order to bill insurance for certain services, and gender identity,” Seemann said.
The center also gives out free condoms 
and lubricants to promote safe sex, she said.  
By working with UF organizations like 
LGBTQ Affairs and Pride Student Union, Seemann said she hopes to get the university ranked higher.
“Obviously, like everything at UF, we 
wanna get in the top 10,” she said. Free condoms, resources push UF into top 15 in sexual health  By Isabella Limonta
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students in UF’s class of 2015 
owe about $9,000 less than the 
average college graduate.
Recent college graduates had 
an average of $30,000 in debt, and UF graduates averaged $21,028, wrote Donna Kolb, the senior associate director for the UF Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial 
Affairs, in an email.
Statewide, the average debt 
was $23,379, according to a study 
from the Institute for College Ac-
cess and Success.
For Karoline Gutierrez, a 
21-year-old UF senior, the debt is 
worth it to get a degree in applied physiology and kinesiology from 
what she called the best school 
in the state. Despite this, she said she stresses about the $23,000 she already owes, only halfway through her ﬁ  nal year.
“I could have stayed in Mi-
ami at the community college or (Florida International University) 
and had much more of my tuition 
— if not all — paid for,” Gutier-rez said. “But I wanted to chal-lenge myself and add more diver-sity to my experiences.”
Gutierrez said she hopes she’ll 
be able to pay off her degree loans when she’s a doctor.
“This is supposed to be the 
time of my life, and I don’t want to give up any opportunities be-cause of money I don’t have now but will have in the future,” she said.
Kolb said she expects students 
like Gutierrez to be able to pay off loans. 
“UF is committed to keeping 
costs low and assisting our stu-dents by advising them on re-sponsible borrowing,” Kolb said.  UF student debt below 
the national averageCAMPUSNo voting errors were reportedSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  63°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Has integration failed in 
Florida?
Flagler College professor 
Michael Butler will be speak-ing about his book “Beyond Integration: The Black 
Freedom Struggle in Escambia 
County, Florida, 1960-1980” 
on Wednesday at noon in Pugh Hall, Room 210, as part of the 
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Brown Bag series. The book is a new interpreta-tion of the civil rights move-ment in Florida, and it places police brutality, Confederate imagery and white resistance at the center of the narrative. Book signing and light refresh-ments will be provided. More information can be found at oral.history.ufl.edu.
RUB Entertainment’s Rock ‘n’ 
TalkElvis Presley is one of the biggest icons in music his-tory. Since releasing his first album 60 years ago, he has left his mark on American culture in a big way. The UF College of Journalism and Communications professor David Carlson will be giving a talk on Elvis and his con-tributions to rock ‘n’ roll and society. This event will take place on Wednesday in the Reitz Union, Room 3320, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Light refresh-ments will be served. 
Sparks and APIA Photography 
WorkshopHave you ever wanted to learn more about working a digi-tal single-lens reflex camera? Come join Sparks Magazine and Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs as they host a workshop all about photog-raphy. You will not only learn about using DSLR cameras, but you will also have the chance to practice in and around the meeting location. You are en-couraged to bring your own camera, as this is a major part of the workshop. Let your cre-ative juices flow and learn how you can share your voice, ex-perience and story through art. This workshop should encour-age APIA-identified individu-als to enter submissions into this year’s anthology, which will explore the various taboos that are encountered in their lives. Explore past volumes of anthology at apia.multicultur-al.ufl.edu/programs/antholo-
gy. The event will be Thursday 
from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union, Room 2201.
RUB Entertainment pres-
ents Dumbledore’s Army 
Training Camp
Come out to Dumbledore’s 
Army Training Camp this Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 
p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom for butterbeer, a pho-
to booth, an obstacle course, do-it-yourself charm bracelets, potions, spell writing, riddles, 
raffle contests and much more.
APIA Study Spot
Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs Study Spot is 
a time designated every Friday 
from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. at APIA 
Affairs in the Reitz Union, Room 2201, to honor noble silence for students, staff and faculty while engaging in their study. APIA’s hope is to pro-vide a space where members of the UF community can engage in productive academic activ-ity. The education team strives to support the community through knowledge, which in-cludes taking care of our stu-dent community members by giving them a space to focus on professional and academic education. Each Study Spot will feature a tutor who will be in the space as a resource for any students in need. The tu-tors will range from all subject matters, giving students of all disciplines an opportunity to learn and grow. 
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival will take place Saturday  from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be food, enter-tainment and more than 200 vendors selling arts and crafts. On Saturday, there will be an auction of donated items from vendors from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. For more information, email micafest@micanopyfallfesti-val.org or call 352-466-7026.
Glam Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsGainesville's largest indie craft show is accepting applications for its Dec. 4 event. Artists and crafters who make unique, giftable goods are encouraged to apply. The application dead-line is Sunday. Apply online at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Free English classes
   The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English class-
es Tuesdays until Nov. 8 
from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at 
the Alachua County Library 
Millhopper Branch. Anyone 
looking to improve his or her conversational English can at-
tend. For more information, 
visit latinawomensleague.org.
What do we talk about 
when we talk about Toxic 
Masculinity?
This is referring to the worst 
parts of society’s prevailing definition of what makes a man and the gender expres-
sion that follows. On Friday, 
there will be a facilitated dia-
logue on toxic masculinity, its root causes and how it mani-fests in our everyday lives. Participants, identifying as masculine and non-masculine alike, will be able to share their experiences and share how toxic masculinity has played a part in their lives. Participants will analyze current events un-der this framing and reflect on experiences as they attempt to deconstruct masculinity. There will be complimentary food from  Einstein Bros. Bagels. It is located in the Rainbow Suite in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs Suite on the second floor of the Reitz Union. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 46
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Register Here: www.cme.hsc.usf.edu/gambling
Everyday compulsive gamblers and those they adversely affect 
present in doctors offices, emergency rooms and elsewhere with symptoms never attributed to gambling. Despite research associating poor health and pathological gambling with alcoholism and substance abuse, rarely is the association between poor health and pathological gambling made. Chronic stress, a sedentary lifestyle and heavy exposure to secondhand smoke are also contributing factors to illness within the pathological gambling 
contributing factors to illness within the pathological gambling 
population. This program features important information designed for medical and other students in healthcate fields to recognize and effectively treat patients with pathological gambling disorder.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left: Naﬁ  ra Harris, 19, a Santa Fe College sociology student, takes a picture of her best friend 
T anza Ellis, 30, with actress, model and singer Julissa Bermudez at Dillard’s on Monday evening during the Steve Madden X Dillard’s event.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Madi Wallace, 13, tries on different shoes at Dillard’s on Monday evening. Wallace went to the Steve Madden X Dillard’s event to ﬁ  nd boots for winter.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left: Sam Hasna, 22, a Santa Fe College graphic design student and beauty adviser at Dillard’s, puts lipstick on Alysia Scott, 18, a Santa Fe College business student, on Monday evening at Dillard’s.
A MADDEN AFFAIR
 SHOE DESIGNER STEVE 
MADDEN TOLD OF THE 
MAKING OF HIS BRAND.
By Janine Wolf 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
American shoe designer and 
businessman Steve Madden spoke 
to a crowd of about 330 UF students 
about entrepreneurship, fashion and his career Monday in the Norman Hall auditorium. Madden later host-
ed an event at Dillard’s.
The free event, held by Colleg-
eFashionista and UF’s Retail Soci-ety, began with the founder of Col-legeFashionista, Amy Levin, asking 
Madden about the early foundation of his iconic brand.
“I instantly fell in love with wom-
en’s shoes,” Madden said. “It was a magical moment.”
After talking about his brand’s 
success, Madden also discussed the loneliness that comes with running a business. 
He also touched on his 30-month 
term in prison for a securities fraud in 2000, which he recalled as “an ad-
venture.”
Madden said his business is a re-
sult of his passion for his work. 
“You have to love what you’re 
doing,” he said. 4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
By Kendal Barker
Alligator Contributing Writer
More students are using UF’s 
Counseling & Wellness Center, fol-
lowing a national rise in reported mental health issues on college campuses.
The percentage of college stu-
dents struggling with serious men-tal health issues has risen in recent years, according to a national sur-vey conducted by the American College Counseling Association. 
But Meggen Sixbey, the asso-
ciate director at the center, said she doesn’t think mental health is getting worse, but as people learn about the symptoms of men-tal health issues, they are seeking help. The number of students us-ing the center has risen as a result. 
“There is a destigmatization 
of mental health and our campus 
and country in general is doing a 
better job of training people to be 
eyes and ears and recognize signs 
of distress,” she said. 
Last year, the center counseled 
4,401 new student clients, and this 
year the number has risen to 4,764 
new student clients, Sixbey said. 
For students who don’t go to 
the center, Jen Day Shaw, the UF 
Dean of Students, said U Matter, 
We Care will reach out to them.
“Because we aren’t called a 
counseling center — we’re a care team — sometimes it can be less intimidating for students to come to us first,” she said. 
For the last 15 months, UF’s 
center has also worked with 12 
different college and university 
counseling centers in a statewide 
suicide awareness intervention. 
To do research on how to improve 
care, the center is holding discus-
sion groups. 
There are more than 1,000 
suicides on college campuses per year, according to a report by Em-
ory University.
“For the first time we are try-
ing to get the student voice in this mental health conversation,” Six-
bey said.UF Counseling & Wellness Center 
sees rise in number of new patientsAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
LOADING FOR CLASS
Brandon Fleming, a 20-year-old UF construction management major, drives a skid steer for the first 
time as a requirement for one of his classes on Monday morning outside Rinker Hall. Fleming said it was part of his attendance grade and that it was fun.
THEY TALKED ABOUT BISEXUALITY, 
PANSEXUALITY AND POL YSEXUALITY. 
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Carolyna Guillen can say she likes multiple foods, 
but once she tells people she is attracted to more than 
one gender, some don’t believe her. 
“When I sit here and say I like multiple genders, 
people have a problem,” said the UF microbiology and 
cell science junior, who identifies as pansexual. 
More than 50 members of UF’s Pride Student Union 
gathered Monday night at Ustler Hall to discuss com-
mon stereotypes and biases toward people who are at-tracted to more than one gender. Students who identify as bisexual, pansexual or polysexual spoke about their experiences with their sexuality. 
Guillen, 21, said it’s important to talk about poly-
sexual identities because the group doesn’t get much 
attention in the media and within the LGBTQ+ com-munity. 
“A lot of the feedback that we get from our general 
body is that they feel erased or neglected,” said Guil-
len, PSU’s president. 
The group discussed stereotypes including girls 
coming out as bisexual for attention, bisexual people are transphobic and that individuals attracted to trans-gender people are automatically pansexual. 
When Liana Moss, a UF zoology senior, is in LG-
BTQ+ spaces, she identifies as pansexual, but she said it’s easier to tell straight people she’s bisexual.
“And I don’t have to explain that I’m not attracted 
to cooking utensils,” the 21-year-old said. 
She said bisexuality and pansexuality should be ad-
dressed to combat negative stereotypes. 
“If you’re a bi female, everyone assumes you’re 
straight; if you’re a bi male, everyone assumes you’re gay,” she said. “Everyone expects us to like men.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Pride Student Union members 
discuss polysexuality stereotypesBy Renee Castro
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Zachary Sandoval spent about 
an hour preparing sloppy joes for 
30 families of pediatric cancer pa-
tients Wednesday. 
He was one of seven volun-
teers who gathered in the kitchen of the Ronald McDonald House of 
Gainesville, located on Southwest 
14th Street, to feed families of the 
patients. By 6:30 p.m., parents filed in line, glass plates in hand, 
as they got ready to eat dinner pre-
pared by the UF students. 
Since 2010, members of the 
Footprints Buddy and Support 
Program, a UF student-run volun-teer program, has been feeding the 
parents and guardians of children 
in UF Health Shands Children’s 
Hospital. All of the children are in Unit 42, the home of the pediatric 
hematology unit and the oncology 
unit.
The students prepare meals 
about twice a month, Sandoval said. About a month ago, the vol-
unteers made a s’mores pancake 
breakfast on a Saturday morning. 
UF students started the group 
to give one-on-one support for kids from birth to 12 years old 
who have been diagnosed with 
terminal illnesses, said Caroline 
Wojtas, a UF Spanish and biology 
senior. The cost of feeding about 
30 people varies from $50 to $60.
To raise money to buy ingre-
dients, Footprints has partnered 
with other restaurants, including 
Chipotle and Olive Garden, to hold 
fundraisers, the 21-year-old said. 
After spending so much time 
at the hospital, many parents and guardians get back to the house and are too exhausted to cook, she 
said.
“A lot of the families are with 
their kids all day, and the last 
thing they want to do is come back and cook a meal,” Wojtas said.  
Sandoval, a UF biology and 
psychology sophomore, started 
volunteering his freshman year. 
Though the 19-year-old had never 
volunteered with children before, Sandoval said he wanted to make 
sure children in the cancer unit had as memorable of a childhood 
as he did. 
“The fact that these kids are 
stuck in the hospital when they 
should be out in the field making memories is why I want to go and 
help them create different memo-ries,” he said.
Volunteers work in Unit 42 
once a week for three hours, sit-
ting with kids, playing games with 
them and telling them stories. 
“I want them to try and feel like 
they’re enjoying their childhood 
still,” he said. “I want them to for-
get that they are in a hospital.”
Brittany Edelmann, a 20-year-
old UF nursing junior, said she 
has been working with Footprints 
since August 2015. 
While working with a boy at 
the hospital, he told her he dreamt 
of being a tattoo artist like his un-
cle. He then drew her a “tattoo” 
dinosaur and heart on her gloves before telling her that he loved 
her, she said.
“While the tattoos may have 
not been permanent, the memory 
left a mark on both myself and the 
little boy,” Edelmann said. “That 
is truly everlasting.”UF Footprints prepares 
meals for Shands families
Renee Castro / Alligator
From left: Zachary Sandoval, a UF biology and psychology sophomore, 
cooks onions while Grant Filowitz, a UF graduate student, browns beef on a nearby stove at the Ronald McDonald House of Gainesville. Both are Footprints Buddy and Support Program volunteers.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Alexa Lorenzo 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A Gainesville catering company has 
just ﬁ  nished delivering about 1,000 
healthy meals to families of children receiving chemotherapy.
Eat The 80’s co-owner Carlee Mar-
hefka and her husband, Chris, devel-oped the idea of a healthy meal de-livery service while training clients at their gym. Marhefka said gym-goers would constantly make excuses as to why they didn’t eat well. 
They knew they wanted to help 
others with their business, she said. In 2015, Eat The 80 started its Meals 
that Heal Program, through which staff 
members deliver healthy meals to fami-lies at UF Health Shands Hospital and North Florida Regional Medical Center. 
“We knew by doing that we were 
giving them something that would re-ally nourish them and also something that was going to help them save time so that they could spend it with the 
people they care about,” she said. In January 2015, the company 
raised $3,000 through a Facebook cam-
paign, Marhefka said. 
In a few months, the Climb for Can-
cer Foundation awarded Eat The 80 a grant to continue work without hav-ing to use company proﬁ  ts. Eat The 80 serves 25 meals a week for free, Mar-hefka said. 
Sarah Houder, the executive assis-
tant at Eat The 80, said the members of the family always have big smiles on their faces when she and the team de-liver the meals. 
“A lot of times, the families are hav-
ing quiet time or the kids aren’t quite feeling up for chatting,” Houder said. “But they are always really grateful to 
receive the meals, and they always say 
thank you so many times. It feels really great.” 
Marhefka said she plans to keep do-
ing the meals as long as she can. 
“This is something that we enjoy 
doing, and if we are able to give back we are going to continue to do that,” she said.  Catering company feeds 
cancer patient familiesHE SPOKE ABOUT 
THE HISTORY OF 
EDUCATION FOR 
AFRICAN- AMERICANS.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
On Monday, a crowd of about 
70 people learned about the his-
tory of race and education from a key player in the desegregation of Florida’s schools.
Walter Smith, a former UF 
professor who attended Gibbs Junior College when it was still an extension of an all-African-American high school in the Tampa area, spoke in-depth about the evolution of segregat-ed junior colleges in Florida.
“So often we take things for 
granted,” he said, speaking at the Santa Fe College Fine Arts 
building. “More than that, we 
don’t even think about how we got to where we are.”
The former president of the 
historically black Florida Agri-cultural and Mechanical Uni-versity, Smith outlined the his-tory of an evolving education for African-Americans — beginning with slaves learning to read — and encouraged audience mem-bers to do their own research.
“Learn some things,” he said. 
“That’s when you will really ap-preciate America and what it is. It’s important not to let your his-tory die.”
He discussed Florida’s 12 
original black junior colleges and the people who led them through their ﬁ  rst years. From 
Pensacola Junior College, now 
Pensacola State College, to schools in Tampa and Broward County, Smith discussed educa-tion across the state. 
In the audience, people nod-
ded in agreement as Smith en-couraged students to practice the “three D’s” — dedication, discipline and determination — to make it through their careers.
Kendall Pearce listened as 
her classmates scribbled notes on paper during the talk. The 18-year-old Santa Fe nursing freshman said she attended the event to get extra credit in her American History class.
“We’ve been talking a lot 
about segregation in the ’20s in history and in humanities, too,” she said. “It’s pretty relevant right now, but I’m mostly here for the extra credit. Midterms hit 
me hard.”
Although many of her class-
mates left during the talk, which 
lasted an hour and a half, Pearce stayed until the end, saying she was glad she attended.
“I learned that he did his re-
search, and he really knows a lot,” she said.
She said she agreed most 
with Smith when he said stan-dardized testing should not represent the whole career of high-school honors students and keep them from getting into col-lege. 
“I identify with that on a spir-
itual level,” she said.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org 
 Former UF professor talks desegregationThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Cherish your time in Gainesville while you can 
This past week I received my ﬁ  rst grad-
uate school acceptance letter, and I was subsequently hit by the realiza-tion that this will likely be my last year in this wonderfully bizarre town. 
I was always aware of this possibility in the back of my mind, but without substantial proof to back it up, I merely rested on the as-sumption that I would be in this town, well, forever. When your future is so devoid of any certainty, it’s easy to ﬁ  ll in the void with your present life and assume that every day will simply be a repeat of your current one. Now, imbued with the knowledge that my time in Gainesville is ﬁ  nite, I can feel the nostalgia creeping up on me as it colors my perspective of this town ever so slightly.
It’s not that all of a sudden I feel like weeping when-
ever I think of my semi-inevitable departure, as that would be taking this whole senior-year thing a bit too seriously. Instead, I’m merely a bit more aware of the transitory nature of my surroundings. When I ﬁ  rst ar-rived in Gainesville back in 2013, every stately class-room, quaint coffee shop and grimy bar felt entirely new and permanent. They were all so radically different from the suburban strip malls I had grown up with, and I cherished the uncharted territory while simultaneous-ly promising myself I would explore it all. Nearly three-and-a-half years later, there are still plenty of things I haven’t done and places I haven’t explored. But that doesn’t prevent me from thinking about the experiences I’ve had in this town and the buildings they’re intrinsi-cally linked to.
Leonardo’s By The Slice will always make me think 
of my ﬁ  rst week in Gainesville, when I was ushered around Sorority Row among an ambling horde of blondes in wedges and made my ﬁ  rst undergraduate friend as I inhaled garlic knots. Driving by (now closed) The Jones, I laugh at how my friends and I were always amazed that there was never anyone at our former favorite restaurant, only to realize later on it had a horrendous track record of health code violations. The Backyard at Boca Fiesta will forever be as-sociated with Monday night karaoke, drunk-en renditions of any and every David Bowie song and accidentally attending a women’s liberation rally my sophomore year.
There are so many experiences I know 
will stay in Gainesville whenever I end up 
leaving. I’ll miss going to Midtown, even though we all know it’s the worst, because of the disturbingly cheap gin and tonics and the knowledge that you will unde-niably see everyone you don’t want to see (including but not limited to ex-boyfriends, teaching assistants and people from your hometown). I’ll miss hearing the dis-tant tinkling of Hare Krishna bells from practically ev-ery corner of campus as I speed-walk to my next class. I’ll miss waking up on Saturday mornings to the sounds of the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band practicing on Norman Field and knowing that the chaos of gameday is waiting for me outside my door.
All of these meditations may seem a bit premature, 
considering it’s only October, but I know before I real-ize it I’ll blink and it’ll be May. Hell, I’m still convinced I was a bright-eyed freshman just a few weeks ago. But regardless, the point is that a lot of the experiences and places you take for granted in this town are undeni-ably ﬂ  eeting, so perhaps we should cherish Gainesville whenever possible. Knowing how quickly this town can change, I have no doubt the Gainesville I know now will be replaced by something slightly different in no time at all.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.The revolution will 
not be televised
It’s no secret to those of us in Gainesville that Cox Communi-cations sucks. But elsewhere in the U.S., there are plenty of service options. If you don’t like watching TV while it’s rain-ing outside, you can opt with DirecTV (owned by AT&T). If you have no regard for your bandwidth, Sling TV might be 
for you. If you’re a masochist who likes being treated like s--- by customer service reps, Dish Network is right up your alley.
So with news surfacing this week that AT&T is interested in 
purchasing Time Warner Inc. for a mere $85.4 billion, a national 
conversation has sparked. It seems now that we’re one step clos-er to having a completely uniform media space in terms of tele-vision. It’s already devastating that six companies own virtually 
everything you watch on television (General Electric Co., News 
Corp., The Walt Disney Co., Viacom Inc., Time Warner Inc. and CBS), now there is a direct merger between one of the country’s most prominent communication companies and one of those six massive content providers.
Time Warner includes such networks like CNN, HBO, Car-
toon Network, Adult Swim, TNT, TBS, TruTV and the CW. Letting AT&T have the authority to control and manipulate the content on those channels is a massive conﬂ  ict of interest, for it 
could advertise and manipulate viewers simply by inundation. 
Moreover, it’s the ﬁ  rst step in a more controlled and restricted media. Not by the government, which really only owns the uni-versally ignored C-SPAN networks, but by a private corporation.
Moreover, in terms of economic practice, this merger raises 
some pretty hefty red ﬂ  ags. With the uniﬁ  cation of these two companies, they would be able to raise prices for their services and limit what consumers are able to watch. As Sen. Bernie Sanders noted, this deal would “mean higher prices and fewer 
choices for the American people.” Even vice presidential can-
didate Tim Kaine noted that he had “concerns and questions” about this merger, furthering that “less concentration, I think, is generally helpful, especially in the media.”
For once, Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump 
is on the right side of history with this one. He said, “As an example of the power structure I’m ﬁ  ghting, AT&T is buying Time Warner and thus CNN, a deal we will not approve in my administration because it’s too much concentration of power in 
the hands of too few.”
AT&T, who has its hands on the cellphone industry (both as 
AT&T and as Cricket Wireless) and the TV industry (as DirecTV 
and as U-verse), has been in trouble for existing as a monopoly before. In 1982, U.S. regulators destroyed the AT&T monopoly. Ever since, it has been trying to put itself together again. This is simply an extension of that policy to both have control over the industry as well as increase revenue. In terms of revenue, AT&T is the largest telecommunication company in the world.
So if this undeniably bad merger is so universally hated 
among our political leadership, how did it even get this far? How is there a system in place by leaders in which this is even a pos-sibility? It’s quite simple. Companies like AT&T and Time War-ner funnel obscene amounts of money into super PACs, which in turn help candidates get elected into public ofﬁ  ce. If we want massive deals like this to stop, we need to enact some type of campaign ﬁ  nance reform. According to the Center for Respon-sive Politics, AT&T is the second-largest donor to U.S. political 
campaigns.
It’s good to hear that both sides of the aisle are apprehensive 
to come to terms with this deal and are trying to stop even more 
intensive corporate control of media. However, we as American constituents and consumers must do something about this ab-surd attempt to control what we watch and how much it costs to watch it. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Today’s student is someone who has 
to balance classes, a number of ex-tracurricular activities and, last but 
certainly not least, ﬁ  nd a way to 
pay rent. Students who have multi-
ple responsibilities other than their classes are two times more likely to drop out as 
opposed to those who don't. This statis-
tic is startling, because it is clear that al-most every student has outside obligations to balance. Our view of what the average college student looks like is generally far 
from reality. Forty percent of students in 
the U.S. attend college on a part-time basis, while the average student works 19 hours a week. About 40 percent of students are 
above the age of 25, and the number of stu-
dents in minority groups attending higher education institutions is on the rise. These statistics prove the laws and practices in place pertaining to students and college 
need to be re-evaluated and changed. A shift in policy to represent the 
ever-changing college student would assist millions of individu-
als throughout the country.
Throughout the past couple of 
months, I have been interview-
ing a number of students, asking 
them how their college experi-
ence is not “typical,” and I have received a variety of answers. One student said he has not gone home for a holiday in the past 
two years because he views time off from 
school as a chance to make more money so he can get ahead on rent. Another student mentioned her lack of knowledge about 
loans cost her dearly; she will end up pay-
ing more than $35,000 for a $7,000 loan. 
Although money is an issue that typi-
cally arises, there are also other issues that inﬂ  uence a student’s life. One example is 
of a mother taking classes at UF who strug-gles to ﬁ  nd someone to look after 
her child while she is in class. She sometimes ﬁ  nds herself hav-
ing to bring her daughter to class 
with her so she doesn’t have to miss any class. While some stu-dents are lucky enough to have 
parents or guardians helping 
them along their journey, there are far too many students who feel they are alone in ﬁ  guring out the complexities of higher educa-
tion.
The variety of issues students face is 
vast and needs to be taken into consid-eration when thinking about who today’s 
students truly are. If there is going to be 
improvement in keeping students on track with getting their degrees, there needs to be a shift in policy at both the national and local levels. In the upcoming presidential 
election, presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump have the duty 
to address the problems in the higher edu-cation system. From addressing the stag-
gering costs of attending a university to 
providing information so a student can easily compare institutions he or she is considering, is vital. But simply address-
ing this will not help the millions of stu-
dents that are affected by an extremely complicated higher education system. On a school-to-school basis, there is action that can be taken to help students be more pre-
pared for their lives after graduation. Pro-
grams that get students involved in their community are not only good for students but the general public as well. If steps like 
these are taken, I believe many students 
will be able to complete their degree in a timely fashion while also being better pre-pared for the post-graduation world.
Jordan Morang is a political science 
junior.
I’ve developed a habit of taking every pun as a personal attack against my in-telligence.
Puns are jokes. They focus on lan-
guage and wordplay. They’re fun, and 
they’re thoughtful. Puns are also very easy to execute because the joke lies solely in the 
language. Relaying a pun doesn’t ask much 
of your comic timing or delivery, so puns are accessible. Puns are generally more clever than funny, but they encourage us to look through our vocabulary and make connec-
tions; as with all jokes, they’re brain-teasers. 
Puns are good.
I don’t like puns as much as you’d think. 
Within a work of art, puns are totally ﬁ  ne. If 
you’ve ever read the comic strip “Pearls Be-
fore Swine,” you understand just how much fun unraveling a pun can be. My problem with puns lie not in their structure or con-tent, but rather with how they’re used in so-
cial situations.
I don’t like puns in casual conversation for this reason: They ask far too 
much of the audience. Intellectual stimulation is important, but when 
you relay a pun, you’re not doing 
it to enrich anyone’s life. All too often, you’re cracking a pun to draw attention to just how clever you are. In the guise of a joke, 
you’re showing off.
Now, all comedy is puzzle-
solving. Every joke you share with 
someone is going to reﬂ  ect your wit or your 
creative capability. That’s the nature of art. 
Comedy in social situations is a double-
edged sword, because even as you’re spread-
ing joy and laughter to others, you’re engag-ing in this odd power play in which you 
splay your intelligence in front of everyone. 
That’s the nature of art. But the people who rattle off puns tend to focus on the latter: splaying that intelligence. This is ﬁ  ne, too. It 
can get a bit annoying when someone derails 
a conversation to draw attention to them-selves, but it’s not necessarily toxic. What is toxic, ultimately, is when your jokes leave your audience vulner-able.
Comedy is puzzle-solving, and 
if the audience cannot solve the puzzle, then they won’t get the joke. Like metaphors and allusions in works of literature, jokes can ﬂ  y 
right over people’s heads if they 
don’t have the proper information going in. That’s ﬁ  ne. An educated 
joke can be as potent as an allusion, and the 
audience that understands that joke may 
become that much wiser for it. However, outside the realms of art, jokes that require extensive knowledge do nothing but alienate their audiences.
When you make a pun directly to another 
person, you’re also saying, “I get this joke, do you?” You’re not relaying a pun to bring joy. You’re relaying a pun to splay your in-
telligence and undermine the audience’s. In 
the best-case scenario, the comedian and the audience are equally knowledgeable, but points go to the comedian for coming up with the pun. In the worst-case scenario, the audience doesn’t get the joke and the co-
median looks that much more clever. This is 
pretty toxic. In this situation, the audience is incredibly vulnerable, and the comedian has nothing to lose. In this sense, puns are told at the expense of the audience, which is a very 
unhealthy way to perform comedy.
It’s one thing to have a joke exist in a work 
of art, and it’s another thing to ask someone 
to solve a puzzle on the spot. Imagine chal-
lenging everyone you meet to a game of Su-
doku that you created. I’d be pretty salty.
It can be a puzzle in and of itself to un-
derstand why someone tells a joke. When they involve self-deprecating humor, are 
they looking for pity? When they perform 
slapstick, are they looking for attention? When they relay a pun, are they looking for power? Comedy is a puzzle in more ways 
than one.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineer-
ing junior. His column appears on Tuesdays.College students’ struggles are real, and they all need to be addressed
I’ve taken it a-pun myself to find a quality pun to put in this headlineGuest Column
Column
Jordon 
Morang
Speaking Out
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
the next two weeks. The groups picked up students 
from the parking lot near Anderson Hall and Little Hall, respectively.
UF College Democrats’ shuttles will operate be-
tween 10:30 a.m. and about 4 p.m., while For Flori-da’s Future run from 12:30 to 3 p.m., said Erin Jen-sen, the For Florida’s Future press assistant. Students can register for the program online or in person, she said.
As students and residents voted inside, Joseph Flu-
riach, 26, stood outside the elections ofﬁ  ce reminding voters of the importance of local politics.
“Don’t be discouraged at the national level,” said 
Fluriach, who was campaigning for Florida Rep. Keith Perry. “Your local representatives, more than any-thing, need you to come out and vote.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgVOTING,  from pg. 1Millhopper Library 
saw the most voters
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Alachua County residents wait to vote at the Millhopper Branch Library on the first day of early voting on Monday. 
By 4:22 p.m., there was about a 10-minute wait in line, and 1,045 people had voted at the location.
HE WAS ON TURLINGTON 
PLAZA AND PLAZA OF 
THE AMERICAS. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
Josh Gad chatted with students 
Monday about the importance of 
voting, taking photos with those 
who promised to vote.
The “Frozen” voice actor and 
comedian was on Turlington Pla-
za as part of Democratic presiden-
tial candidate Hillary Clinton’s 
early voting campaign in Flori-da. He walked around the Plaza of  the Americas during Krishna Lunch, talking to students about 
why they should cast an early 
ballot in the upcoming elections. 
Brett Fielder, 21, decided to stop on his way to class and talk to Gad after recognizing him from his role in “The Wedding Ringer.”
“We were really nervous to 
talk to him, but he just started talking to us,” the UF ﬁ  nance ju-nior  said. 
Fielder and his friends spoke 
with Gad for about ﬁ  ve minutes about UF, football and why it was important to vote. After talking to Gad, Fielder said he signed up to 
vote Monday.  
“He’s very personable,” he 
said. “He wants to be friends with you. I never met a celebrity like 
that, who just wants to talk to people.” 
Josh Levi, 19, was sitting and 
eating Krishna Lunch when Gad came up and introduced himself. 
“He was deﬁ  nitely very pas-
sionate about early voting,” the UF materials science and engi-
neering sophomore said.
Levi said he’s undecided, but 
talking to Gad made him lean 
more toward Clinton. By the end 
of the conversation, Levi was 
signed up to cast an early ballot Thursday. 
“He deﬁ  nitely was able to get 
some people to vote,” he said.  
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org ‘Frozen’ a ctor Josh Gad visits UF to encourage early voting
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Josh Levi, a 19-year-old UF materials science and 
engineering sophomore, poses with actor and comedian Josh Gad on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. “He was definitely passionate about early voting, ” Levi said.
“He deinitely was able to get 
some people to vote.”
Josh Levi 
UF student
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
THE GROUP HAS CHAPTERS AT 
FIVE FLORIDA UNIVERSITIES.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A new campaign called Florida Students 
Against Trump will be attempting to con-
vince UF students to vote. 
The group will focus on college students 
who support a third-party candidate or dis-
like presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, 
said Nate Lerner, the executive director for the Democratic Coalition Against Trump, the super PAC that announced the campaign. The campaign has chapters being formed at the University of Miami, the University of South Florida, Florida State University and the University of Central Florida. 
Lerner said the group aims to increase 
voter turnout and support for Clinton in Flor-ida, a major swing state. 
“We don’t have a lot of time, but we don’t 
even have to accomplish that much,” he said. “The support is there; millenials are the most progressive, most educated generation.” 
William Christou, a UF international stud-
ies and economics junior, said he was asked to be UF’s campus ambassador by a friend in the campaign. Christou said he plans on talk-
ing to students on campus about early voting 
and the importance of voting. 
Christou said he also wants to stress how 
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is unﬁ  t for ofﬁ  ce. 
“The biggest thing is to get people to 
vote,” the 20-year-old said. “As long as it’s not Trump, honestly.” 
He said college students should have their 
voices heard. 
“The people who are least likely to vote 
are going to be the people living with the consequences for the longest,” he said. “As young people, our input is often not heard.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   Florida Students Against 
Trump chapter forms at UF
By Amy Guzman
Alligator Contributing Writer
On the ﬁ  rst day of early voting in Alach-
ua County, a UF alumnus running for U.S. 
Congress led a march to the polls.
Democrat Kenneth “Ken” McGurn, who 
is running for a seat in Florida’s 3rd Con-
gressional District, and about a dozen of 
his supporters walked from McGurn’s cam-paign ofﬁ  ce to the Alachua County Supervi-sor of Elections Ofﬁ  ce, where they cast their 
votes.
For McGurn, who is facing Republican 
incumbent Ted Yoho and unafﬁ  liated can-
didate Tom Wells, the march was about getting the word out about early voting, which lasts until Nov. 6.
“If you vote early, you won’t forget to 
vote,” he said. “If you vote early, you won’t have to stand in a long line.”
District 3 encompasses Alachua, Brad-
ford, Clay, Putnam and Union counties, along with the upper half of Marion County.
A newcomer to the political arena, Mc-
Gurn said his platform centers on creating jobs, implementing solar energy and taking care of the district’s veterans. On the solar front, he said he plans to create thousands of new jobs in the industry.
“We’re going to make this the solar capi-
tal of the south,” McGurn said.
Sarah Barnes, the communications direc-
tor for McGurn’s campaign, said McGurn’s experience as a Vietnam War veteran and his revitalization of downtown Gainesville through property development molded him into an ideal leader.
“I’ve always known of Ken as a philan-
thropist in Gainesville, and I think it’s very bold and needed for him to run for Con-gress,” Barnes said.
“Some of the veterans are not receiving 
the care that they earn, and that affects me personally,” McGurn said. “I don’t need it, but somebody needs to stand up for them.” UF alumnus and congressional 
candidate leads march to polls
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease available. Nov. 1
1 Bed/1 Bath 559 month 500 dep.
Addison Lane Apts.
321-443-0412
Back Check/Proof of Income/Application
10-26-16-4-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
*****THE PUMPKIN PATCH*****
At Littlewood Elementary School
812 NW 34th St by Westside Park
M-F 3-7pm*****Sat-Sun 12-7pm
CASH ONLY****Close to Campus
10-25-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 12 AutosTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
2002 Toyota Rav4, clean title, all papers available, smoke free, no rust, no accidents, 2.0L I4 Engine, AWD, White with Tan , 112K miles. $2900 You can get in touch with me by phone at 3177218798      10-28-5-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
'03 Mini-Cooper S Blue+White 
73557 mi. $5900
352-219-6400      10-26-2-121998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatestStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-25-16-10-14
WANTED: TYPIST / ASSISTANT.
Must be local and reliable. 5-10 hrs/week. 
Flexible. Call after 6m, leave info 352-378-
9771    10-25-16-4-14
Part time. Must love to work with kids. Free 
training for teaching beginner Fencing Classes. No experience required. Must have own car. Pay $15 per hour with max monthly income of $480. Send resume to kkvols@floridafencingacademy.com     10-28-16-5-14
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ACROSS
1 __ for the course
4 Proverb
9 Wire fence
stickers
14 Winner of the
most 2016
Olympic medals
15 Prize founder16 Accustom (to)17 __ Tin Tin18 “We’re done
here. Please
leave”
20 For mature
viewers
22 Foot prettifier,
briefly
23 Miss. neighbor
24 Grape-Nuts
cereal brand
26 Big Board 
letters
30 Lone source of
local
entertainment
33 Pop in a glass34 Wonder
35 Longtime name
in Syrianleadership
36 Prereq for a
lifeguard
37 Fred Flintstone’s
boss
40 CBS logo41 Yoga position43 Conservationist’s
prefix
44 Part of 14-
Across: Abbr.
45 Eschew 
modernconveniences
49 Worrisome
grades
50 Misplace51 Tennis do-over52 Open house
offering
54 Great suffering57 Like the child of
your first cousin,to you
62 Great Lakes’ __
Canals
63 Baseball legend
Satchel
64 Dior skirt style
65 “__ the
President’s 
Men”
66 Does’ mates
67 Cares for
68 Sound on Old
MacDonald’sfarmDOWN
1 Sound of a
contented kitty
2 Great Wall setting
3 Deliver a tirade
4 Sometime soon5 “Let’s Make a
Deal” selection
6 __ Dhabi
7 Emerald, e.g.
8 Slip by9 Texas city of 1.3
million, familiarly
10 Consecrates with
oil
11 It may be unearned12 Compadre13 Clinch, with “up”19 Mythical
Himalayan
21 Singer Fitzgerald
24 Feline feet
25 Brunch servings
27 Ill-tempered
Looney Tunes
character
28 Persuaded29 Week or rear
add-on
30 “My bad!”31 Needlefish32 Scottish denial33 Nearly boil
37 Long March leader
in 1930s China
38 Tylenol target39 One may be
stubbed
42 Retirement fund
44 Belligerent god
46 Chimney part47 Word processing
categoryinvolving page
dimensions
48 Moves smoothly
53 Lodes and lodes54 Patch up55 Hershey’s
caramel candy56 Modern-day
carpe diem
spelled out at the
starts of 18-, 30-,
45- and 57-Across
57 Black __: covert
missions
58 D.C. ballplayer
59 Spy novel org.
60 “¡Viva el
matador!”
61 __ Scully, Dodger
announcer for 67
seasons
By John Lieb©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/25/1610/25/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 25, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatestIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's tennis players 
Josie Kuhlman and Belinda Woolcock took home a title at the ITA Regional Championships on Monday.Read the story on pg. 15.UF men's tennis duo wins title
Florida men's tennis freshman Johannes Ingildsen and sophomore Alfredo 
Perez won the doubles title at the ITA Regional Championship in T allahas-see on Monday. Ingildsen also advanced to the singles semifinals but lost to Georgia T ech's Cole Fiegel.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio was 8 years old 
when the Jacksonville Jaguars’ kicker gave him a black eye.
Del Rio, a Jaguars ball boy, and 
Josh Scobee, a rookie NFL place-
kicker, were playing catch on a 
windy day during practice at Alltel Stadium when Scobee’s pass came 
up short.
It skipped 10 yards in front of 
Del Rio and bounced into his face. 
Scobee, afraid he would get cut, pleaded with the boy not to tell 
his dad.
So when Jack Del Rio asked 
why his son had a black eye?
‘Ah, ran into a door,” Del Rio 
told him.
Del Rio is four games into a 
job as the starting quarterback for the Florida Gators, and his father  is the head coach of the Oakland 
Raiders, who beat the Jaguars on 
Sunday.
But Del Rio couldn’t make the 
one-and-a-half hour trek to Jack-
sonville to watch his dad’s team in 
person. He was too busy preparing for the football game he’ll be play-ing in Jacksonville on Saturday.
“Hopefully the Del Rio family 
can go 2-0,” the UF quarterback said.
Del Rio carries himself like a 
seasoned veteran, and a quick 
glance at his resume may fool you 
into thinking he is one. He has played at three schools — Ala-bama, Oregon State and now UF — and plans to graduate this year 
after he finishes the 16 credits he’s 
currently taking.
And yet, this weekend’s game 
against Georgia will be just the 
fifth start of his collegiate career.
“I’m learning a lot every game, 
good or bad,” Del Rio said. “I kind 
of have to pinch myself sometimes because I remember in high school 
I would just pray in bed: ‘Just let 
me play football at some level in college.’ 
“And (now) I’m the start-
ing quarterback for the Florida Gators.”
But while the redshirt sopho-
more had an impressive start to the season, he played his worst 
game at Florida less than two 
weeks ago in UF’s 40-14 win over Missouri.
He threw three interceptions 
and completed just 47.4 percent of Del Rio settling into role as Florida's starting quarterback
MEN'S BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Last season, redshirt senior Dorian 
Finney-Smith was the clear-cut leader in Florida’s frontcourt. 
His 14.7 points and 8.3 rebounds 
per game led the team, and he was by far the Gators’ most reliable defender. 
Finney-Smith, an All-Southeastern 
Conference player, had been through it all in his time at UF: a trip to the Final Four, an SEC Championship, a losing season and two head coaches. His departure from the squad at the end of last season left a gaping hole in Florida’s frontcourt as well as unan-
swered questions.
Who would take over his role at 
the forward position? Who would be 
the team’s go-to scorer, shooter and 
rebounder?
After the conclusion of Florida’s 
scrimmage on Friday afternoon, some 
of those questions may have been an-swered.Devin Robinson coming into his 
own in third year: Devin Robinson has largely struggled during his time at UF. The 6-foot-8, 195-pound junior 
averaged just nine points and 5.6 re-
bounds per game last season and found himself in and out of the start-ing lineup.
He lacked consistency.This preseason, he may have found 
it.
Robinson knocked down two three-
pointers to begin Friday’s scrimmage on his way to a team-high 23 points on 8-of-9 shooting, including 4-for-4 from beyond the arc.
“He’s shooting the ball well,” UF 
coach Mike White said. “He had a very good day.”
Robinson showed no signs of the 
stress fracture he sustained in his left 
foot at the end of last season, which 
kept him from testing his potential at the NBA Draft.
Gators looking to fill offensive holes before season startsAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio stands in the pocket during UF's 40-14 homecoming win over Missouri on Oct. 15 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16He'll make his fifth start on Saturday
Robinson
FOOTBALL14   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer 
A triumphant yell rang out 
across Alfred A. Ring Tennis Com-
plex Monday afternoon. But it didn’t come from a Gator.
After a nearly three-hour long 
match, Georgia freshman Elena Christofi took down Florida junior Josie Kuhlman in the singles final of the ITA Regional Champion-ships, a match UF coach Roland Thornqvist described as “top-five level tennis.” 
“(It) was definitely a heart-
breaker for me,” Kuhlman said. “I played well and played a good match and she just beat me.” 
Kuhlman jumped out to a 4-1 
lead over Christofi in the first set. But Christofi, who beat Florida’s Spencer Liang in the semifinals on Sunday, was able to tie the set at four.  The two eventually tied at 
six, sending the match into a tie-
breaker.
Two overhand hits by Christofi  
that went unanswered by Kuhlman 
gave Christofi the win, 7-6 (5).
After Kuhlman took the second 
set 6-2, the third set was sent into another tiebreaker.
Christofi eventually won 7-6 
(5), 6-2, 7-6 (4).
“I was really impressed by the 
sportsmanship in the singles finals this morning,” Thornqvist said. “They were playing their hearts out and they were telling each 
other ‘great shot’ when the other 
hit a winner. I wish the rest of the 
country could see that.”
Soon after, doubles duo Belin-
da Woolcock and Kuhlman faced 
Christofi and her doubles partner, 
Kennedy Shaffer. The Florida tan-
dem won 6-7 (2), 7-5, 10-8. 
“I think coming back after (the 
singles loss), I was just really moti-vated,” Kuhlman said
Woolcock had the game-win-
ning hit, sending it between the legs of Shaffer and claiming the doubles title for a second year in a row with Kuhlman.
“It’s a really good feeling being 
there for each other and being able to defend the title,” Kuhlman said.
The two will play in the ITA 
National Indoor Championships on Nov. 3.
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgFlorida duo takes doubles title
FOOTBALL 
FIVE TAKEAWAYS FROM COACH JIM MCELWAIN’S 
MONDAY PRESS CONFERENCEWOMEN’S TENNIS
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Belinda Woolcock serves during the ITA Regional Championships on Saturday at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
On Monday, Josie Kuhlman lost in the singles championship but won the doubles title.
Kuhlman lost in singles
1. Despite boasting one of the nation’s most productive secondaries — the Gators are tied for 14th in the nation with 10 interceptions — no individual Florida player was named a Jim Thorpe Award semifinalist. The award is presented annually to college football’s best defensive back by the Oklahoma Sports Hall of Fame, which announced the 16 semifinalists on Monday. Defensive backs Quincy Wilson, Jalen T abor and Marcus Maye were left off the list. When asked about the snub, Maye seemed  surprised and unconcerned. “It’s whatever, ” he said. “I’m just going out and making plays for my team and myself. ”
2. Jack Del Rio coached the Jacksonville Jaguars for nine years and won 68 games while doing so. But the veteran NFL coach and father of Florida quarterback Luke Del Rio doesn’t need to think too hard to remember the last time his team won at Everbank Field. It was this past Sunday, when his Oakland Raiders traveled cross-country and picked up a 33-16 win. He’ll be in Florida this week with his team as it prepares to play in T ampa this Sunday, which means he’ll be at the Florida-Georgia game on Saturday, where Luke is hoping to replicate his father’s results. “Hopefully the Del Rio family can go 2-0, ” Luke said.
3. This Saturday’s game will be Luke Del Rio’s first true rivalry game at Florida. The redshirt sophomore was injured for this season’s T ennessee game, and the annual contest with LSU was pushed back due to Hurricane Matthew. He said he’s not entirely sure what to expect from the Florida-Georgia game. “You never really know the rivalry until you play in it and get your feet wet, ” he said.
4. The Fresno State Bulldogs fired coach Tim DeRuyter on Sunday, and according to USA T oday’s Dan Wolken, UF offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier is “floating around” as a possible replacement. “I think it’s great, ” coach Jim McElwain said. “Someone (once) gave me an opportunity, and I’ll do anything I can to help (my staff) in any way that I can. ”
5. As a Montana native, the first rivalry game that came to McElwain’s mind on Monday was Montana-Montana State. “The ‘Cats-Griz game is as vicious a rivalry as you’ll ever be a part of, ” he said. He’s also been on the sideline for Auburn-Alabama, Michigan-Michigan State and Michigan State-Notre Dame. And going back to his days as a prep quarterback, the Sentinel High School alum still remembers the annual game against Hellgate. “That one was pretty special, ” he said. Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Safety Marcus Maye and cornerbacks Quincy Wilson (6) and Jalen T abor were not named Jim Thorpe Award semifinalists.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2016
his passes, a steep drop from his 
season average of 57.6 percent.
“I think the biggest thing there 
was simply his footwork,” UF coach Jim McElwain said. 
“He created some of that. It 
wasn’t really pressure ... but he actually drifted into some trouble, 
which didn’t allow him to be as 
accurate as he normally is with the ball.”
Before he injured his MCL dur-
ing Week 4, Del Rio led an offense 
that averaged nearly 34 points in its first three games. 
He threw just two intercep-
tions, had an average quarterback 
rating of 139.6 and completed at least 56 percent of his passes in 
each of those games.
So after his out-of-charac-
ter three-turnover performance 
against Missouri, Del Rio immedi-ately reviewed film to dissect his 
play.
“I talked to him that Sunday af-
ter the game. He wasn’t down or 
anything like that. He was still ex-
cited about the win,” senior safety 
Marcus Maye said. “He knows he has to make a few adjustments, but Luke’s doing a great job.
"I’m sure he’ll go through his 
week and prepare and practice just like he always does.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 13Del Rio has thrown five picks
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio drops back to pass during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Sept. 17. 
On a fast break during the 
scrimmage, the lanky, athletic forward rocketed into the air and 
slammed home an alley-oop dunk.
“He’s as strong as he’s ever 
been,” White said.
Kevarrius Hayes has silently 
improved his offense: Kevarrius 
Hayes was a non-factor on the of-fensive end of the court last sea-son. In his freshman campaign, the 6-foot-9 forward averaged 2.8 
points per game. And although he likely won’t be a huge contribu-
tor on offense this season, Hayes demonstrated at Friday’s scrim-mage that he has made strides in his scoring abilities. The sopho-
more scored 11 points on 5-of-6 
shooting, including an alley-oop dunk from guard KeVaughn Al-len during the third quarter of the scrimmage. 
Earlier in the game, Hayes con-
nected on two left-handed hook shots where he was fouled by his defender — he converted on the first of the two and-one opportu-nities. 
Keith Stone looks ready to 
play: He wasn’t ready last year. Due to a crowded frontcourt, the coaching staff encouraged Keith 
Stone to take a redshirt season in 
order to refine his game and body. 
It seemed to have worked.Now a chiseled 240 pounds, 
Stone proved at Friday’s scrim-
mage that he is ready to challenge 
for significant playing time in his redshirt freshman season.
From the first quarter, Stone 
was the most active player on the floor. He effectively used his 6-foot-8 frame to snag rebounds and score in the paint. Stone tal-lied 11 points on 5-of-9 shooting and grabbed a team-high 12 re-
bounds, including five offensive 
boards. 
He also showed the ability to 
hit from long range. During the second quarter of the scrimmage, 
Stone had the ball near the top of 
the key beyond the three-point line. He calmly faced his defender and drilled a three over the de-fender’s outstretched arms.Up Next: The Gators will soon 
get their first chance to apply what they’ve learned in practice. Flori-da takes on Eckerd College in an exhibition game on Wednesday 
night in Jacksonville.
“The challenge is to just do 
your job,” White said. “Potentially 
we could have a different guy, on most nights, that steps up for us 
offensively.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
HOOPS,  from pg. 13Stone went 5-for-9 shooting, including one three-pointerJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kevarrius Hayes, left, was a non-factor on offense a season ago. But entering the new 
year, he's looking to improve.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Florida forward Devin Robinson answers questions at the Florida basketball team's Media Day on Oct. 6. 
“He knows he has to make a 
few adjustments, but Luke's 
doing a great job.”
Marcus Maye
UF safety