We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 138 TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
Loss to Mississippi 
State fueling Florida
UF faces FSU tonight at 6, pg. 13
UF brings horses, dogs for semesterly ﬁ  nals relaxation week
The miniature horses will be here Thursday, pg. 4
UF student to perform at music festival
He will play the French horn in Greensboro, North Carolina, pg. 5‘Ashley’s Consent’: Play brings attention to sexual assault
It continues through Thursday, pg. 3
THROUGH THEIR EYES: PART TWO
SHE’S BEING PAID $63,000.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students can hear from a leading ani-
mal and environmental researcher April 20.
Jane Goodall, a primatologist known for 
her research with chimpanzees, will speak 
at UF’s Phillips Center for the Performing Arts at 8 p.m. Doors open at 7 p.m. Goodall is being paid $63,000, said Kevin Gerson, the chairman of Accent Speakers Bureau.
Accent will have a link on its Facebook 
page to live stream the event, he said.
He said Goodall will speak about her re-
search with chimpanzees in Gombe, Tanza-nia, and about the Jane Goodall Institute, her nonproﬁ  t conservation organization.
“She doesn’t do a whole lot of events 
that are open to the public,” Gerson said. “She is a true pioneer who opened the doors for many women to follow in her footsteps.”
Natalia Cuervo, a UF nursing sopho-
more, said she’s excited to see the legend-ary scientist.
“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime kind of deal,” 
the 20-year-old said.
She said it’s important to hear from fe-
male scientists like Goodall.
“I feel like representation is important 
in the community,” she said. “If we don’t 
see (women) in textbooks and in the media, 
then we feel like we’re not supposed to be there.”
Tickets are free for the event. Students 
with their Gator 1 Cards can get two tickets at the Phillips Center box ofﬁ  ce April 19 at noon. The general public can get remaining tickets April 20 at noon.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgJane Goodall 
to speak at UF
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF professor accused of spying on his 
underage adopted daughter was sentenced 
to ﬁ  ve years of probation and at least 30 months of counseling.
Manuel Arturo Vasquez, 54, the chair of 
the university’s department of religion, was arrested last October after deputies with the Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce said he placed a video camera inside his daughter’s closet, according to Alligator archives.
In October 2014, Vasquez captured a 
video of his topless daughter, then 14. Her underage friend later found the collection of 
seven videos, according to a police report.
On April 4, Vasquez pleaded nolo con-tendere, or no contest, to a charge of video 
voyeurism by someone 19 years or older.
With the plea, Vasquez is waving his 
right to a trial by jury rather than admit-
ting or denying guilt. The judge declared a 
withheld adjudication, meaning he ordered sanctions but did not formally convict Vasquez of a criminal offense.
Circuit Judge Mark Moseley ordered 
Vasquez to undergo ﬁ  ve years of probation and continue psychosexual treatment for at least 30 more months.
Vasquez is not to have unsupervised contact with children under the age of 18 except for students, if he retains his posi-tion at UF, according to the court docu-ments.
He is currently on paid administrative 
leave and is banned from UF’s campus, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
Sikes said UF will soon conclude its in-
vestigation into the matter. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org UF Department of Religion chair sentenced to probation, counselingBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: The stories below contain ex-
plicit and graphic details about sexual assault.
Each day lived is a victory.
For survivors of sexual assault, they have 
suffered intimate attacks that left them emo-
tionally, physically and mentally scarred.
Their backgrounds are different. Their sto-
ries aren’t the same. But they are united.
Bruises have faded and bones have mend-
ed, but the mental and emotional scars still 
remain.
Some days are harder than others. But each 
time they share their stories, there is hope that the culture of sexual assault ceases to exist.
In their own ways, they have found the 
light in the darkness.  
These are their stories.
Hiram Martinez-Cabrera
Hiram Martinez-Cabrera’s innocence was 
stolen.  
He was 6 years old when his father left and 
a new man entered his life.
A man who alleviated his mother’s ﬁ  nancial 
burden. A man who promised protection for his new family. A man who sexually abused Martinez-Cabrera for eight years.
“You lose your sense of worth,” the 22-year-
old UF public relations senior said. “Who was I during those eight years? I was a body. I was a piece of meat. That’s all.”
      
It began with a kiss.He was 6 years old.His stepfather told him it would be their 
little secret. He didn’t understand why his step-father kissed him on the lips.
“In the beginning, I felt very trapped, up-Into the light and out of the dark
He was arrested in OctoberSEE THROUGH THEIR EYES,  PAGES 8-9Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
A Hispanic queer male survivor, Hiram Martinez-Cabrera, a 22-year-old UF public rela-
tions senior, tells his story to break the stereotype of a typical sexual assault survivor.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
ACSE elections and Cuban food
ACSE will hold elections at its last 
general body meeting today at 6:15 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 0002. Our elections provide a 
leadership opportunity to address 
infrastructure and humanitarian needs in Cuban society through our organization. This year, UF ACSE members were the win-ners of the Cuba Infrastructure Challenge, hosted in Miami, re-ceiving a $6,000 grand prize and earning multiple scholarships. 
Like us on Facebook at facebook.
com/ufacse. Email questions to ufacse@gmail.com. Become an official member at ufl.col-legiatelink.net/organization/CubanEngineers.
Toastmasters meet Tuesdays
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club 
meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in 
the Entomology Building, lo-cated at 970 Natural Area Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is wel-come to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, go to talkingga-tors.toastmastersclubs.org or the 
Talking Gators Facebook page. 
The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and posi-tive learning experience through which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and per-sonal growth.
‘Ashley’s Consent'
Brought to you by the UF Center for Arts in Medicine and spon-sored by the Dean of Students Office, the Office of Victim Services, Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell and the Student 
Health Care Center, “Ashley’s 
Consent” presents a story of sex-ual assault and all that follows in an innovative multimedia format. After each performance, attendees can participate in a discussion and debriefing with the cast, victim advocates and peer counselors to explore the question, “What con-
stitutes sexual assault, and when 
should I intervene?” The play will run today through Thursday at the Newins-Ziegler Hall breeze-way, and seating is limited to 75 people for each performance. Read more about the play and register for tickets online at shcc.ufl.edu/ashleys-consent.
Be The Match to save lives
The Athletic Training Program in the UF College of Health and Human Performance is calling on every member of The Gator Nation to get in the game to save a life! Help UF beat other compet-ing universities with most people registered as potential marrow do-nors on the national Be The Match Registry. Register on campus 
Thursday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
at the Harrell Medical Education Building (located at 1104 Newell Drive), or register and take part in the competition online at join.bethematch.org/UF. If you are between ages 18 and 44, patients need you! Learn more at  shcc.ufl.edu/be-the-match-uf.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 138
HIGH  84° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
 By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new UF play is showing how 
sexual assault impacts survivors 
and their loved ones.
UF’s Center for Arts in Medi-
cine opened “Ashley’s Consent,” a free play about a girl who has been sexually assaulted, at the 
Newins-Ziegler Hall breezeway 
Monday night. Michael Martinez-Hamilton, a UF adjunct lecturer, wrote the play.
He got the idea to write about 
sexual assault in the middle of the night in August 2015, he said. He wanted to educate the community about it.
“I stayed up until the sun came 
out, and I just wrote a rough, rough draft,” he said.
Martinez-Hamilton said ﬁ  nd-
ing the time to write the play was difﬁ  cult.
“It’s deﬁ  nitely been a labor of 
love,” he said.
Six UF students will perform 
the play this week, Martinez-Hamilton said. He hand-picked 
the cast because of how impor-
tant the message was to him.
Marissa Secades, a UF theatre 
and English sophomore, plays the 
lead role of Ashley.
The 19-year-old said her favor-
ite part of theater is it doesn’t an-
swer questions, but it poses ques-tions. It’s up to the audience to 
ﬁ  gure out the answers. She hopes 
the audience will do this during “Ashley’s Consent.”
“I just really hope that while 
watching, the audience can put 
themselves in the place of the 
characters,” she said.
The play is designed to be 
interactive, Martinez-Hamilton said. Throughout the play, char-acters move location and the au-
dience moves with them. After 
the play ends, actors will lead a discussion with the audience about sexual assault on college campuses, bystander intervention 
and victim shaming.
“Hopefully they leave with 
the realization that you have the 
power to change the world in 
which you live,” he said. Play brings attention to sexual assault
It continues through Thursday
“ASHLEY’S CONSENT” 
AT A GLANCE
 7:30 p.m., today 
through Thursday night
 Newins-Ziegler Hall breezeway on McCarty 
Drive
 Free and open to the 
public
LEFT:
Aleksandr Kalishman reacts to 
another character in the “multi-media theatrical experience” about sexual assault, “Ashley’s Consent, ” in the Newins-Ziegler Hall breezeway on Monday.  The 26-year-old Santa Fe Col-lege theatre sophomore played faculty advisor Ben Hart during the play’s opening night.
BELOW:
Trip, played by Ryan Golden, 19, hits on his ex-girlfriend Ash-ley, played by Marissa Secades, 19, at a party. The characters moved the audience to other spots in the Newins-Ziegler Hall breezeway throughout the night as they followed the story of Ashley’s sexual assault and the reactions from her friends and family.
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator Staff
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
By Amanda DioGuardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF and UF Health employees will have the opportunity to relax and 
de-stress through a new wellness classes.
Through June, UF employees will be able to participate in new 
events for UF’s monthly Wellness Wednesdays. Employees can try 
meditating, learn how to track their sleep schedules and participate in 
National Bike to Work Day.
The events are part of the UF-UF Health Shands Wellness Commit-
tee’s Quarterly Spotlight, said Angie Brown, the assistant director for 
communications and wellness.
The topic for the next three months is “Thrive,” she said.  It will 
focus on emotional wellness, including stress, depression, sleep, hy-giene, positive psychology and happiness.  
“The program supports the health and well-being of UF and UF Health employees in an effort to build a strong academic community for all,” said Kim Holton, the wellness coordinator at UF.
To make sure employees had as many resources as students, UF 
formed a joint employee wellness committee in Fall 2013, Brown said.
“Since that time, it has developed programming both indepen-
dently as well as in conjunction with UF Health, GatorCare and other campus organizations,” Brown said.
Holton said in addition to Wellness Wednesday, the program offers 
free weekly classes including Pilates, yoga and Zumba.
There are also Fall and Spring walking challenges, health screen-
ings and an annual Windows to Wellness, in which employees learn healthy cooking, receive health checks and learn how to deskercise.
Dorota Haman, UF’s agricultural and biological engineering chair, 
said she has participated in the committee’s yoga classes and body scan meditation, which reduces stress.
“I really like this program, and I wish I would have more time to 
participate,” Haman said. “This is a great way to deal with stress.”UF employees offered wellness classesBy Madeleine Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can pet miniature 
horses outside of Library West on Thursday.
The event, Miniature Therapy 
Horse Magic, will be part of UF’s 
semesterly finals relaxation week. 
The week started Monday with two therapy dogs outside the library.
From 1 p.m. to 2 p.m., dozens 
of UF students stopped by to pet Riley, a 7-year-old black Labrador 
retriever, and Fara, a 7-year-old 
golden retriever.
The dogs, which are from the 
organization Love on a Leash, are therapy dogs that visit schools, nursing homes, hospitals and al-most any place they are invited to, said Sherrilyn Pasternak, a Love on a Leash volunteer.
Riley, who visited UF for the 
first time, laid down on the walk-way in front of the library as stu-dents pet and took photos of him.
“He’s not going anywhere as 
long as people are petting him,” Pasternak said.
Sarah Hock, a UF history and 
political science junior, helped or-
ganize the events for finals relax-
ation week. She said they wanted to bring horses this semester be-cause she saw them at an event held by UF’s Counseling and Well-ness Center.
She said she liked the idea of 
bringing them before finals, the 20-year-old said. There will be two miniature horses on Thursday. One is a baby, and the other is an adult.
“They will both be outside for 
a little bit and then the adult-size one will go up in the library, but the baby gets tired so he’ll be out here for a while,” Hock said.
UF brings horses, dogs for semesterly finals relaxation week
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
About 100 people buzzed over a bee 
speaker Monday night.
Jamie Ellis, an endowed associate 
professor at UF and a honey bee expert, spoke to a crowd as they dined family-
style at Blue Gill Quality Foods.
He worked through a presentation 
titled “Plight of the Honey Bee” and an-
swered audience questions about every-thing honey-bee related.
At the age of 12, Ellis started keeping 
bees as a hobby.
“It’s not because my family did it,” he 
said. “It’s because I was a weird kid.”
The speaker joked and interacted with his audience, asking questions and break-ing the science down to relatable meta-phors.
He discussed the importance of honey 
bees and what is causing them to die, such as pesticides and parasites.
“About 20 percent of the world’s food 
production is dependent on honey bees,” he said.
Ellis also touched on the lifespan and 
sex life of honey bees.
“Queen honey bees are egg-laying ma-
chine guns,” he said.
Monday evening’s talk was the last of 
the Florida Museum of Natural History’s Spring 2016 Science Cafes, said Betty 
Dunckel, the program director at the mu-
seum’s Center for Science Learning.She said the events are meant to bring 
science to the community and business to locally owned Gainesville restaurants.
Dunckel said she stands by the door 
at every event and thanks guests as they leave.
“We have a lot of regulars who come 
every time and only miss if they are out of town,” she said. “Each program also draws new people in.”
Kathleen Hayman, a retired health care 
communicator, said she has attended the event for years and has not missed a ses-sion this Spring.
“It’s great fun,” she said.Hayman said her interest in science 
grows with each dinner, where she al-ways learns something new.
Ellis, she said, was the best speaker 
she’s heard yet.
“I’m inspired to put honey in my tea 
now,” she said.UF professor talks ‘Plight of the Honey Bee’HOW YOU CAN RELAX
BEFORE FINALS
• T oday: Coffee and 
Donuts 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on the second floor of Library West
• Wednesday: Free Pizza
 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on the 
 second floor of  Library  West
• Thursday: Miniature Therapy Horse Magic
 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in front 
of Library West
By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
Curiosity might have killed the cat, but the 
Million Cat Challenge is on a mission to save 
one million felines from all threats, curiosity and otherwise.
On Monday, the project announced a mile-
stone of 500,000 cats saved.
Julie Levy, a professor of shelter medicine 
at UF, co-founded the effort, which she said began on Jan. 1, 2014.
“The shelters are knocking it out of the 
park,” she said. “We expect to blow away that goal of one million cats saved in five years.”
For some shelters, saving a cat means 
avoiding euthanasia, Levy said. For others, es-
pecially no-kill shelters, the goal is to find more 
forever homes and help current cat owners keep their pets when money becomes an issue.
Though the program does not provide mon-
ey to shelters, it does offer several initiatives to help shelters of all sizes, Levy said.
The initiatives are meant to educate shel-
ters, she said, helping them better manage re-sources and decrease operational costs.
The Alachua County Humane Society will 
host a special adoption event from Thursday to Sunday in honor of the celebration, said direc-tor of development Margot Wilder.
The adoption fee for cats that are at least 
one year old will have a 50-percent discount, making it less than $40 to take home a cat.
As of press time, the shelter houses 84 cats, 
Wilder said.
“We’re so happy to be a part of this,” she 
said. “We’re looking forward to the next half-a-million cats saved.”Cat-saving 
project ahead of scheduleChuck Peebles / Alligator
Fara, a 7-year-old golden retriever from Love on a Leash, was one of two dogs who visited students 
outside Library West during finals relaxation week.
CAMPUS
He has kept bees since he was 12TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
ZEN ON THE PLAZA
Chris DeVilbiss, a UF environmental engineering sciences 
doctoral student, practices yoga on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday evening.
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Library District will commem-
orate mobile libraries as part of a larger celebration 
throughout the week.
During National Library Week, which started Sunday 
and ends Saturday, the district will promote about 100 
services available at branches throughout the county, 
said Chris Culp, the public services division director.
“We’re not doing more,” she said. “But we are telling 
people more about what we are doing.”
Wednesday is National Bookmobile Day. The coun-ty’s ﬁ  rst bookmobile began its route in 1959, said David Fuller, the outreach services manager. He said each mo-bile library contains about 2,000 items, including print 
books, audiobooks, CDs and DVDs.
“The people who come on the bookmobile are very 
supportive, wonderful people,” Fuller said, “and we en-
joy having them.” 
Culp said two bookmobiles now make scheduled 
stops ﬁ  ve days a week in Gainesville and other cities in the county. They make a difference, she said, by provid-ing on-site resources to “serve the underserved.”
“We really do want to connect with as many people 
from Alachua County as we can,” she said.National Library Week, bookmobiles
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF alumnus will study Chinese history in 
London next Fall.
Yevgen Sautin, 25, was awarded the 2016 
Gates Cambridge Scholarship. More than 800 scholars from the all over the world applied 
for the scholarship which allows recipients to 
study for free. 
Only 35 received it.He will begin studying at the University of 
Cambridge in October, he said. 
He’ll spend three years studying for a doc-
toral degree in Chinese history. 
After being named a ﬁ  nalist for the scholar-
ship in February, he ﬂ  ew to Seattle to interview with the committee for the scholarship, which was established by a donation from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000. 
During his interview, Sautin said he told 
panelists about the role China plays in countries around the world. For his research proposal, he discussed how the Chinese government’s deci-sions in the 1950s affect the country’s current 
political identity. Sautin said he became inter-
ested in Chinese history after living in Japan for a year at 8 years old.
“I was exposed to the food and culture and 
became interested in that region,” he said.
Sautin spent a lot of time at UF with pro-
fessors who helped him ﬁ  gure out where he wanted to go and how to get there, said Regan Garner, the associate director of the UF Honors Program. During Sautin’s time at UF, he also studied abroad in China, Taiwan and Russia.
“Something he did that was very effective 
and most students won’t do was he built rela-tionships with faculty members,” Garner said. After graduating from UF, Sautin earned his master’s degree at the University of Chicago.
“I am really thrilled and excited about this 
tremendous opportunity,” Sautin said. “It’s a great honor.” UF alumnus gets full ride to Cambridge for Chinese historyBy Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF music student will play 
classical music such as Prokoﬁ  ev’s “Romeo and Juliet” at a national fes-tival this June.
Kadin De La Barrera, a UF music 
performance sophomore, will repre-sent UF when he plays the French horn at the Eastern Music Festival in Greensboro, North Carolina. The 19-year-old was the only UF student accepted to perform at the festival.
De La Barrera submitted a video playing three classical orchestral excerpts and a solo in October, he said. When he found out he was ac-
cepted, he was with his friends at 
UF’s men’s music fraternity.
De La Barrera said he then called 
Paul Basler, a UF music professor with whom he has been working since his senior year at Seminole High School in Seminole, Florida.
“Kadin has worked extremely 
hard on achieving this goal,” Basler 
said. “We are all very proud of him.”  
Three other UF horn students 
have attended, and Basler said he’s glad De La Barrera is the fourth. De 
La Barrera said he’s excited to play with musicians across the country 
until the program ends in July.
“I’m looking forward to being 
able to play great orchestral reper-
toire with hard-working, talented musicians,” De La Barrera said.
Barrera started playing the 
French horn when he was about 10 years old, because he liked its sound more than that of the other instru-
ments, he said.
“I had no idea it would lead me 
to this,” De La Barrera said.UF student to perform at festivalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
American foreign policy begets further terrorism
The young couple from Mississippi de-
tained by federal authorities in August has, among other charges, pleaded guilty to conspiring to provide material support for the Kim Kardashian of radical Islamic 
militancy: the Islamic State. The aspiring Ameri-can jihadists shocked and captured the attention of Americans throughout the country.
Though the number of people in the U.S. 
who have pledged allegiance to the Islamic State is insigniﬁ  cant, sensationalist media continues to write the narrative that an incredibly sophisticated so-cial networking-based recruitment system has had great success in turning ordinary Americans into unwavering 
jihadists. The same narrative can be heard overseas, with 
a lot more truth behind its proliferation, yet still not in recognition of the big picture.
The more clandestine truth, however, is that the Is-
lamic State’s propaganda pales in comparison to the most bountiful and reliable recruitment method for radical Is-lamic militant groups in the Middle East: drones and air-strikes.
As America fumbles with the answer for how to suc-
cessfully combat Islamic extremism, unsuccessfully fore-going the support of moderate Kurds, its policy of unfet-tered drone warfare has only increased since its inception. Because of this, many civilians, both Muslim and Chris-tian, have suffered greatly.
In war-torn Afghanistan where the digestion of the 
democratic apple pie was once slow-going, the resurgence of a long-presumed weakened al-Qaida has provided cause for increasing U.S. drone strikes. Yet these are not done re-
sponsibly or with precision — look to the October attack 
on a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz, Afghan-istan, that killed 42 civilians and hospital workers. Such irresponsibility begets a defeated and vengeful population, whose only recourse for the indiscriminate deaths of their families is to join with those ﬁ  ghting Western powers, on the front and abroad.
The ongoing power struggle for inﬂ  uence and control between our ally, Saudi Arabia, and our not-so-ally, Iran, has turned the country of Yemen into yet another part of the Middle East. Efforts by the Saudi Riyadh government to quell the strength of the Yemeni Houthi rebellion have 
lead to widespread attacks on civilians. What’s 
more is that most of the bombs used indiscrimi-nately by Saudi jets have been sold to Saudi mil-itary by the U.S.: bombs that have been deemed illegal by the international community due to their disregard of human rights and precision 
targeting. The civilian death toll in Yemen continues to climb as children and adults who remain in the cities and towns experiencing these strikes no longer have jobs or 
places for education. Those who are lucky enough to have 
their lives are incredibly disenfranchised with not much else to do but survive. It is no wonder that many who have lost large amounts of their family members turn to extrem-ism against the Saudi regime and its allies.
Under the Obama administration, the use of drone 
strikes has ballooned, and the Pentagon has plans to fur-ther expand the program by 50 percent by 2019. Taking into account the administration’s unwavering stance on 
putting boots on the ground and advances in the technol-
ogy of warfare, this is not surprising. What is surprising is the nature of a country that espouses the importance of quashing terrorism at home and abroad carrying out sta-tus quo policies that only increase the prospect of terror-ism. It is duplicitous that we as a nation should hold high the values of freedom and human rights but stand shame-lessly allied to a Saudi government that has no regard for human rights or lives.
While there are other players to criticize, the U.S. needs 
to be held accountable for the dangerous anti-U.S. senti-ment it creates. There are answers to the quagmires of the Middle East — providing backing to the Kurds beyond air support, for instance. Callous, indiscriminate drone and airstrikes are to the contrary.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays.Myths Un-Mythed: 
‘Sandy Hook shame’
We live in a world full of myths. Never mind the tales 
of an undercover spy, or so-called “fairy” (likely Soviet-trained) sneaking into our children’s bed-
rooms to do Lord knows what with their precious 
teeth or the tales of a puppet hiding behind his na-
sal mutation to cover up his habitual dishonesty. No, we want to highlight supposedly truthful claims and offer a reminder of 
their unfounded foundations.
Unfortunately, this week’s topic concerns the 2016 elec-
tion’s reference to a recent tragedy. “Bernie’s Sandy Hook 
shame,” read The New York Daily News’ headline last Wednesday, reporting on Sanders’ position that victims of gun 
crimes should not be able to sue gun manufacturers. Current-
ly, family members of the Sandy Hook victims are in the pro-cess of a lawsuit against Remington Arms, the manufacturer of the assault weapon used to kill 20 school children and six 
adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Con-
necticut, on Dec. 14, 2012.
As Hillary Clinton told MSNBC on April 6, “That he would 
place gun manufacturers’ rights and immunity from liability against the parents of the children killed at Sandy Hook is just 
unimaginable to me.” No one is disputing the unfathomable 
horror and tragedy of Sandy Hook. But for the moment we need to separate the tragedy from current rhetoric. Think to yourself: Does Sanders really dismiss the families of Sandy 
Hook victims?
First of all, Sanders’ position on gun manufacturers has nu-
ance. He believes manufacturers should, in fact, face liability 
“when they should know that guns are going into the hands of the wrong people.” So he’s not for complete immunity in all 
cases. Furthermore, Sanders strongly advocates for a national 
ban on assault riﬂ  es across the board — the type of weapon used in the Sandy Hook shooting.
Looking to the other side of the argument, to what extent 
does Clinton necessarily assume a moral high ground on guns compared to Sanders? She seems to have no problem making these accusations against him. Meanwhile, her campaign al-lowed for a mid-March Clinton fundraiser to be co-hosted by Jeff Forbes, a former lobbyist for the National Riﬂ  e Associa-
tion. And just eight short years ago, when Clinton ran against 
Barack Obama, she proclaimed herself a “pro-gun churchgo-er,” according to The New York Times.
Any human being with a moral compass sympathizes with 
the Sandy Hook victims, so in no way are we attacking Clin-ton’s character. But on a political level, she clearly has a re-cord of ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  opping on gun issues that she consistently fails to disclose. So to vilify Sanders for his gun position and further suggest his disregard for Sandy Hook victims now is disin-
genuous at best and, at worst, playing dirty politics with the 
Sandy Hook shooting.
This isn’t a debate on Sanders’ and Clinton’s gun policies, 
but rather a closer look at the myth, the hypocrisy of these 
Sandy Hook accusations. And this isn’t to say that Clinton is 
unique in politically motivated hypocrisy — such is the politi-cal game. But if Clinton’s going to profess she has tried and will always try “to level with the American people,” she needs to come clean about her own record before lashing out, espe-
cially when the families of Sandy Hook victims are catching 
the political crossﬁ  re.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“Everything that is good is light, 
what is divine runs on delicate feet: ﬁ  rst principle of my aes-thetic,” declares Nietzsche in “The Case of Wagner.” Paul 
Valery claims in his notebooks that “(t)he preparation of a work consists of laboriously granting oneself the liberty of executing it lightly.” In his “Six Memos for the New Mil-lennium,” Italo Calvino calls for lightness to combat “the slow petriﬁ  cation” of the world caused by “the inexorable stare of Medusa.” 
“Whenever humanity seems condemned 
to heaviness,” he thinks he “should ﬂ  y like Perseus into a different space.”
Writing in 1988, Calvino saw technol-
ogy as the cure for heaviness: The ethereal daintiness of computer chips could counter-act the sober suffering of the Eastern Bloc. How prescient he was. Flip through any middle-class posing as upper-class magazine — try the Sunday supplements of The New York Times or the Wall Street Journal. Try “Wired.” Everywhere, the cloud ﬂ  oats up: We can work from our laptops, tablets or phones. Dynamism, communication — be-ing connected; that’s what busi-ness is about. “Flexible” is code for “precarious,” “anywhere” is code for “everywhere” and “any-time” for “all the time,” as our pri-vate lives consummately crumble in late capitalism. Doesn’t the hell of 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. seem like a dream now?
The hell of bourgeois hetero-
sexuality, too, seems like a three-martini-lunch next to sex today. “Hook-up culture” — even the term seems passe. We take sex lightly. The game is to not get involved, not get tied down, nothing serious — nothing heavy. I don’t know what face to make when the “you-know-this-isn’t-anything-serious” conversation starts. In French, they don’t say “loose girl” — they say “light girl.”
Tinder, especially, turned potential part-
ners into ephemeral actors, promptly ﬂ  oating into screen-left and screen-right. Our Inter-net feminist culture — within the conﬁ  nes and model of patriarchy — has made a joke of sex. Trying to make the most of a bad situ-ation, it embraces objectiﬁ  cation in the op-posite direction; girl power too of-ten means talking about men like they talk about us: as disposable. Rather than a positive liberation, we’ve embraced a negative one.
We’ve atomized sex: We are 
simply particles colliding and sep-arating. Same goes for the family, same goes for the hometown: It’s all about freedom, which means 
movement, which means separation. We gather experiences, but they don’t tie us down: We accumulate partners and travel destinations and skills, but these don’t lead to any solid morality, any center. Like ﬂ  ies, we cannot see except in motion.
On both sides of the pond, populists are 
casting anchors. In France, the National Front’s collective of “patriotic teachers” is called “root.” In America, a pumpkin-faced Trump screams for a return to the real Amer-ica. They live in a mythology of the past; we live in a mythology of the present. Lightness, mobility, choice: These have, presumably, made us free — supremely, triumphantly free.What is left, then? After the ofﬁ  ce, after 
the home, after love, what is our reward? Exchange of information, I suppose: comput-ers and tablets and phones to talk to what, today, are called friends. Tweets and texts and memes need to pack a punch: They re-sort to irony, a constant distance, a constant lightness.
I will end, like Calvino, with Kafka’s 1917 
story, “The Bucket Rider.” Take it as you will: 
A suffering, shivering man begs the coal 
dealer to lend him some coal: His bucket is so light that he ﬂ  oats higher and higher, “superbly, superbly,” and he cries through hoarse and frost. But the coal dealer refus-es, and his wife waves him away with her apron.
Obedient but too light, his bucket begins 
to ﬂ  oat away and he with it, and amidst his last desperate cries, he says: “I ascend into the regions of the ice mountains and am lost forever.”    
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and 
Spanish senior. Her column usually appears on Mondays.
Technology, sex and communication: the modern burden of lightnessColumn
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
set and worn-out,” Martinez-Cabrera 
said.
The assaults escalated, becoming 
an unwanted routine.
A kiss became oral sex, which 
became intercourse. None of it was consensual.
He was 12.
“Whatever the chance was, wher-
ever he wanted, was basically when 
it happened,” Martinez-Cabrera said. 
“It became a service.”
Every time, Martinez-Cabrera 
couldn’t look at the monster in the sheets. He focused on the bookshelf 
across the room, staring into a re-
cording camera.
That camera later proved the 
horrific acts of sexual violence com-
mitted by his stepfather, videos his 
mother watched in court after a con-cerned friend went to the police.
The judges, lawyers and thera-
pists would later ask him why he 
didn’t tell anybody.
The answer was simple: money.
Without his stepfather’s income, 
Martinez-Cabrera said he feared his 
mother and sister would struggle 
to make ends meet. They would be back on food stamps, and his mother would work two jobs.
“I knew how bad it was before, 
and I didn’t want to go back to it,” he said.
His stepfather is serving 25 years 
behind bars, but Martinez-Cabrera would still struggle for years to come.
Family members told him “men 
can’t be raped.” He was told sexu-
al abuse doesn’t happen in Latino 
households. And his mother forced him into conversion therapy, where his queer identity was questioned 
and scorned.
“I just needed a moment to step 
away and find myself,” Martinez-
Cabrera said. “‘Cause I didn’t know myself for 8 years.”
•   •   •
Martinez-Cabrera refuses to let 
his past define him.
After eight years of surviving, he 
began living.
As a UF freshman, he worked at 
the Coach store at the Oaks Mall and the graveyard shift at the P.O.D. Mar-
ket at Beaty Towers, later working at 
the Graham Oasis. He sent money to his family while he took classes dur-ing the day. He became an advocate for the LGBTQ+ community his first 
day on campus.
Being a Hispanic queer male sur-
vivor, he tells his story to break the 
stereotype of a typical survivor of 
sexual assault.
“It’s a responsibility that I have to 
fulfill to make sure that people who 
look like me, people with the same story as me, can feel comfortable 
enough to share that, ‘cause people 
don’t,” he said.
On Monday, he was inducted 
in the UF Hall of Fame, which is the highest recognition given to UF student leaders. Instead of speaking 
about his success at the university, he said he spoke about how UF can 
work to create an inclusive environ-ment for sexual assault survivors.
To his friends, it was hard to 
guess that Martinez-Cabrera is a sur-vivor of sexual assault, said Luis Su-arez, a former roommate.
Suarez said he was shocked when 
Martinez-Cabrera shared his story.
“If you were to see the script of 
his early life, you would guess that his life was a tragedy,” the 23-year-
old said. “But he’s gone on to do big 
things.”
Suarez, who’s known Martinez-
Cabrera for six years, said they be-came friends through Pride Student 
Union. They were roommates for 
two years before Suarez graduated.
“Having him in my life has been 
anything but negative,” Suarez said. 
“He’s helped me love myself a lot 
more and love others just the same.”
Carly Barnes
Carly Barnes had one drink to cel-
ebrate her future.
She had just graduated from UF 
in 2011. She had a job, and she was catching up with some old friends.
She rarely went out, but tonight 
she wanted to treat herself.
It was one drink.But someone drugged it.
•   •   •
Barnes lost control of her body as 
the drug took over.
Her legs gave out, her vision left 
her and tears streamed down her 
face.
She was powerless, trapped.Her friends didn’t know what 
was wrong with her, so they took 
her home. But it wasn’t her home.
With the drug running through 
her body, she couldn’t tell her friends that she moved as they dropped her off and left.
“These people left me alone on 
the streets of Gainesville,” Barnes said.  
She blacked out.She wouldn’t remember the 
strange man who followed her, the beating her body took or the at-tempted sexual assault.
“I wonder how many people 
walked by me that night, or how many people saw me by myself, not knowing where I was,” she said.
She woke up in her pink dress, 
her arms and legs riddled with bruis-
es. She was propped on a porch of 
an abandoned purple house behind Target Copy.  
The pink dress caught the eye of 
a pedestrian, who called an ambu-lance after finding her battered body.
When Barnes woke up, she was 
surprised to be alive.
“I was really lucky,” she said. “I 
could have been killed or raped.”
The next day, she called her 
friend Adrienne Boyette from the emergency room.
As her friend told her as much as 
she could remember from the pre-vious night, Boyette said her heart broke.
“Sometimes when those things 
happen, you don’t know the right thing to say or the right thing to do,” Boyette said. “Nothing fixes it.”
Barnes used to wonder if it was 
her fault the night she was attacked.
Should she have stayed home? 
Should she not have had alcohol? Should she not have worn a pink dress?
Barnes tried to find reason behind 
her assault. But she couldn’t.
“No matter what you do, you 
can’t change other people’s behav-iors,” she said.
She understands that it’s not her 
fault, but the self-blame still lingers.
“A lot of people struggle with it, 
but you keep dealing as best you 
can,” she said.
•   •   •
Five years later, Barnes would 
end up in the Shands ER again.
It was a friend’s engagement 
party.  
She was happy, and she was cel-
ebrating her friend’s upcoming mar-
riage.
Barnes was dropped off at her 
Gainesville apartment, but the driver didn’t wait for her to get inside.
She never made it. She blacked 
out instead and woke up sitting in a 
chair near Gator Corner Dining.
Her wallet, shoes and necklace 
were gone. Her shirt was ripped, and 
her body ached.
Barnes couldn’t believe it hap-
pened again.
When she saw the bruises on her 
pelvis, she knew it was sexual as-sault.
“I was just numb,” she said.
Her friend, Boyette, was by her THROUGH 
THEIR EYES,  from pg 1A Survivors of Violence exhibit is on display at the Harn
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff“There are some things you can’t control. But I can control my attitude, and I can control how I choose to live out my life. ”CARLY BARNES
2011 UF alumnaTUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
WHO TO CONTACT
Victims Advocate
A Victims Advocate is available 
24 hours a day by calling UPD’s 
Dispatch Center at 352-392-1111. During business hours, Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Ad-vocates can be contacted directly at 352-392-5648. You can email Vic-tim Advocates at annekcarper@uﬂ  .edu and nphineas@uﬂ  .edu 
U Matter We Care 
You can conﬁ  dentially and 
anonymously reach out to the Dean of Student’s Ofﬁ  ce U Matter We Care team about students who may need help at umatter@uﬂ  .edu
STRIVE
STRIVE peer educators are 
available to hold open nonjudg-mental forums for discussion of issues related to sexual violence.  You can contact them at 352-392-1575 or visit their website at gator-well.ufsa.uﬂ  .edu/strive.
UF LGBT Aﬀ  airs
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender (LGBT) Affairs pro-vides education, advocacy, and support for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and straight-allied students, staff, and faculty at the University of Florida. You can reach the Univer-sity of Florida LGBT Ofﬁ  ce at 352-392-1261 or email lbh@multicul-tural.uﬂ  .edu. 
Medical Care
The University of Florida Stu-
dent Health Care Center leads, col-laborates, and excels in the provi-sion of comprehensive services through wellness promotion and compassionate and accessible care. The Student Health Care Center also has a Women’s Health Care Clinic that is a nurse practitioner-run clinic with a female focus. The clinic includes but is not limited to services such as counseling on con-traceptive options, sexually trans-mitted disease/infection (STD/STI) prevention, sexuality and other women’s health, screening, diag-nosis and treatment of STDs/STIs, breast exams and instruction in self-examination, pap smears and routine pelvic exams and pregnan-cy testing.
Counseling Services
The University of Florida Coun-
seling and Wellness Center has professional counselors and thera-pists on staff and offers individual or group counseling dealing with any form of sexual exploitation or other issues related to victimiza-tion. All counseling services are free and conﬁ  dential. The center has an excellent referral system should your needs be better met by a different agency or program. You can reach the University of Florida Counseling and Wellness Center at:
3190 Radio Road(352) 392-1575www.counsel.uﬂ  .edu/cwc 
side once more.
“I couldn’t take the hurt away, 
but I knew that I could walk 
through the healing process with 
her,” Boyette said. “I knew that I wanted to be there in whatever way she needed me.”
      
Barnes refuses to live in fear.Even though she’ll never know 
who her attackers were, she doesn’t 
submit to fear.
“There are some things you 
can’t control, but I can control my 
attitude, and I can control how I 
choose to live out my life,” she said.
Although she ﬁ  nds it hard to tell 
her story, she recognizes the impor-
tance of speaking about her experi-ences.
“No matter what happens, you 
have to keep living your life,” she said. “There’s still a lot of good in the world and a lot of good things 
to live for.”
Jamie Edmondson
Jamie Edmondson sits on the 
ﬂ  oor of her apartment with a paint-
brush in her right hand.
A blank canvas stares back at 
her.
For two hours she pours the 
darkness from her soul into the can-
vas. She paints her pain, anger and 
fear in colorful strokes.
She throws dirt and sand on 
her canvas. She mixes the ﬁ  lth and color by hand. It’s rough, dirty and 
violent — the emotions Edmondson 
felt when she was raped.
“I wasn’t even realizing what 
was happening until I was done,” 
the 26-year-old UF psychology ju-nior said.
That painting, titled “Into the 
Light,” is on display at the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art, as part of the Survivors of Violence art ex-hibit. The gritty painting symbolizes her journey to happiness and loving 
herself.
“It completely destroyed my self-
esteem,” she said. “It destroyed my 
self-worth.”
      
Edmondson knew she was queer 
since she was 13.
She was bullied at school after 
she came out.
Gum was thrown in her hair. 
Hateful words were whispered be-hind her back.
Her dad died after battling can-
cer. By the end of her freshman year in high school, Edmondson at-tempted to kill herself.
Edmondson’s family thought 
it was a phase. But her mom, still worried about her safety, helped her change schools.
She dropped out of high school 
and left her small hometown of Newberry, Florida, for downtown Gainesville before she turned 18.
She had a party with her room-
mates and their friends. After a 
night of drinking, she went to her 
bed to sleep off the alcohol.
Edmondson woke up to a 
strange man in her bed. It wasn’t 
the ﬁ  rst time she was with a man, 
but it was the ﬁ  rst time she was raped. He stayed in her bed while she stumbled out of her room.
She walked out onto the corner 
of her street in her T-shirt and un-derwear and sat down in shock. She cried by herself.  
“I don’t know why, but I felt like 
I couldn’t go back inside,” she said. “In that moment, I felt like it was my fault.”
Edmondson didn’t tell anyone 
because she was afraid of being blamed. She was ashamed.
“I couldn’t even face it if my 
mom was like, ‘Why did you get 
drunk?’” she said.
To cope with her assault, she 
drowned herself in beer, wanting to 
numb the pain. Her wounds never 
healed, even as she entered another 
relationship.
“I didn’t respect myself, and I 
wasn’t happy,” Edmondson said. “I thought that’s how life was sup-
posed to be. You just kind of go 
through life and nobody ﬁ  nds pure happiness.”
But after the relationship — 
which became abusive — ended, she was assaulted again.
She let a band that played a show 
stay at her apartment. She had been drinking, but she made the bound-
aries clear. The band would sleep 
in the living room, and she would sleep in her room with her pitbull, Penny.
She woke up and found a man in 
the room. Penny fought him off her, but the reality was hard to stomach: She had been raped again.
Edmondson had to escape. In 
2010, she packed her bags and moved to France, where she lived for three years.
It took years, Edmondson said, 
for her to recognize that it wasn’t her fault. To realize that none of it — the abusive relationship, the as-saults — were her fault.“It’s okay to be pissed, because 
it’s not fair,” she said. “It not fair at all. You have to go through those motions, because if you don’t you’re not really letting yourself heal.”
But in France, she was able to 
slowly rediscover positive sexuality.
And in 2012, Milo was born.
      
Milo, now 3, would give Ed-
mondson hope.
Her partner, Liz Ramos, would 
give her love.
“Her whole entire life has been 
about happiness,” Edmondson said. “She enjoys everything about life.”
Edmondson said she wanted to 
learn how to do the same.
After she met Ramos in 2013, 
she began attending Santa Fe Col-lege. Last Fall, she graduated with 
her associate’s degree with honors.
She aspires to become a counsel-
or — one that doesn’t just listen but 
understands survivors of domestic 
violence or assault.
But most of all, Edmondson and 
Ramos want to raise Milo to be as 
happy as can be when he grows up.
“He deserves to feel like it’s OK 
to be yourself,” she said. “I owed it to my child to be genuine in every-
thing I do.” 
 Editor’s note: This is part two of 
an ongoing series on sexual assault 
survivors. See Wednesday’s paper 
for an insight into those who work to care for survivors.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgCourtesy to the AlligatorCourtesy to the Alligator
Edmondson’s painting, titled “Into the Light, ” is on display at the Sam-
uel P . Harn Museum of Art as part of the Survivors of Violence exhibit. The painting symbolizes her journey to happiness and loving herself.
JAMIE EDMONDSON
UF psychology juniorTUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
Home for the Outdoor Enthusiast!
10 min drive from UF, 3/2, 1891 sf, $235,000, 
photos can be seen at http://9215cr2082.
canbyours.com/. Call Mike, 352,665-0073   
4-13-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
A - $1000 Daily Returning Phone Calls. No selling, no MLM, No Limits. Not a job. Brief Overview: 877.860.6161.    4-12-16-1-20Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing 
responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email 
cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-
ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-15-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Want to Earn Some Extra $$$
Kelly Services is looking for individuals to 
work a 10 day project April 19-28th as couri -
ers/messengers in a hospital setting. Day, 
Evening and Overnight shifts are available 
starting at $10/HR. Apply online at http://qrs.
ly/gt52jb2 or call 352-335-7800 TODAY!   
 4-13-7-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Camp Counselor. Looking to provide a safe, nurturing, and fun environment for girls? Ideal applicants are available M-F, have large group experience and a willingness to grow in an active environment. Visit www.girlsplace.net to apply.       4-14-16-5-14
GENERAL OFC ASSISTANT.Pleasant home office and atmosphere. 10-15 hrs/week. Schedule flexible. $15 per hour. Required: proficiency in Excel and Word. Also required: serious attitude and reliabil -
ity. Resumes to wooten.leslie@gmail.com.    4-13-16-3-14
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 14 Help WantedHeadline
Story description Pg#
Track and Field athlete Kyra 
Jefferson chose Florida over several other SEC schools, and has been making her mark ever since.Read the story on pg 14. Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF to implement new bag policy at football games
Starting with the first game of the 2016 season, fans attending Florida 
football games will be allowed to enter only with clear, see-through bags, UF announced on Monday. Items such as purses, backpacks and coolers are prohibited. By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
In the eighth inning of UF’s 
10-4 loss on Saturday, first base 
coach Lars Davis restrained an en-raged Buddy Reed while the cen-terfielder yelled at umpire Scott Cline.
With two runners on, the ju-
nior was called out on a close play at first base.
Then, on Sunday, Dalton Guth-
rie took his helmet off and squat-ted in disappointment by first base. 
The sophomore had just 
popped out with the bases loaded late in Florida’s 2-1 loss to then-No. 5 Mississippi State on Sunday.Frustration and anger filled 
McKethan Stadium this weekend. 
The emotions were natural and 
shared by everyone, as the Gators lost their first home series in near-ly a year.
"It’s extremely frustrating," UF 
first baseman Peter Alonso said.
"It doesn’t feel good at all to 
have someone come on your home field and win two out of three."
Alonso, who leads the team 
with 34 RBIs, knows Florida’s of-fense simply didn’t come through in the clutch.
In its two losses, UF left 21 run-
ners on base and scored just five 
combined runs — its lowest two-
game total all season.
"It’s baseball. It’s a close 
game," Alonso said on Sunday. 
"The ball could bounce either 
way."
Over the weekend, it bounced 
in the Bulldogs’ favor.
But now, the No. 3 Gators (29-
5) will look to rebound against in-Emotions run rampant in UF's loss to Mississippi State
THE COACH WILL REACH THE 
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS IN HER 
FIRST YEAR AT UF.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
About seven months ago, Jenny Row-
land made a call.
Introducing herself over FaceTime, 
she was faced with a group of 14 strang-
ers. 
She also faced a lofty challenge. Somehow, this rookie head coach had 
to build trust with the Florida gymnastics team.
If her ultimate goal of securing Flor-
ida’s fourth consecutive national cham-pionship was to ever be realized, she would need to find a way to get through to her inherited roster.
Months later, that journey is finally 
complete.
"This team has grown in so many dif-
ferent ways. We’ve built relationships, we’ve built trust amongst the team (and) amongst the staff," Rowland said on Monday."It’s definitely been a roller coaster 
ride… It’s been a journey, and really that’s what this year I’ve stressed to this team...This is a journey, and (you have to enjoy) each process, or each competi-tion, or each day or each moment. You’re 
never gonna get these moments back."
This day-by-day approach has come 
to characterize Rowland’s coaching style. 
Never demanding perfection, she encour-ages normalcy.
During one otherwise routine Septem-
ber practice, Rowland clicked on a video.
In it, Kansas State football player Den-
zel Goolsby discussed his life story, driv-
ing his point home with a metaphor.
"He talked about the evolution of the 
golf ball," Rowland said. 
"In all reality, a golf ball was formed, 
and it was smooth. It was round, and 
over time, after the golfers were hitting the golf balls, dents started happening, and they noticed that with every dent that was made in the golf ball, it made 
the golf ball go farther."
The message resonated with her gym-
nasts.
Practices ran smoother. As season comes to close, 
Rowland reflects on success By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Friday’s game against Georgia has a 
lot more at stake for the Bulldogs than it 
does the Gators.
With a perfect Southeastern Confer-
ence record, Florida needs only one win to guarantee a share of the SEC title. 
A victory against Georgia will earn 
the Florida women’s tennis team the sole possession of the title, despite the result against Tennessee on Sunday.
But Georgia is one of the toughest 
teams Florida will play. 
The Bulldogs are currently 17-2 with a 
10-1 SEC record and sit in second in the conference behind the Gators.
“We have to play well, and we have to 
be able to handle the crowd. The crowd can be tough and it can make it difficult for you to play good tennis,” coach Ro-land Thornqvist said. 
“We need to be able to handle (the 
crowd) and play within ourselves and not listen to the ooh-ha-ha from the stands.”
Florida's level of play this season has been consistent with the level Thorn-qvist wants them to be at.
Doubles play has been Florida's big-
gest strength, as the Gators have dropped 
just two doubles points 
this season.  
This season, senior 
Brianna Morgan and 
sophomore Anna Dani-
lina are both 9-1 in dual 
match doubles play. Against ranked oppo-
nents, the duo has gone 
5-1 through 2015-16. 
And in singles, Florida earned an im-
pressive 27-1 record during SEC play that saw them face eight current top-25 teams, including Vanderbilt, last sea-
son’s NCAA Champions.
Behind strong play in their last 
matchup against Auburn on April 10, the 
bottom of the Gators’ lineup came up strong, each winning in straight sets to 
help Florida sweep the Tigers. 
“I think it’s very important because 
we are coming up on tournament time. 
And if you play really well in the SEC UF one win away from SEC titleAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Peter Alonso follows through on a swing during UF's 10-4 loss to Mississippi State on Saturday 
at McKethan Stadium. 
WOMEN'S TENNISSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15 SEE W-TENNIS,  PAGE 15Morgan
“It's extremely frustrating. 
It doesn't feel good at all to 
have someone come on your 
home field and win two out of 
three.”
Peter Alonso
Florida first basemanFlorida faces FSU tonightKYRA JEFFERSON CAME 
TO FLORIDA AS AN 
UNKNOWN, BUT SHE’S 
LEAVING AS ONE OF THE 
ALL-TIME GREATS.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Kyra Jefferson had never heard 
of the University of Florida.
A single conversation changed 
that.
The summer before her senior 
year of high school, Kyra met 
with future UF teammates Robin Reynolds and Arman Hall, who convinced her to take a look at the Gators before making her col-lege decision.
“I was like, ‘What’s Florida?’” 
Kyra said. “I had only heard of FAMU and Florida State before I ever got recruited.”
If that conversation never hap-
pened, Kyra would likely be wear-ing LSU’s gold and purple — the colors she grew up rooting for — or Texas A&M’s maroon and 
white.
If that conversation never hap-
pened, Kyra would never have 
become a seven-time Indoor All-American, a three-time Outdoor All-American or a 2015 National Champion in the 4x400 and 4x100 relays as a Gator.
But fortunately for Florida, she 
made it to Gainesville.
“I remember when I was pick-
ing schools, we were talking about do you want to be a big fish in a little pond, or a little fish in a big pond?” Kyra said. “(The 
Southeastern Conference) is a lit-
tle pond, and I am trying to make myself a big fish.”
•   •   •
Growing up in Detroit, Kyra 
didn’t always want to run track.
At the age of four, she tried out 
sports like basketball and volley-ball, among others.
“She was a great swimmer at 
first,” Kyra’s mother, Michele Watkins, wrote in an email. “Track wasn’t even something on her mind.”
But Kyra couldn’t escape the 
fact that running track was in her DNA.
Watkins — who went by Mi-
chele Morris in college — was a seven-time All-American at LSU, and was a member of the 4x100 and 4x400 relay teams that won two national championships at the 1985 NCAA Outdoors.
Kyra’s dad, Thomas Jeffer-
son, won a bronze medal in the 200-meter dash at the 1984 Sum-
mer Olympics in Los Angeles.
With that background, Kyra be-
gan to run when she was around 
seven years old, her mother said.
“But we really did not know 
she found her stride until she was 12-13,” Watkins said.
That’s when Kyra started run-
ning track competitively.
She would go on to compete 
in high school at Cass Technical, where she garnered the interest of collegiate track and field pro-grams from across the country.
However, she heard nothing 
from Florida.
Or so she thought.Though Kyra had been on the 
radar of then-Florida assistant coach Brian O’Neal, he had been unsuccessful in his many attempts to contact her mom.
Without the conversation Kyra 
had with Robin and Arman, she might never have known about coach O’Neal and Florida’s inter-est in her.
In Miramar at the 2011 Pan 
American Junior Athletics Cham-pionships — a competition for elite track and field athletes un-der the age of 19 — Robin asked Kyra why she wasn’t interested in Florida. 
Kyra told her she hadn’t heard 
anything from UF.
“Robin was like, ‘Well girl, 
hold on. I’m going to call one of the coaches and see why he hasn’t been calling you,’” Kyra said.
Later in the meet, O’Neal met 
with Kyra and asked her why her mom wasn’t calling him back. That’s when he found out that Kyra’s mom had changed her phone number.
“So I gave him the right one 
and they talked at the meet,” Kyra said. 
“And from there, he gave me 
my date to come on my visit.”
Later that fall, Kyra decided 
among the five schools she vis-ited: Florida State, Florida, Texas A&M, Tennessee and LSU.
Even though she had grown up 
cheering for LSU, she decided that it wasn’t the best fit for her.That decision didn’t disappoint 
her mother.
“We decided a long time ago 
that the decision where she would attend school had (to) be hers be-cause she had to have the rela-tionship with her coach and her teammates,” Michele said. 
“I was just glad LSU was one 
of her top five.”
It came down to Texas A&M 
and Florida.
On her official visit to Florida 
in September of 2011, coach Mike Holloway gave Kyra a list of run-
ning progressions and times that 
he wanted her to achieve, year by year.
It was something no other 
coach had done for her.
She was sold.
•   •   •
Holloway knew that Kyra was 
going to be a special athlete early.
It was never a question.“When I talked to her, she was 
very serious and focused,” Hollo-
way said. 
“From the very first week 
or two that she was here, just 
watching her do things, I realized that she was even better than I thought she was.”
But it would take Kyra longer 
to realize her decision of running for Florida was the right one.
That realization came during 
her sophomore year at the Razor-back Invitational in 2013, when she broke a Florida school record for the first time.
“I was watching my other 
friends who went to Texas A&M excel and I was still running 23.4s,” said Kyra, who had bat-tled injuries the year before. 
“My sophomore year I stepped 
out on the track for my opener and I ran a 23.06. I didn’t even know it was a school record, but then after that my time kept drop-ping.”
Since then, Kyra has placed 
in UF’s top 10 in every indoor and outdoor event she has par-
ticipated in except for one — the 
100-meter dash. 
She also holds the UF record in 
the 200-meter dash.
But you wouldn’t be able to 
tell by talking to her.
Her support system — coach 
Holloway, her mother and team-mate Najee Glass’ mother Trina 
Glass — has kept her humble 
throughout the last four years, a feat that might be difficult for any other athlete that has reached her level of success.
Michele comes to every meet 
she can to support and push her daughter, which is something she cherishes.
“I enjoyed last year’s Florida 
Relay when she ran faster (than) me in the 400,” she said.  
“We are always comparing 
what her time is and mine at the same age.”
Over the last four years, Mi-
chele has seen her daughter grow both as an athlete and as a per-
son.
“Ky has matured on the track 
by being more of a leader and 
being open to change,” Michele said. “She is more focused, ac-countable and responsible.”And now, competing in her 
last outdoor season with Florida’s name across her chest, Kyra is fo-cused on making it her best yet, with goals of SEC, NCAA titles and beyond.
“The ultimate goal is to win na-
tionals, and from there win USAs to make the Olympic team,” Kyra said. “That is the ultimate goal.”
•   •   •
During her storied four-year 
career, Kyra has shattered school and national records and has ac-complished almost everything that a collegiate track star can.
She helped make Florida’s 
women’s track program nation-ally relevant again.
She embraced and lived up 
to the legacy left for her by her world-class runner parents.
She became a national cham-
pion.
But Kyra doesn’t want to be re-
membered for any of those things.
She would rather be known as 
the athlete who exceeded every-one’s expectations.
“I would like to be remem-
bered as a hard worker, like the underdog,” Kyra said. 
“I wasn’t the fastest in my re-
cruiting class. I wasn’t the best 
person at practice. I wasn’t the 
strongest person. But over time, I developed and became somebody that other people look up to just by working hard, praying and staying focused.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kyra Jefferson runs during the 2016 Pepsi Florida Relays on April 1 at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONSstate rival No. 6 Florida State at 6 
p.m. in Tallahassee.
It’s a familiar position for Flor-
ida, which will try to sweep the three-game season set with the Seminoles.
Two weeks ago, the Gators 
dropped back-to-back games against Kentucky before pulling out a 3-2 midweek win over FSU in Jacksonville.
Junior relief pitcher Shaun An-
derson said UF’s using the recent losses as fuel.
"It’s pretty heartbreaking," he 
said. "But it gets the team fired up."
Anderson, who was lights-out in 
his three innings of work Sunday, likely won’t be available tonight. He, Kirby Snead and Dane Dunning have been coach Kevin O’Sullivan’s 
go-to arms out of the bullpen in 
close games.
Dunning, who threw 71 pitches 
through five innings on Sunday, 
also won’t be available out of the 
pen.
The junior started Sunday’s 
game in place of lefthander A.J. 
Puk, who is still recovering from back spasms he suffered in his last start on April 3.
With a chunk of its pen depleted, 
Florida will rely on other arms to re-lieve freshman Jackson Kowar, who O’Sullivan said will probably start.
"We have to go up there and 
our pitching got taxed a little bit," O’Sullivan said. "We’ll have to have some other guys step up."
Florida State (22-8) is rolling, es-
pecially on offense. The Seminoles 
took two of three from No. 11 Lou-
isville this past weekend, scoring 29 
runs in the process.
Even more impressive is that 
those wins came in games started 
by the Cardinals’ Brendan McKay, 
Baseball America’s 2015 Freshman 
of the Year, and Kyle Funkhouser, a 2015 MLB first-round pick.
For the Gators, Alonso said 
they’re just focused on getting back on track.
"We just need to come out and 
have a good game against Florida State," he said. "It’ll be a big one."
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Anderson said UF is using losses as fuelThe team came closer together.
An eight-win regular season followed, 
with back-to-back victories at the South-eastern Conference Championships and the NCAA Minneapolis Regional Champi-
onships closely behind.
Now, less than a week from the end of 
the season and a potential national title, 
Rowland’s team stands united.
This competition will end the collegiate 
careers of seniors Bridget Sloan, Bridgette Caquatto, Bianca Dancose-Giambattisto and Morgan Frazier.
In addition, six Gator gymnasts hail 
from Texas, and friends and family are sure to fill the Fort Worth Convention Center stands come Friday.
And with the national championship 
on the line, emotions are likely to run high.
Regardless, Rowland’s message re-
mains the same.
"I’m trying to get them to understand 
that yes, this is the (end) of one journey, but they have many ahead of them, and not to get too wrapped up into it," she said.
"That’s something that we’ve talked 
a lot about, and, you know what, I told them to, again, enjoy this moment, be-
cause you’re never going to get it back 
again."
@aljb95
alopez@alligator.orgGYM,  from pg 13Four seniors will have their 
last chance at an NCAA title
tournament, you’re going to 
play Friday, Saturday and Sun-day."
 All season long, Thornqvist 
has been talking about wanting to see his team develop before the start of postseason.
Each week, Florida has 
shown they have improved since the two losses to No. 1 California on Feb. 26 and then-No. 16 Stanford on Feb. 28. 
Since those two match-
es, Florida hasn’t lost a dual match. 
Coming into the final week 
of the regular season, the vet-eran coach is pleased with his 
team’s progress. 
And with the postseason ap-
proaching, Florida needs to be 
playing its best tennis of the year.
“We knew we were going to 
be powerful, we knew we were going to hit the ball hard,” Thornqvist said. 
“But can we play our way 
out of trouble instead of kick-ing our way out of trouble? And it looks now that we are really embracing that, and that’s key come tournament time.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgW-TENNIS,  from pg 13The Gators haven't lost 
a match since Feb. 28
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Kevin O'Sullivan (center) meets with pitcher Dane Dunning (right) during UF's 2-1 loss 
to Mississippi State on Sunday at McKethan Stadium.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridgette Caquatto performs on floor during Florida's win over North Carolina on March 11 in the O'Connell Center.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Roland Thornqvist smiles during UF's 6-1 win over USF on Jan 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. Next, the Gators will face Georgia on the road on Friday to try to clinch the SEC title.
TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  THE NO. 6 GATORS TEE 
OFF ON FRIDAY IN ST. 
SIMONS, GEORGIA.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
While golf fans around the world 
were captivated by the Masters on 
Sunday, the Florida men’s golf team was putting in practice time at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
With the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship on Friday, the sixth-ranked Gators have no time to be fans. Coach J.C. Deacon said it’s about putting in the hard work to get ready — and they are.
“The guys were working hard,” 
Deacon said on Monday. “I hope they got to see (the Masters), but 
they were out there getting pre-
pared.” 
According to Deacon, it paid off.Eleven out of 10.That’s the number the second-
year coach gave to assess his play-ers’ commitment in practice.
“I think all five of them just know 
the opportunity that we have,” Dea-
con said. 
“All of them have been doing 
their thing to get ready. Alejandro 
(Tosti) has been looking really good, and Ryan Orr has been putting in some really, really hard work.”
The Gators will face stiff compe-
tition in St. Simons, Georgia, come tee time. In addition to Florida, four 
of the top-10 teams in the country 
are from the SEC, including No. 4 Vanderbilt, which bested the Gators by a single stroke to capture the Ma-son Rudolph Championship on April 3. 
In addition, of the 11 players on 
UF’s roster, only four have actually competed in an SEC Championship. 
Richard Donegan, A.J. Crouch, Orr 
and Tosti are the only Gators on the roster to have competed in the event.
The Gators’ top golfers, Sam 
Horsfield and Jorge Garcia, are fresh-men and new to the SEC experience.
But Deacon said he doesn’t ex-
pect that to be an issue.
In fact, it’s almost an advantage.
Horsfield, who collected his fourth 
SEC honor when he was named SEC Freshman of the Week on Wednes-
day, has won three events this year and is the winningest freshman in UF history. Horsfield is also fifth in the SEC in scoring average at 70.3. 
Garcia, even with recent strug-
gles, is still having a solid freshman season. 
He has finished in the top 20 in 
seven events and is third on the team in percentage of rounds counted at 88.9. Garcia has also had success outside of collegiate competition, 
including a win at the South Beach 
International Amateur, the World’s 14th-ranked amateur event, in De-cember. 
“Those guys are so seasoned 
tournament-wise that, you know, it shouldn’t make too much of a differ-ence,” Deacon said. 
“They’ve played with a lot of the 
guys that we’re going to play against and against the teams, so there shouldn’t be too much shock there.”
Deacon said all his players are 
committed to putting in the work, and he expects them to be in the fold come the final round.
“I’m excited for the guys,” Dea-
con said. 
“They’re gonna be prepared, and 
all these guys know how to get it done. It’s just a matter of time and going and executing now.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
J.C. Deacon looks on during the 2016 SunTrust Invitational at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Florida men’s golf team preparing for SECsWOMEN’S GOLF
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
Yielding to pressure and los-
ing focus can break a golfer, and 
after ending the regular season with a four-tournament winning streak, the pressure has mounted 
for Florida’s women’s golf team.
“We’ve had to hit the re-
set button because that’s what 
we’ve done after each win that 
we’ve had,” coach Emily Glaser 
said. “We have to go back to 
square one and say, ‘This is a 
new tournament. This is a new golf course.’ We have to break it down into each day.”
Heading into the Southeast-
ern Conference Championship on Friday, the Gators will have to deal with the pressure of car-rying their winning streak into 
the postseason. For Glaser, this 
means more of the same.
“We don’t want to change 
much from what we’ve been doing all spring,” Glaser said. “We’ll make sure that we ap-proach it the same way as we have the other tournaments, not 
doing anything extra or adding 
any extra pressure to ourselves. I don’t think that would help.”
For Florida, this consistent ap-
proach has been apparent both in the way it prepares and who it chooses to compete. The Gators 
have played the same five golfers 
in the last eight tournaments. 
 Their last tournament, how-
ever, featured a bump in the road.
Junior Maria Torres was tak-
en out of the lineup prior to the Clemson Invitational from April 1-3 due to a minor foot injury, 
Glaser said. In her place stepped 
junior Sydney Needham, hoping to continue UF’s run.
“She said she didn’t want this 
streak to end with her being in the lineup,” Glaser said of Need-ham. 
The streak didn’t end, but 
Needham’s first and second 
rounds were troubling for the 
Samford University transfer as she carded 8 over on both days.
Fortunately for Needham and 
the rest of the Gators, an under-par final round kept UF in the lead. 
Glaser believes the decision to 
sit Torres so close to the tourna-
ment placed added pressure on 
Needham.
“The first two days she didn’t 
play great, but that’s not the golf 
that we see from her when we’re 
at home,” Glaser said. “The last 
day is more of the type of player that she is.”
Although the Clemson Invita-
tional was Needham’s first tour-nament in UF’s  lineup, Glaser believed that Needham earned the appearance.
“She works really hard and 
deserved to be there. I know that she’s been frustrated that she hasn’t made the lineup up to this point,” Glaser said. 
Having to balance expecta-
tion and momentum, Glaser’s 
battle for her first SEC title and 
the team’s third NCAA national title may come down to how the squad learns to deal with the pressure.
“We’ll take it a lot like we 
have the other tournaments, a formula that we think has been working pretty well. Make sure 
that we go in there focused and 
relaxed.”
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.orgGators emphasizing 
consistency in lead-up to SEC Championship