We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 98 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
Florida softball team opens 
the season this weekend
UF plays Illinois State on Friday and 
No. 2 Michigan on Saturday, pg. 13
Global ﬁ  lms come to Gainesville
The Cinema Verde International Environmental Film and Arts Festival is this weekend, pg. 5
Research Roundup
Child development, rafting animals and tarantulas , pg. 8Check out our video and full 
transcript of the SG Debate
Go to 
alligator.org/news/student_government
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Impact Party presidential candidate Susan Webster (left) and Access Party presidential candidate 
Kalyani Hawaldar (right) speak during the Student Government debate on Monday night in the University Auditorium. T opics of discussion during the debate ranged from online voting and gridlock inside Student Senate to preeminence and representing graduate students.
SG Smackdown
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
At the only Student Government 
debate before elections, both Impact 
Party and Access Party spent the ma-jority of the time hurling insults at each other.
Moderator Marna Weston stepped 
in to remind the candidates about the purpose of the debate.
“I want to ask all sides to please 
continue the civility of the Gator tra-dition of this debate,” he said.
Monday night at the University 
Auditorium, executive candidates of the two parties spent an hour debat-
ing and answering questions submit-
ted by students. UF President Kent Fuchs also asked questions by video message, in front of a crowd of about 200 students.
Each party had two minutes to 
answer a question, followed by a minute of rebuttal from the other party. The party that answered a question ﬁ  rst then had another ﬁ  nal 30 seconds for rebuttal.
Impact was asked whether it was 
a rebranding of Swamp Party.
Susan Webster, the Impact Stu-
dent Body presidential candidate, 
said Impact was a result of Access 
members leaving their party.
“So many of my friends have left 
the Access Party because they want to stand behind proven leadership,” she said.
Access was critiqued for not 
having a successful executive term. Kalyani Hawaldar, the Access Party 
Student Body presidential candidate, argued that Access implemented gen-der-neutral restrooms across cam-
pus, and the executive ticket donated its salaries to the Machen Florida Op-portunity Scholars Program. One of Access’ platform points last Spring was online voting, which is now on the ballot for the upcoming election.
Hammaad Saber, the Access Stu-
dent Body candidate for vice presi-
dent, said online voting hasn’t been 
supported by the majority party in Senate.
“The lack of online voting in the 
21st century means there’s voter sup-pression, and we ﬁ  ght for the right for every Gator,” he said.  
Webster said she supports online 
voting.
“I want to work across the aisle 
all the time to make sure so we don’t have a standstill like we did last year,” she said.
Lillian Rozsa, the Access Student It was an hour-long debateLOCAL
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two Ku Klux Klan robes cov-
ered mannequins at the Mathe-son History Museum.
Nearby, glass encased a re-
ceipt from the Alachua County 
Bills of Sale that read: “To Sam-
uel W. Jones for the sale of en-slaved woman Briah.”
The artifacts, among others, 
are on display during the ex-hibit, “The Long Road to Free-dom: The Florida Black Heritage Trail,” which started today and runs through March 18.
Rebecca Fitzsimmons, a 
Matheson curator and archivist, said the exhibition showcases historical artifacts and discusses stories from the trail.
“In many ways, it’s a cel-
ebration of achievements and in many ways offers opportunities to remember tragic events,” said 
Fitzsimmons.
The exhibit features both na-
tional and local pieces, such as 
articles from The Ocala Evening Star.“My hope is that people will 
start to ask questions and start to think about this history in re-
lation to the past, present and 
future,” Fitzsimmons said.
Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney, a 22-
year old UF master’s student in the museum studies program, said the exhibit will start con-
versations and help people 
come to terms with the past.
“If you don’t already know 
about it, you’re probably not ever going to hear about it, which is why I think this is im-
portant, because that’s some-
thing that shouldn’t be hidden,” Hof-Mahoney, a museum intern, said.Exhibit to reveal 
hidden histories
THEY OFFERED FREE 
BURRITOS.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
At 2:34 p.m. Monday, the Chi-
potle on West University Avenue 
was empty.
The smell of steak drifted 
through the door. By 3:04 p.m., 
four minutes after the restaurant 
opened, a line of patrons stretched from the tortilla press to the door.
Chipotle locations across the na-
tion were closed Monday for an all-staff meeting to discuss food safety and the recent E. coli outbreak, ac-cording to a company Twitter post.
As of press time, E. coli found in 
Chipotle locations across 11 states — not including Florida — sent 21 people to the hospital during the initial outbreak, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
A sign on the West University 
Avenue location informed hungry 
Chipotle lovers of the meeting, and 
it promised free burritos for their patience. What it didn’t say was this: The burritos won’t be avail-able until today.
Alex Vance, a 21-year-old UF 
math and economics junior, re-ceived a text about the promotion from his friend. Vance arrived at 
the restaurant when it opened. He 
did not bring his wallet.
“I made it all the way through 
the line, my bowl was made, and they started ringing me up,” Vance said.
Vance thought the burrito was 
free, and even though the coupons Chipotle closes Monday 
for E. coli meeting
SEE DEBATE,  PAGE 4 SEE CHIPOTLE,  PAGE 4“If you don’t already know 
about it, you’re probably not 
ever going to hear about it, 
which is why I think this 
is important, because that’s 
something that shouldn’t be 
hidden.”
Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney
UF master’s student 
and museum internSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
'Directing Shakespeare: A 
Scholar Onstage'
In commemoration of the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death, profes-
sor Sidney Homan will pres-
ent a lecture on “Directing Shakespeare: A Scholar on Stage” on Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. in the Judaica Suite. The suite is situated on the second floor of Smathers Library in the Special Collections Grand Reading Room. Homan is a UF 
English professor and a visit-
ing professor at Jilin University in China. An actor and direc-tor in commercial and univer-sity theaters, he is also the au-thor of some eleven books on Shakespeare and the modern playwrights.
There’s No Debate About 
Consent!Join UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education for Consent Week for opportunities to learn and talk about what consent is, what it isn’t and how to navigate un-certainties. Today, STRIVE will 
be hosting a panel of experts for 
“Loud & Queer Consent” in the atrium of Ustler Hall from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. This Thursday, you can find Cupid’s Consent Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. There will be games and prizes, not to mention opportunities to win 
exclusive STRIVE prize packs 
and Consent 2016 T-shirts!
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum, Feb. 13Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games. 
The program fee includes ad-
mission to the “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” exhibit and participation in trivia night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The program fee is $10 per per-son or $15 per couple, and it’s 
free for both UF students with 
valid Gator 1 Cards and mu-seum members. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more information, call 352-273-2061.
Faculty recital: Duo Anno 1647 
featuring Kristen Stoner playing the fluteThe UF School of Music pres-ents a performance by Duo Anno 1647, including UF fac-ulty member Dr. Kristen Stoner (flute) and guest artist Manabu Takasawa (piano), from the University of Rhode Island, on Feb. 15 at 7:30 p.m. The performance is in the Music 
Building, Room 101, and is 
free and open to the public. They will perform “Poem” by Charles Griffes, “Ballade” by Frank Martin, “Deep Blue” by Ian Clarke, “Sonatina” by Camargo Guarnieri, “First Sonata” by Bohuslav Martinu and “Soliloquy” by Jake Heggie.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 98
HIGH  55° LOW  32°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
won’t be released until today, he re-
ceived it free of charge anyway. He  said he eats at Chipotle about once a week, despite the E. coli outbreak.
“At the end of the day, if I want a 
burrito, I don’t want to go anywhere else,” he said.
Most guests who arrived at Chi-
potle came for free burritos, but some had no idea the restaurant was closed at all.
Patrons pulled on locked doors before 3 p.m. and were forced to eat elsewhere — good news for Fire-house Subs next door.
Robert Law, Monday’s shift man-
ager at Firehouse Subs, said the res-
taurant was informed of Chipotle’s 
closing and employed extra staff to compensate for an influx of hungry people.
“We’ve gotten a lot of Chipotle 
overflow,” Law said. “They’re keep-ing us busy today.”
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org
Body candidate for treasurer, said debate and deliberation create a healthy environment for democracy.
“Our university is not used to a two-party 
system, and that’s not right,” she said. “Democ-racy doesn’t function with just one party.”
After both parties gave their closing state-
ments, Access Party chanted in celebration while Impact Party gathered together. 
As students filed out of the auditorium, Car-
oline Kaplan lingered. The 19-year-old said the SG debate was her first time watching any type of political debate.
“I’ll definitely be voting because now I see 
that it’s something I shouldn’t ignore,” the ad-vertising sophomore said. “Because it affects everyone, including me.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
About 200 students watched and applauded as the executive ticket candidates were introduced for the Student Government 
debate in the University Auditorium on Monday. The debate, which lasted just over an hour, was the only one to occur prior to SG elections, which will take place Feb. 16 and 17.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Greg Bello, a 20-year-old UF biology sophomore, takes a photo of a sign at Chipotle explaining how to obtain a coupon for a free burrito. Chipotle closed all its stores Monday for a nationwide company meeting that lasted until 3 p.m.
LOCAL
By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
In light of the 2016 presiden-
tial elections, more people are expected to attend the Restora-tion of Civil Rights Workshop on Thursday.
From 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., 
people with felony convictions are invited to the Tower Road Branch Library, situated at 3020 SW 75th St., to possibly restore their rights to vote, hold public office and sit on a jury.
Meshon Rawls, a UF legal 
professor and the event’s coor-dinator, said she started working to restore rights in 2005.
She said more people are ex-
pected to attend the event with the goal of voting in the upcom-ing elections.
However, those people may 
have a false sense of hope, she said.
“What they often don’t under-
stand is that you have to wait to file for five years after a minor offense sentence and seven years after a major offense sentence,” Rawls said.
After getting involved with 
the library two years ago, Rawls started training 30 UF students each Fall to help with the events, which are held six times a year.
Aside from voting, Rawls said 
most attendees hope to over-
come obstacles in the way of 
finding better jobs or homes.
“These things that they’ve 
done are in the past, and they want to move forward, but the 
system is holding them back,” 
she said.
Phillis Filer, the public servic-
es administrator for the Alachua 
County Library District branch-
es, said experts at the event help 
people understand their personal 
situations.
“Even if you just have an un-
derstanding that your rights may 
be restored, that’s a breath of re-
lief,” she said. “They know that 
even if it’s a long tunnel, there is 
a light. If they don’t know that, 
it’s like being lost in a fog.”
Rawls said it’s hard work put-
ting on the event, but she doesn’t mind.
“I feel a sense of responsibil-
ity,” Rawls said. “If all it takes 
for me is learning this process 
and being able to educate peo-
ple, then it’s the least I can do 
to help.”Workshop offers 
felons a chance to restore rightsCHIPOTLE,  from pg 1The free burritos are redeemable today
DEBATE,  from pg 1Both parties promote improvements across campus for students• Initial outbreak detected in 
late October
• Most recent illness started Dec. 1
• Case count from the initial outbreak: 55
• The initial outbreak, along with a second smaller one, both appear to be over.
Source: cdc.gov/ecoli/2015/o26-11-15/
ON THE BALLOT 
Spring SG elections are Feb. 16 and 17
• Student Body President
• Student Body Vice 
President
• Student Body Treasurer
• 50 senators, elected by college or year
• Amendment to allow 
for online votingTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Dan Barker, the co-president of the Freedom From Religion Foun-
dation, speaks to about 60 students and Gainesville residents about atheism and the meaning of life. “We give value to things that are rare, ” he said. “So we atheists and non-believers acknowledge that our lives are brief, which gives them more value. ” 
By Brenna McKenna
Alligator Contributing Writer
The 7th Annual Cinema Verde 
International Environmental Film 
and Arts Festival is coming to the 
Hippodrome State Theatre from 
Thursday to Sunday.
The festival will host 18 feature-
length films and 22 short films 
from around the world, according 
to a press release.
The footage — filmed in plac-
es such as Australia, Japan and Florida — focuses on sustainable 
solutions to environmental issues, 
according to the release.
Trish Riley, director of Cinema Verde, said she hopes more people 
enjoy the films each year, especial-
ly as the nonprofit event’s need for funding grows with its popularity.
“It’s still a mountain worth 
climbing,” she said.
A VIP reception opens the event 
Thursday, followed by a local food potluck Saturday and an EcoFair 
on Sunday.
Sunday’s fair includes art, mu-
sic, vendors and films at the Sun 
Center Plaza, situated at 101 SE 
second Place, according to the re-
lease.
Elam Stoltzfus, an Emmy-
award-winning filmmaker who earned his bachelor’s degree from Florida State University, will start the festival with his film, “Coastal Dune Lakes: Jewels of Florida’s 
Emerald Coast.” Stoltzfus’s film re-
veals why the lakes are special and what can be done to protect them.
Tickets for general admission 
to the festival are $7 and VIP tick-
ets are $25, and both are available 
for purchase on the Hippodrome’s website.
Melissa Horadam, a UF busi-
ness administration and master of international business senior, is a fundraising and donor communi-cations intern for the event.
The 22-year-old said she be-
lieves everyone can find something to enjoy at the festival.
“This isn’t just about tree hug-
gers; there is a variety of aspects to 
sustainability,” Horadam said.Global films come to Gainesville
THE SEVEN-WEEK PROGRAM RUNS 
FROM FEB. 17 TO MARCH 16.
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County Emergency Management will host 
a free seven-week program designed to help citizens 
respond to crises.
Coordinator Ebbin Spellman said Community Emer-
gency Response Team training, or CERT, is a free pub-
lic program that runs from Feb. 17 to March 16.
Every Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., students 
will learn tactics to survive both natural and man-made 
disasters, Ebbin said.
The deadline to apply is Monday, Spellman said, but 
anyone who is 18 years or older can still participate if he or she misses sign-ups. Classes will be held at the Alachua County Emergency Operations Center, situ-ated at 1100 SE 27th St.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(FEMA) started the nationwide CERT program after earthquakes in California created a need for citizens trained in emergency response, Spellman said. The lo-cal program is supported by grants and local govern-
ment.
“People have a natural instinct to try to help their 
fellow citizens,” he said.
Spellman said he’ll be the primary instructor during 
the course, which includes fire safety, emergency medi-
cal services and disaster psychology.
Other instructors will share training from their areas 
of expertise.
John Foltz, a volunteer at the Emergency Operations 
Center, first took the course in 1999, just one year after Emergency Management Director David Donnelly es-
tablished it in Alachua County.
“As citizens, we need to realize that we can’t have 
immediate 911 services during times of crisis,” he said.
For Foltz, CERT is about training residents to pre-
pare themselves for a future where anything is possible.
“The benefits of this goes well beyond just the 
neighborhood,” Spellman said. “It’s something you can 
carry with you no matter where you are.”Free disaster-response trainingBy Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF group will educate students about safe sex and 
healthy relationships this week.
UF’s Hispanic-Latino Affairs will host workshops as 
part of its first “HLA Loves You Week.” The group aims to break cultural taboos in the Hispanic culture regard-
ing sex before marriage and interracial and same-sex 
relationships.     
Jacof Teran, a UF sociology senior, said he wants to 
talk about overcoming cultural taboos regarding sex.  
“This portion aims to create a safe place for wom-
en to learn about healthy sex,” the 21-year-old said. “The presentation will have topics about contraception, STDs and different forms of birth control.”
Teran is also a panelist for the “Love Is Blind” work-
shop.
“I’m in a same-sex relationship, so I’ll be giving that 
perspective, the ups and downs but also the fruits and joys being Latino,” he said.
The ultimate goal of the event is to express that love 
is blind and breaks the barrier of any background, he said.
Friday, HLA will pass out condoms and Life Saver 
candies on Turlington Plaza, said Diana Moreno, a pro-
gram coordinator for HLA.
Mary Ansell, a UF English senior, said she will at-tend events and is glad HLA is educating students 
about STDs.
“I know people that have HIV and had they been 
more educated, it could have prevented them from getting it,” the 22-year-old said. “Valentine’s Day is a time to be with your lover, and I’m thrilled to attend an event that endorses healthy love.”UF group looks to overcome taboos
TODAY
“Each One, T each One: A 
Comprehensive Sex Workshop”
7:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at La Casita
WEDNESDAY
“Love is Blind: A Look at Interracial
 and Same Sex Relationships”
12:45 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. at La Casita
THURSDAY
“Romantic Movie Marathon”
10 a.m. to 9 p.m. at La Casita
FRIDAY
“Lifesavers: Condom Awareness”
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Turlington Plaza
SPEAKER DISCUSSES 
ATHEISM, MEANING OF 
LIFE.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Dan Barker told about 60 students 
and Gainesville residents that there is no meaning to life Monday night.
Barker, the co-president of the 
Freedom From Religion Foundation, 
a nonprofit organization that advo-
cates for the separation of church and state, discussed atheist beliefs. The former evangelical minister said those who don’t believe in a god can find purpose to life without religion.
Barker said he used to preach 
the Bible, as some do on Turlington Plaza.
“I was that guy,” he said. “You’ve 
seen those guys on campus with the Bible, and they’re very confident about their love of Christ.”
Barker also spoke about his new-
est book, “Life Driven Purpose: How an Atheist Finds Meaning.” He said he wrote the book in response to “The Purpose Driven Life: What on 
Earth Am I Here For?” written by 
Rick Warren, an evangelical pastor of Saddleback Church, a megachurch in California.
Warren’s book emphasizes God’s 
plan and the necessity of religion, he said. Barker said his book teaches people to find the meaning to life in-side themselves instead.He said while there is no over-
all purpose to life, people can find meaning within their personal lives through work done on earth.
Barker said atheists can solve sci-
entific questions, social inequality and poverty to find meaning.
“If you are working actively to try 
to surmount those problems, then 
there is purpose in life,” he said.
He said not all atheists think life is 
meaningless.
“We give value to things that are 
rare,” he said. “So we atheists and 
non-believers acknowledge that our lives are brief, which gives them more value.”
Julie Bontems, a UF political sci-
ence and criminology senior, said she wanted to hear Barker speak so she could connect with other atheists.
“I think it’s very important to 
have these kind of discussions,” the 21-year-old said.
She founded Humanists on Cam-
pus, a discussion-based non-secular organization, and is a member of 
Gator Freethought, a student organi-
zation that focuses on philosophical views.
She said both organizations dis-
cuss purpose in life. The definition of atheism varies by person.
“I think people have this idea who 
we are, that we’re cynical, and that’s not the reality,” Bontems said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org‘There is no 
meaning to life’
Festival is this weekendThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Rubio’s policies are not truly conservative 
As the Republican contention for who will 
win the party’s primary boils down to just nine candidates — only seven be-ing worthy enough for Sunday night’s stage — a favorite and hopeful among 
Republican voters is Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla. Particularly popular among Republican youth, Rubio has gained clout in staying relevant to voters despite having to contend with the show-stealing bravado of the party’s two frontrunners, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and the braggart billion-aire Donald J. Trump, placing third in the Iowa caucus just behind “The Donald” himself.  
It should come as no surprise that Rubio is attractive 
to the young Republican constituency: His youth, promise to balance the budget and devotion to the myth of trick-le-down economics are hot topics for Republicans who frequent Hot Topic. Here in Florida, his status as a Gator doesn’t hurt his popularity either. But what is surprising is hearing a prospective voter speak of Rubio as one of the few truly conservative candidates among the Republican assortment, claiming he is among the few who understand what it is to push for and enact responsible ﬁ  scal policies. 
But Marco Rubio is not a conservative.
Rubio’s subscription to the tenets of modern Republi-
canism — denial of man-made climate change, belief that 
marriage is between a woman and a man, opposition to anything with Obama’s ﬁ  ngerprints on it — is enough to grant him the label of a Republican. He has earned that and nobody wants to take that away from him. Of the title of a true conservative, however, Rubio is not worthy.
Replacing the Affordable Care Act with tax credits and 
fewer regulations, cutting corporate taxes to 25 percent (taxes that won’t get paid anyway) and capping economic regulations: These are applications of the tenets of conser-vatism that have duped a good portion of the American population into heralding the Republican party as “the ﬁ  s-cal ones.” Marco Rubio has supported all of these. And yet, with his promise to balance the budget, Rubio throws all of his supposed conservatism aside when he vows to increase defense spending.
Prioritizing defense is the position of war-
hawks, not conservatives. A true conservative doesn’t view the now-defunct and ﬂ  awed $1.5 trillion F-35 jet as a ﬁ  scally responsible maneu-
ver. Republicans who share Rubio’s sentiments 
warn about the loom of socialism, regulation and superﬂ  uous taxation by the federal govern-ment but then advocate excessive spending on a program that taxes the hell out of the American people.
The hypocrisy of Rubio’s stance doesn’t end at the advo-
cacy for funding a bigger and badder military. The senator’s belligerent demeanor when it comes to foreign policy is also 
one that contradicts the essence of economic conservatism.
Promises to have a lasting presence in Iraq and levy-
ing tougher sanctions on Iran while scrapping the current 
nuclear deal are not actions that induce a more fruitful economy. 
Actually, any investment like the one Rubio proposes 
militarily in Iraq would equate to a divestment of the Amer-ican people. The billions of dollars spent on a futile cam-paign in Iraq are a smack in the face to social programs 
of value. The campaign would not only cost the American 
people a substantial sum of money; it would also place a substantial cost of living (literally) on fathers, brothers and husbands.
Scrapping the Iran nuclear deal not only increases the 
risk of further tension between our nation and another in the Middle East, but it also ignores the economic possibili-ties that can arise from opening up trade routes to Iran. After all, it is a mainstay of free-trade philosophy that a 
country does not wage war against one with which it trades 
freely. 
Advocating for more costly war campaigns in the Levant 
and vowing to scrap diplomatic relations with Iran are not conservative values: They’re those of American Republi-cans.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays.Florida’s death 
penalty is shameful
Judge, jury and executioner: Although this idiom is meant 
to refer to someone having ultimate power and authority over one’s fate, the legal system of the U.S. is designed in 
such a way that these three functions are meant to remain 
relatively distinct and act with a measure of independence 
from one another. Last month, the U.S. Supreme Court found two of these roles to be a little too close for its liking in the case 
of Hurst v. Florida.
In an 8-1 ruling, the court found that Florida’s methodology 
for imposing the death penalty was unconstitutional, violating 
the Sixth Amendment’s stipulation that a defendant have the right to an impartial jury. The ruling was predicated on the 
premise that far too much power is allotted to Floridian judg-
es when considering aggravating or mitigating circumstances (factors that, respectively, increase or decrease the severity of a sentence) that would qualify a defendant for the death penalty. 
In the eyes of the court, the Sixth Amendment requires “Florida 
to base Timothy Hurst’s death sentence on a jury’s verdict, not a judge’s factﬁ  nding,” according to Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who delivered the majority opinion. 
The opinion continues: “Florida’s sentencing scheme, which 
required the judge alone to ﬁ  nd the existence of an aggravat-ing circumstance, is therefore unconstitutional.” The case was reversed and remanded, meaning that it was now the Florida Supreme Court’s responsibility to adjust Floridian law in ac-
cordance with the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling.
Although the decision was issued Jan. 12, it would not be 
until last Tuesday, Feb. 2, that the ruling in Hurst v. Florida 
would have a discernible impact on our state’s legal proceed-ings. As reported in these very pages, the Florida Supreme 
Court delayed the execution of Cary Michael Lambrix. Lam-
brix, who was convicted of the murders of Clarence Moore and Aleisha Bryant in 1983, had been scheduled to die by lethal injection this Thursday.
After hearing arguments for and against applying the Hurst 
ruling retroactively — which would most likely result in Lam-brix and others on Florida’s death row having their sentences reduced to life in prison, rather than execution — it is now up to the justices on Florida’s highest court to decide whether 
to go ahead with the execution of Lambrix and the 388 oth-
ers languishing on death row. Concurrently, members of the Florida House of Representatives are working to draft a bill that would bring our state’s death penalty statute in line with those 
of other states and the U.S. Supreme Court’s interpretation of 
the U.S. Constitution.
It should surprise few that we strongly believe this should 
never have been an issue to begin with. The death penalty is a barbaric punishment ﬁ  t only for barbaric societies: It is 
morally presumptuous, a drain on our tax dollars, a prominent 
blemish on our democracy and, here in the U.S., tinged with a considerable degree of racism and classism. For a country that so emphatically prides itself on being a pluralistic, self-
determining society, the U.S. seems all too comfortable in the 
same company as China, Iran and North Korea when it comes to murdering its own citizens.
Whether Lambrix and others are granted a permanent re-
prieve, we have no doubts that the Florida Legislature will ﬁ  nd 
a way to ensure future sentences legally satiate their bloodlust. 
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As an English major, it 
goes without saying that books are a huge part 
of my life. They pile up 
on any and every ﬂ  at 
surface in my apartment, slowly accumulating and overtaking 
my space. With my meager Ikea 
bookshelf packed to the brim, I’ve started using bedside tables, coffee tables, dressers and desks in an effort to contain them. I roll my eyes 
at anyone who dares suggest I buy a Kin-
dle and wring my hands when my mother mentions our family history of hoarding. There are books worn and dog-eared from 
frequent readings, books I’ve only half-
read, books I promise myself I’ll read one day (hello, “Inﬁ  nite Jest”), and books that, let’s be honest, are just there for aesthetic purposes.
I would wager I buy somewhere around 
25 books each semester, including those necessary for English courses and ones I’ve convinced myself at 2 a.m. I couldn’t live 
without. Needless to say, I’ve become a 
sort of reluctant Amazon expert. Do I wish that I could buy all these books at local independent bookstores? Absolutely. Do I have the time, patience or funds to do this? 
Hell no. Every time I get an order conﬁ  rma-
tion email from Amazon, it’s not without a little guilt.
So when a rumor leaked through mall 
executive Sandeep Mathrani that Amazon planned to open 300 to 400 retail locations, I wasn’t sure what to think. As someone who’s spent the majority of her life watch-ing major brick-and-mortar bookstores like 
Borders fall into extinction due largely to 
Amazon’s competitive business model, it’s a strange concept to wrap my head around. While Mathrani quickly rescinded 
his statement, Amazon maintains that the 
brick-and-mortar expansion is happening, with the San Diego Union-Tribune report-ing that the corporation has begun hiring for stores in Southern California.
According to The New York Times, 
these bookstores would be similar to the Amazon Books store, which opened in Se-attle over a year ago. In the store, books 
are offered at their online price and supple-mented with customer ratings 
and reviews, a concept meant to mimic the “traditional” Amazon 
experience while also determin-
ing what books are sold at the retail level. Of course, Amazon’s Kindle, Fire tablets, Echo and 
other assorted gadgets I couldn’t 
care less about will also be on display. The decor of the Seattle location was described by The 
Atlantic as “Barnes & Noble-like,” possibly 
because it previously belonged to Barnes 
& Noble.
There’s two ways to interpret this vastly 
unexpected move: as an exciting develop-
ment placing value in traditional book-
stores, or a foreboding sign of Amazon’s constant consolidation of power. I ﬁ  nd my-self caught between these camps, as only time will tell what exactly this decision 
means for the book market. Media outlets 
have had similarly diverging responses, with article titles ranging from The Atlan-tic’s “Did Amazon Just Replace the Pub-
lic Library?” to Gizmodo’s “Amazon Will 
Open Physical Bookstores Because Life Is a Practical Joke Played On Us All.”
Despite many literary enthusiasts pre-
dicting the collapse of the traditional book-
store as we know it, I’m not convinced. 
Even as Borders and Barnes & Noble took massive hits from Amazon, smaller, indie bookstores experienced an unexpected 
resurgence, nearly doubling in numbers 
since 2009, according to the American Booksellers Association. Let’s face it, the book lovers aren’t going anywhere anytime soon. We keep forgetting that passionate 
consumers don’t operate according to capi-
talist economics, because they’re driven by something much more compelling.
Above all, Amazon’s expansion is a sig-
nal that a market traditionally viewed as stagnant and archaic is gradually evolv-ing. Perhaps these stores will have the same fate as their predecessors, or perhaps they’ll ﬂ  ourish — that’s for the business 
majors to ﬁ  gure out. All I know is I’m ea-
ger to see where it goes, and I’m deﬁ  nitely going to need a bigger bookshelf.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Book lovers and the Amazon expansionColumn
As enticing and accessible 
as the 2016 presidential election is, there are other issues we Florid-ians ought to concern 
ourselves with. I’m speaking in particular of the Pastor Protec-tion Act, which would absolve pastors of any liability to per-form marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples.  
A same-sex couple’s ability 
to wed would rest solely on the personal beliefs of an individual pastor, essentially 
undermining last year’s Supreme Court 
decision to lift all state-sanctioned bans on gay marriage.
While Florida’s Pastor Protection Act 
awaits a ﬁ  nal vote on the ﬂ  oor of the Flor-ida House of Representatives, it still has two Florida Senate committees left before reaching the Senate ﬂ  oor for a vote. In the meantime, though, it’s worth opening up 
a conversation about the issue at hand.
We often hear opposition to same-
sex marriage framed by moral terminol-
ogy, inspired by ideals of the “sanctity of marriage” or “family values.” First, what qualiﬁ  es a marriage as being sacred? The marriage rate has steadily declined in re-cent years, and 40 to 50 percent of U.S. marriages end in divorce. So, sanctity is 
not necessarily deﬁ  ned by marital longev-
ity.
Many then argue that the sanctity is de-
ﬁ  ned by the joining of a man and a wom-an. By this logic, any family environment provided by a same-sex couple, no mat-ter how happy and stable, will inevitably fall morally inferior to that provided by a heterosexual couple — even if said hetero-
sexual couple is neglectful or abusive. I 
urge you to consider which metric is more important for family values: the joining between a man and woman, or the actual dynamic of the home and family.
The point is that “sanctity of marriage” 
and “family values” are entirely subjective notions. When talking about the Pastor Protection Act, we must keep in mind that 
we’re ultimately discussing the preferenc-
es and religiously motivated intentions of a certain population of pastors and reli-gious clerics who decry homosexuality as sinful, and thereby dismissible.
In my view, the Bible’s rejection of 
same-sex relations is not enough justiﬁ  ca-tion to reject homosexuality more broadly. Our society commits sins all the time by collectively outlawing actions that the Bible would have us perform.  Slavery, capi-tal punishment for adultery, 
stoning non-virgin brides: These 
are all Biblically permissible practices from which we have distanced ourselves for the bet-terment of society. Accepting same-sex marriage is part of this natural progression — a rec-
onciliation between religious values and modern societal practices.
With these criticisms in mind, the last 
line of defense for the Pastor Protection Act typically regards the individual liberty of pastors. Voices like that of Texas Attor-ney General Ken Paxton argue, “No Pas-tor, Priest, Rabbi or other religious leader should be forced to perform or recognize a marriage that contradicts his or her sin-cere religious belief.”
To this, I reference John Adams’ argu-
ment that we are “a government of laws and not men.” Individual liberty is com-mendable insofar as the liberty of others and the communal good are protected. For example, I work as a copy editor with the Alligator on Wednesday nights. I’m also not a particular fan of “Obama-Nazi” rhet-oric. However, if I were to edit a story with 
a writer who proudly wears a T-shirt of a 
Hitler-mustachioed Obama — as much as it might pain me — I must swallow my pride and give this hypothetical individual fair treatment by law.
Likewise, in spite of strong moral op-
position from some religious clerics, a same-sex couple’s 14th Amendment right to equal opportunity and non-discrimina-
tion supersedes the individual beliefs of 
certain pastors.
While the Pastor Protection Act still 
has a way to go before reaching Gov. Rick Scott’s desk for approval, I think it’s im-portant for us Floridians to openly discuss the issues out in the open, rather than al-low our representatives to make decisions for us behind closed doors.
As for marriage itself, I defer to come-
dian Bill Burr’s argument that marriage “is an absolutely insane thing to do: gay or straight. Gays have no idea what they’re walking into.”
David Hoffman is a UF history and 
physics sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
Do pastors really need protecting?Column
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
David 
Hoffman
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
STILL RIDING
Luis Zavala, a 20-year-old UF biology junior, rides his hoverboard on Turlington Plaza on 
Monday. Despite the recent bans from RTS buses and UF residence halls due to concerns of combusting batteries, Zavala said he used his hoverboard to get around all the time, though he said he understands the reasons for the bans.
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
About three weeks after they 
were reported for “loudly” playing 
basketball, nine Gainesville kids and a handful of police ofﬁ  cers sat courtside at an NBA game Sunday 
afternoon.
In late January, representa-
tives for the Orlando Magic invited 
Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  cer Bobby White to accompany the kids and their parents to the game, said Of-ﬁ  cer Ben Tobias, spokesman for the Gainesville Police.
By the game’s end, as the Magic 
beat the Atlanta Hawks on a late-game shot, the kids loudly celebrat-ed — free from fear of complaints.
“You could just see their faces 
glowing,” Tobias said.
Sunday afternoon, the group 
drove to Orlando’s Amway Center on a team bus. When they arrived, the kids watched player warmups and received autographs, Tobias said.
Ofﬁ  cer White, famous for a 
dashboard-camera video showing him and the kids playing basket-
ball, announced the news in the 
same neighborhood where the vid-eo was ﬁ  lmed.
In the footage of the announce-
ment, the kids screamed and waved their arms in the air.
“If any of y’all get in any trouble by then, you’re out of my crew, so you don’t get to go,” White says in the video. 
Tobias, who posted a video of 
the original encounter and watched it reach millions of views, said he still can’t believe how much atten-tion it brought the department.
He said it’s a refreshing break 
from negative police interactions seen around the country, often in-volving younger people.
“Hopefully we’ve surprised ev-
eryone, including the kids,” Tobias said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org ‘Basketball Cop,’ kids invited to NBA
 RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Research shows prenatal 
stress can affect babies’ development
Even before birth, children in 
areas of war may be affected by 
the stress of their mothers.
Darlene Kertes, an assistant 
professor for UF’s department of 
psychology, found that prenatal 
stress has negative outcomes for child development. She decided to research it to prove the connec-tion.
“One of the challenges is that 
we don’t really understand the biological mechanisms by which that happens,” she said.
Kertes worked with UF re-
searchers along with physicians and staff from a hospital in the Democratic Republic of Congo for the study. One of the reasons they picked the DRC was armed con-ﬂ  ict has been going on there for years. There is also a high degree of violence against women.
Kertes said the research team 
interviewed mothers and collect-
ed biological samples, like umbili-
cal cord blood and placenta, from babies and mothers at the time of birth.
She said the study proved the 
stress of war can affect genes that regulate the brain’s response to stress. These changes were linked to babies’ birth weight and re-
sponse to stress. Kertes also said 
the research gathered shows stress experienced early in life can permanently shape how children respond to stress.
“It’s potentially setting up 
those babies’ development differ-ently,” she said.
- Cecilia Mazanec
Rafting animals cling to 
barnacles on plastic debris in the ocean
Researchers at UF have 
found that barnacles allow raft-
ing animals to cling to plastic debris found in the northern Paciﬁ  c Ocean.
Mike Gil, a UF biology grad-
uate student at the time, led the recently-published study. Rafting animals are underwater species, such as crabs and mus-sels that live on debris.
While the animals are usu-
ally found on patches of sea-grass, Gil found they can also 
be on man-made debris, such 
as buoys and bottle caps, as the animals cling to barnacles. 
He wanted to study the de-
bris after a colleague told him he should look into the rela-tionship of debris and rafting animals.
Gil did his research on the 
North Paciﬁ  c Subtropical Gyre, 
a system of ocean currents.
Gil said he and his team 
watched for pieces of debris 
from the deck of a ship.
They pulled the plastic de-
bris out of the water and put it in a bin so any critters that fell out would be captured. Then they identiﬁ  ed and counted the 
critters, Gil said.
Aside from the barnacles, 
they found mussels, sea worms 
and crabs on the debris.
“We spent almost all the 
time in the middle of nowhere,” he said.
-Melissa Rodriguez
Researcher names new 
species of tarantula after Johnny Cash
A now Florida Museum of 
Natural History researcher helped 
discover 14 species of tarantulas, naming one after Johnny Cash.
Chris Hamilton, the lead au-
thor of the study, said he named one of the spiders, Aphonopelma johnnycashi, after Cash because it was black, the way Cash dressed, and was found near Folsom Pris-on — the subject of one of Cash’s songs, “Folsom Prison Blues.”
The spiders are found across 
the U.S., he said. He wanted to 
research tarantulas because he 
felt there hadn’t been many dis-covered. To start their studies, the researchers looked at spiders in museum collections.
To ﬁ  nd specimens, research-ers used information from natu-ral history collections. Scientists have to look at thousands of spec-imens to identify new species be-cause tarantulas can look similar.  
They used genomics, which 
allows researchers to look at hun-dreds of genes at a once, to iden-tify new species.  
The effect of naming a spider 
after Cash was unintentional, but Hamilton said he believes it will help increase interest in biodiver-sity.
He said he hopes people real-
ize tarantulas aren’t evil and un-derstand them better.
“Tarantulas are charismatic,” 
he said. “I call them teddy bears because they’re hairy and furry, but also because they are so laid-back.”
-Andrea BenaimTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
Campaigns target Super Bowl 
viewers in early primary states
WASHINGTON — Among Super Bowl advertise-
ments for Doritos, dachshunds chasing ketchup bottles and Dame Helen Mirren encouraging responsible alcohol consumption, football fans in New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada also got a dose of presidential poli-tics.
Data from political ad tracker Kantar Media show that 
three presidential campaigns and four super PACs took advantage of the perennial ratings powerhouse to try to sway voters in states that hold primaries or caucuses in the next few weeks.
Football fans in those states saw George W. Bush 
talk up his brother, super PACs supporting Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio trade jabs, and Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders tout their qualifications for inhabiting the White House.
South Carolina, where Republican voters go to the 
polls Feb. 20, saw the most ads — more than 20 during the game. And viewers in Charleston, South Carolina, got a triple whammy.
In one commercial, the Cruz-aligned Keep the Prom-
ise I, portrayed Rubio as more concerned with fantasy football than world affairs. Then Clinton ran an ad fea-turing former Attorney General Eric Holder extolling her leadership. Then viewers saw Rubio again, only this time in a positive light as Conservative Solutions PAC praised the Florida senator and attacked Cruz and Trump.
All that was packed into about a minute and a half.Obama asking Congress for emergency funding to combat Zika
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama is asking 
Congress for more than $1.8 billion in emergency funding 
to fight the Zika virus and the mosquitoes that spread it here and abroad, but said, “There shouldn’t be a panic on this.”
The virus is spreading rapidly through Latin America. 
While most people experience either mild or no symptoms, Zika is suspected of causing a devastating birth defect — babies born with abnormally small heads — and pregnant Americans are urged to avoid travel to affected areas.
U.S. health officials say the money is critical for research 
into the birth defect known as microcephaly. They also want to speed development of a vaccine and better diag-nostic tests and expand mosquito control programs. Some 
of the money would also aid Zika-stricken countries and 
territories.
Most of the money would go to health officials for such 
things as improving education, laboratory testing capacity and establishing rapid response teams.
To date, there has been no transmission of the Zika virus 
by mosquitoes within the U.S., but some American travelers — 50 with laboratory-confirmed cases between December and last week — have returned home with the infection.
One case in Texas is believed to have been transmitted 
through sex and, last week, officials in Brazil, hard-hit by Zika, reported finding the virus in saliva and urine.
That doesn’t necessarily mean Zika can spread through 
those body fluids, however said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease. Fauci said the main focus is on mosquitoes.Florida LGBT anti-discrimination bill 
lives, barely, for another day
TALLAHASSEE — Florida lawmakers considered giving 
anti-discrimination protections to gay and transgender people 
for the first time Monday and ended the discussion in a stale-mate for at least one more day.
The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 5-5 on a bill to in-
clude LGBT people in the law that gives civil rights protections to other groups. The vote normally would have killed the bill, but a procedural move kept it alive. It will be considered by the committee again Tuesday as its democratic sponsor seeks to make changes that will earn the support of at least one more Republican in hopes of moving the legislation forward.
Sunday’s two-hour meeting was bogged down for about 
an hour by questions about how the bill would affect trans-gender people’s use of bathrooms and locker rooms, a point 
raised repeatedly by Republican Sen. Jeff Brandes of St. Pe-
tersburg. At one point, Brandes asked if an “anatomical male” could change in a woman’s locker room. When asked to ex-plain what he meant, Brandes replied, “Someone with male parts.”
Supporters were frustrated that civil rights and economic 
benefits weren’t the predominant point of discussion. Still committee chairman Sen. Miguel Diaz de la Portilla said the fact that he and another Republican voted for the measure 
shows the issue once only championed by Democrats can 
have bipartisan support.
“It’s a sign that attitudes are changing, that understanding 
is changing, that people may be coming around to having a different perspective than perhaps they did 10 years ago or 20 years ago,” said Diaz de la Portilla. “We did hear it today. I think that’s important. I think that’s progress.”
 - THE ASSOCIATED PRESS  - THE ASSOCIATED PRESS  - THE ASSOCIATED PRESSNews around the nation: Associated Press roundupEmma Green / Alligator Staff
COMMUNICATING IN CODE
Standing in front of a screen displaying lines of code, 21-year-old UF computer 
science junior Eric Agredo explains the Java programming language to a classroom of about 10 students. UF’s Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers hosted a Coding 101 workshop in Weil Hall on Monday night.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After a UF Alert on Sunday, Gainesville Po-
lice are still looking for the suspect of an after-
noon robbery.
At about 2 p.m. Sunday, an unknown man 
snatched a backpack from a 43-year-old man 
near Archer Woods apartments, located in the 
3000 block of SW Archer Road, Gainesville Po-lice spokesman Officer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
The backpack held 83 Oxycodone pills and 
other prescriptions, Tobias said.
While police are not necessarily suspicious 
of the bag’s contents, Tobias said people don’t usually carry around a large quantity of pain-
killers.
“We’re wondering if the suspect knew what 
was in that backpack,” he said.
Police described the suspect as a man be-
tween the ages of 20 and 30 years old. He wore a blue track suit, Tobias said.
Authorities are hopeful they will catch the 
man, especially since seven of eight UF Alerts involving robberies resulted in arrests in the 
Fall, he said.
“We’ve been on a good streak with robbery 
arrests so far this year, and we want to keep that up,” Tobias said.
For now, Tobias said officers are canvass-
ing the area around the apartment complex, interviewing residents and knocking on doors.
It is unknown if surveillance footage was 
taken, but they are searching for it, Tobias said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgGainesville Police investigate 
unsolved weekend UF Alert
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Across from a church, a man was 
hit with a hammer.
At about 1:30 a.m. Monday, Justin 
Mark Rensel, 21, struck his roommate 
in the forehead and left him bleeding, 
according to a police report.
It started with a fight.
Rensel said his roommate, Avery 
Miles Bachman, instigated the fight with a death threat, but Bachman dis-agreed, according to the report.
Police eventually sided with Bach-
man, according to the report.
Bachman said Rensel aggressively 
approached him as he sat in their living room, according to the report. Bachman told police he picked up a hammer to defend himself.
As the two wrestled, Rensel took 
the hammer from Bachman and swung it at his forehead, according to the report.
Both men called 911.When police arrived, Rensel said 
he hit Bachman in self-defense, ac-cording to the report.
“That’s the hammer I hit him with, 
but he had it first,” he said, according to the report.
Rensel told police he was behind a 
closed door when he heard Bachman badmouthing him to a friend, accord-ing to the report.Rensel told police he confronted 
Bachman, who then picked up the hammer and threatened to kill him, 
according to the report. 
Police arrested Rensel on a charge 
of aggravated battery and took him 
to the Alachua County Jail, where he was released Monday on a $25,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Man nailed roommate in the forehead with hammer
Renel
CRIME
“W e’re wondering if the suspect knew 
what was in that backpack.”
Officer Ben T obias
Gainesville Police spokesmanTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1293 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use cau-tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-tiser before giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Servers Needed!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
2-10-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14
National NPO
P/T position for social media posting, web 
content management -hours flexible. Email: 
noscarson@tna-support.org    2-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatestGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
Designated drivers are the greatest
16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Bridget Sloan is leading the 
Gators gymnastics team by example.Read the story on pg. 15.  THE GATORS ARE 2-6 IN 
TRUE ROAD GAMES.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After watching his team crum-
ble on Saturday, Kasey Hill didn't 
mince words on Monday.
“You got to take it personally,” 
Hill said of Florida's lackluster 
performance against then-No. 20 
Kentucky. “Everybody has to take it personal.”
While there were plenty of 
open shots for UK’s Jamal Murray and Tyler Ulis over the weekend, there were fewer opportunities for members of Florida’s offense.
The Gators failed to reach the 
double-digit scoring mark until about halfway through the first half, falling into a 19-point deficit as early as six and a half minutes into the game and consistently leaving the Wildcats’ best players unguarded. 
UF (15-8, 6-4 Southeastern 
Conference) will try to improve 
on Saturday's performance when 
they face guard Stefan Moody and Ole Miss tonight at 9 in the O'Connell Center.
But, as porous as UF’s defense 
was on Saturday, there have also been several instances this sea-son when Florida has suffocated its opponent on the road, like 
against Michigan State in its ninth 
game of the season.
It was the first of many tests to 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida ranked No. 16 in latest AP Poll
The Florida women's basketball team moved up to 16th in The Associated 
Press Poll released on Monday. Florida defeated then-No. 12 T exas A&M last Thursday.Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida's Kasey Hill attempts a layup during UF's 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center.
Florida basketball struggling to avoid complacency after wins 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
For a team loaded with veterans, Flori-
da’s women’s basketball team has asked a 
lot of its newcomers.
And so far, they’ve responded by lead-
ing the team to wins. 
That starts with Eleanna Christinaki, 
the only true freshman on the team and a 
native of Athens, Greece.
She is currently second on the team 
in scoring with 10.7 points per game and 
leads the team with 88 assists. For com-parison, the next person on the team’s 
assists leaderboard is Simone Westbrook 
with 57.
“It’s very hard to know, in the open 
court, what Eleanna is gonna do,” coach 
Amanda Butler said. “Is she gonna score? 
Is she gonna go to the rim? Is she gonna hit the three? And obviously she can find the open person.”
Westbrook is also in her first season at 
Florida, transferring from Northwest Flor-ida State College before this season. Origi-nally from Arizona, Westbrook was an NJ-CAA Honorable Mention All-American in 
her last season at Northwest Florida State. 
Although Westbrook been streaky since 
joining the Gators, she’s improved lately.
Westbrook has registered double-digit 
points in the team’s last three games — all wins. But her biggest contribution has 
been on the defensive end, where she ranks second in the Southeastern Con-ference with 2.4 steals per game despite 
averaging at least five fewer minutes per 
game than any other player inside the top 10.Newcomers making splash
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer 
Florida’s softball team enters the 2016 sea-
son with a target on its back. 
After winning a second-straight national 
championship at the Women’s College World Series in Oklahoma City last year, the Gators are just days away from kicking off their cam-paign. 
And this time, visiting teams will get to see 
the visual representation of that target in the form of a new championship billboard, which will be unveiled in right-center field during UF’s home opener against Jacksonville on 
Feb. 17.
But as the season debut creeps closer, 
coach Tim Walton and the team are becoming more focused on the sign that matters most — 
the scoreboard. 
The Gators kick off the season this week-
end with the USF Wilson-DeMarini Tournament. Florida will first face Il-linois State on Friday in 
a game that will serve as 
an appetizer to Saturday’s main course against No. 2 Michigan. 
Walton said he likes 
the idea of starting the season on the road be-cause it forces the players to spend a weekend with each other. It allows for the players to center themselves on their teammates and the 
tournament and mute other distractions. That UF softball preparing for 
season-opening tourney
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 14SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
Walton
“Simone is just such a tough, 
tough matchup,” Butler said. 
“She just seems to make plays.”Together, Christinaki and 
Westbrook have formed a formi-dable starting tandem at guard, despite some growing pains. 
Christinaki is notoriously 
aggressive, which sometimes leads to avoidable turnovers, while Westbrook struggles with consistency.
But regardless of those oc-
casional shortcomings, the two manage to create matchup prob-lems for opposing teams. 
“They’re just playmaking 
guards. They can certainly be scorers, but they do a great job of setting people up,” Butler said. 
When Westbrook transferred 
from NWFSC, she was joined by 
her teammate Tyshara Fleming. 
And while she doesn’t play many minutes, Fleming has turned into the Gators’ main enforcer in the 
paint. 
Fleming’s 40 blocks are good 
for the third-best mark in the SEC, 
despite averaging fewer minutes than each player in the top 13.
“Individually and collectively, 
they’ve really just been a force on our team,” Butler said of West-brook and Fleming. 
“They’re both awesome, they 
work hard and have a tremen-dous amount of pride in being here.”
Florida has five seniors on this 
year’s team, and Butler is usually quick to praise their leadership as a reason for the Gators being third in the SEC standings. 
But she also says that her team 
probably wouldn’t be where it is without the three offseason addi-tions. 
“All of our newcomers are kids 
that work really hard, but they’re also gifted and they just make plays in ways that coaches can’t script,” Butler said.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgsense of team is especially important to Wal-
ton, whose staff has created a culture of friend-
ship and respect among players of all classes.
Newcomer Amanda Lorenz has gotten to 
experience that transition into the team’s cul-ture. Ranked the No. 1 2015 recruit by FloSoft-
ball, Lorenz still gets nervous like any other 
freshman. 
“I think I just need the first game to get out 
of the way,” Lorenz said. “It’s just the anticipa-
tion. I’ve been waiting for this day for such a 
long time. I’m just anxious to start so I can get the jitters out.”
The Gators have also brought in freshman 
pitcher Kelly Barnhill, a highly touted prospect 
who says Walton and his staff helped solidify 
her decision to attend UF. 
“A lot of it had to do with the coaches,” 
Barnhill said. “The coaches here are amaz-
ing, and I look forward to working with them 
through the rest of the season and the next four years.”
Walton sang the praises of his new pitcher 
as well, emphasizing the arsenal of weapons at 
her disposal. “She’s got a lot of tools,” Walton said. 
“There’s the velocity, the movement, the com-
petitiveness, the want of the ball every game, I think she has all those things.
“She’s different than we’ve had before — 
just with the number of strikeouts that she comes in with as a junior olympic athlete.”
But Walton knows he can’t expect to win 
by leaning on a single class to contribute, even 
one as stacked as this year’s five proven se-
niors. 
Walton reminisced of the core’s freshman 
years, how each of them made meaningful con-
tributions from the start. From Taylore Fuller 
getting a huge hit in the gap to help the Gators win late in a game against Alabama in 2013, to Kelsey Stewart, who Walton said hit a triple off the wall in her first at bat, UF has always been 
able to depend on that group of leaders. 
While there are still some unknowns about 
the roster, the first month of the season will act 
as a period for Walton to tweak his lineup and 
get some different looks. 
But even with a level of uncertainty in the 
air, Walton and the Gators are as confident as 
ever in their practice, program and ability to perform in big situations. 
“When you do it once, there can be a lot of 
things that go your way, and you get it done. When you do it twice — and you do it twice in a row — there’s nothing lucky about that.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
Scott Parker / Alligator
Eleanna Christinaki drives into the paint during Florida's 85-79 
win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center.
Fleming has a team-high 40 blocks  
come for a young, still-meshing 
Florida team. In some ways they passed the test, only losing to the then-No. 1 Spartans by six points.
Mike White remembers prais-
ing his players after the loss and lauding their effort, intensity and consistency.
“It feels like five years ago 
now,” White said of the loss to Michigan State in December.
While few expected Florida 
to upset the Wildcats on Satur-
day — a team that hasn’t sur-
rendered a home loss since Feb. 27, 2014 — there were expecta-tions that a Florida team that had won five of their last six games would put up a quality fight, like they did against MSU.
But they didn’t.“Obviously some teams, the 
more you lose, the hungrier you get and the more upset you get,” White said. “We were a team that… had probably gotten a little bit comfortable.”
On Monday, White said the 
Gators have had trouble pushing complacency aside after wins.
The Gators have lost four 
times in conference play, but never back-to-back, and never at home. And in the four games prior to each of UF’s four con-ference losses, the Gators have mostly shot the ball well, com-piling 42.3-percent, 38.1-per-cent, 56.9-percent and 51.0-per-cent clips from the field. In 
the games after the Gators' 
SEC losses, UF has averaged a 46.7-shooting percentage, al-most four points above its sea-son average.
“It’s easier to dig deep for a 
ton of energy and added motiva-tion if you’re coming off a cou-ple of losses,” White said.
Earlier in the season, above-
average shooting nights were hard to come by for Florida, and against elite opponents, a lock-down defensive performance was required to win games.
But, since the start of SEC 
play, the Gators have improved offensively.
UF has shot 36.6 percent 
from three-point range, up from a 27.4-percent clip against non-conference teams.
Florida’s points per game 
have also increased during con-ference play — the Gators have scored 74.5 points against SEC opponents as opposed to 73.2 beforehand.
The Gators’ field-goal per-
centage, free-throw percentage and assists per game have all also improved, which makes their single-game struggles ev-ery so often even more puzzling.
Florida lost on Jan. 6 against 
Tennessee, on Jan. 12 at Texas A&M, on Jan. 26 against Vander-
bilt and on Saturday against 
Kentucky after convincingly winning each matchups’ previ-ous game. Against Ole Miss (15-8, 5-5 SEC) tonight, Florida will again try to bounce back from a disappointing loss.
“We just own up to our mis-
takes,” Hill said, “and take it as 
a challenge.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgUF is shooting 36.6 percent 
from three in SEC playJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Coach Tim Walton walks back to the dugout during Florida's 1-0 win over Florida 
Atlantic on May 17, 2015, at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
SOFTBALL,  from pg 13Walton will use first month of season to tweak Florida's lineup
W-HOOPS,  from pg 13
HOOPS,  from pg 13DESPITE CRAMPING UP 
AGAINST ALABAMA, 
SLOAN WON THE BEAM 
COMPETITION.
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Leadership can be characterized 
in a number of ways. 
Its styles and techniques are as 
diverse as the people who employ 
them. Bold and brash or reticent and 
resilient, most leaders find their niche 
somewhere along that continuum. 
Florida gymnastics senior Bridget 
Sloan is content with balancing the two. 
The youngest member of the U.S. 
Olympic silver-medal gymnastics team in 2008 gymnastics and a three-time NCAA champion, the affable na-
tive of Pittsboro, Indiana, epitomizes 
the notion of a team-first athlete.
She’s vocal — yet not overbearing 
— and is loved by teammates for her joking personality in practice.
She’s also approachable, which 
helps her impart knowledge to some of Florida’s younger gymnasts.
“In the gym, they’re very good 
supporters,” freshman beam special-ist Peyton Ernst said of Sloan and sophomore Alex McMurtry. “They come up and they can help us with anything if we need help. It’s very nice to have them in the gym with us.”
But when the stadium lights flick-er on Friday nights, she lets her game do the talking. 
Only the seventh collegiate gym-
nast to ever win all four events dur-ing her career, Sloan is the third-win-ningest athlete in Florida gymnastics history, tied with Kristen Guise for the distinction. 
At the heart of it, Sloan is a com-
petitor — an athlete who excels in the spotlight and gets a kick out of it to boot. 
And this past Friday, in a los-
ing effort against rival Georgia, she proved her mettle once more. 
After battling an illness through-
out the week, she travelled with the team to retain her place as the Gators’ top all-around competitor. 
Performing fifth in UF’s floor unit, Sloan suffered an upper-thigh cramp on her final tumbling pass, sending 
her stumbling across the mat and 
putting the rest of her meet in jeop-ardy. 
However, as leaders often do, she 
persevered, insisting to coach Jenny Rowland that she remain in the final beam lineup.
“She warmed up beam, the 30-second touch, and I told her (that) she didn’t look the same in her 
eyes,” Rowland said. 
“I said ‘Listen, honey, we don’t 
need (a) savior tonight. You know, 
we’ve got somebody else to replace you.’ She goes ‘No... I can do it. I can do it.’ What are you gonna do other than trust your own athletes?”
That trust paid dividends, as 
Sloan gutted out her 78th career 
event title with a 9.875-point show-
ing as Florida’s anchor. 
From a statistical standpoint, 
Friday’s performance solidified her claim as the nation’s top gymnast. On top of her win on the beam, she missed clinching her fifth-consec-utive all-around title of the year by 0.225 points, ground easily regained 
with the omission of her misstep on 
the floor. 
What the scoresheet didn’t men-
tion, though, is how Sloan refused to bail on her teammates when they needed her most. 
If it wasn’t evident prior, Friday 
night made this much clear: Sloan is the heart and soul of the Florida 
gymnastics program. 
“Bridget really has embraced her 
leadership role this year,” Rowland 
said. 
“I trusted her, I know the team 
trusted her ability, and if she says that she’s able to do it, then I know she’s gonna get up there and do what she’s capable of.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Florida women’s tennis coach Roland Thornqvist has 
stressed the importance of doubles play.
With the No. 3, No. 11, and No. 25-ranked singles 
players in junior Belinda Woolcock, sophomore Brooke Austin and junior Kourtney Keegan, respectively, the No. 
3 Gators earning the doubles point all but assures a win.
In fact, when winning the doubles point, the Gators 
are 110-0 over the past five seasons.
“I think, intuitively, we were better when winning the 
doubles point,” Thornqvist said. “I don’t think you can 
be too excited when you win the doubles point, and you certainly can’t get too down if you lose it. The doubles point is always important, but you can’t overstress it.” 
Four doubles pairings are ranked for Florida — No. 
5 Austin and Keegan, No. 15 sophomore Josie Kuhlman and Woolcock, No. 33 Kuhlman and senior Brianna Mor-gan, and No. 50 Morgan and sophomore Anna Danilina. 
On Sunday, Austin and Keegan defeated Southern Cal-
ifornia’s No. 4 duo of Giuliana Olmos and Gabby Smith. 
The Gators have yet to drop a doubles set this season. And even if Florida doesn’t win the doubles point, 
the rest of the singles players have proven they can hold their own against opponents. 
No. 51 Morgan, No. 56. Kuhlman and No. 110 Dani-
lina are all undefeated in dual-match singles play. No. 73 junior Spencer Liang has a 1-1 record, and sophomore Peggy Porter has only appeared once this year, but went 10-7 last season. 
And with temperatures starting to drop, gaining the 
edge in doubles play could prove important.
After the Gators’ 7-0 sweep of No. 4 USC on Sunday, 
Thornqvist noticed that the cold weather was making it 
more difficult for his players to hit the court’s corners. 
They were forced to hit the middle of the box instead, which can extend rallies and cause players to use their legs more.
In closer matchups, the doubles point would have been crucial in this situation.
“I actually asked our players last week before we 
started playing these two matches if we thought we were ready to use our legs to defend if we have to. And they all seemed to say yes,” Thornqvist said. “And yesterday, I thought, was a great example of that. So as long as we can be powerful and ultimately its 4-all, 5-all and the big ball’s not working, we can dial it down and be more physical if we have to, extend rallies if we have to.
“We’ll be fine in any kinds of weather, which is the 
Florida way, right?”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org
Doubles point proving to be major factor in Florida’s success
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Josie Kuhlman prepares to hit the ball with a  forehand during Florida’s win over USF on Jan. 27. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan sticks her landing after her dismount from the balance beam during Florida’s win over 
Alabama on Jan. 28.
Senior Sloan leading Gators gymnastics by exampleBy Alfredo Morales
Sports writer
Following UF’s decisive ﬁ  rst-place vic-
tory at the Florida Challenge last week, 
the Gators have their eyes set on a larger 
prize.  
However, before the No. 12 Florida wom-
en’s golf team can claim its second victory 
of the Spring season, it must rise above 15 
other teams at this year’s Northrop Grum-
man Regional Challenge in Palos Verdes, California.
It has not been an easy contest for the 
Gators thus far, as they teed off against 15 
other teams including No. 1 Southern Cali-
fornia, No. 2 Duke, No. 6 UCLA and No. 9 Oklahoma State. 
Florida ended Round 2 of the tourna-
ment in third place with a score of 10 over par. After junior Kelly Grassel and fresh-man Sam Wagner led the Gators’ charge in Sunday’s ﬁ  rst round, both saw a slip in play, falling 20 spots and nine spots, re-spectively. 
“I’m proud of this team today and how 
they fought all the way to the end,” UF as-sistant coach Janice Olivencia said in a re-
lease. 
“We let a couple slip by at the begin-
ning, but we stayed focused and were de-
termined to ﬁ  nish strong.”
Grassel, ﬁ  nding herself in 26th place at 
the end of Monday’s round, is now tied with 
sophomore Taylor Tomlinson, who crawled up 16 spots by the second round’s end. 
But Tomlinson was not the only one 
who improved in the second round. The seasoned pair of Maria Torres and Karolina Vlckova are now leading the Gators going into the third-round battle.
 Torres jumped an impressive 21 spots, 
improving from 4 over par to even in the two rounds. Meanwhile, Vlckova held steadfast, scoring a consistent 1 over par in both rounds — enough to land her in the 
top 10.
Florida has struggled at this particular competition in recent years. Two years ago, 
Florida went home with a disappointing 14th-place ﬁ  nish out of 16 teams. 
Torres and Vlckova placed 38th and 
83rd, respectively. 
While last year’s lineup saw improve-
ment — landing 10th out of 16 — it was not 
enough to crack the top half of the leader-
board. Torres once again placed 38th while Vlckova improved to 44th place.
The duo is now back at the Palos Verdes 
Golf Club along with Grassel, Tomlinson 
and Wagner. 
UF will need a resurgence from both the 
veterans and the newcomers to overcome 
No. 11 Alabama and No. 14 Washington, 
who are tied for ﬁ  rst and leading by a score 
of 5 over par. 
Round 3 begins today at 11:30 a.m. “We are excited about tomorrow since 
we’re still in it,” Olivencia said.
 “Our plan is to be ready for the chal-
lenge and play the way we know how to 
play.”
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Maria T orres hits a shot during the 2015 
SunTrust Gator Invitational.
Florida women’s golf sits in third place
UF begins inal round of tourney today