We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 58 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
Quarterback Austin Appleby to 
start for Gators
Feleipe Franks will be his backup, pg. 20
Fall festival to debut downtown
There will be 56 vendors, pg. 8
Best local beers for fall
See our picks, pg. 10Must-dos for the last home game
Read our checklist for seniors, pg. 10
Staff Report
UF professor Sean Trainor walked into his 
classroom Wednesday morning dressed in 
black.
He tore up his original plans for his Ameri-
can History to 1877 class and decided instead 
to make a slideshow of Martin Luther King 
Jr. quotes and photos of inﬂ  uential African-Americans including Frederick Douglass and 
Harriet Tubman.
After about 10 minutes, he told his stu-
dents they could leave.
When no one stood up, Trainor asked stu-
dents for their thoughts on the presidential 
election and the fact that Donald Trump will be the next U.S. president. A tense discussion among Trump supporters and Hillary Clinton supporters ensued.
“I really just don’t know how I feel about 
it,” Trainor said afterward.
While some students, faculty members and residents woke up excited about the pros-pect of a President Trump, others — including members of the Muslim and LGBTQ+ com-munities — felt disappointed or angry.
Debbie Weiss, a mental health counselor 
at the UF Counseling & Wellness Center, said the center received a handful of calls and some in-person visits on Election Day and the morning after from concerned students.
“I think it’s present for a lot of people,” 
she said. “It’s even affecting the staff. People are scared.”
Ernesto Escoto, the director of the center, 
said he spoke with students throughout the day who said they were shocked and griev-ing, unable to understand how Trump was elected.
“That’s a reﬂ  ection also of how distant we 
are from each other,” he said.
Ronnie Sartain woke up Wednesday morn-
ing and started wiping the purple swastika off 
of his garage door.The symbols, spray-painted on his garage, 
walkway and Trump-Pence lawn signs, ap-peared about two weeks ago. Though Sartain 
said he would leave his garage vandalized un-til after Trump became president — as a way to show passersby just how polarizing the election became — he didn’t expect Trump would win the election.
Elsewhere, on the 34th Street Wall, motor-
ists could see a mural of Trump painted in the likeness of Adolf Hitler, with an infamous 
Nazi slogan that translated to “One People, 
One Nation, One Leader.”
Admitting he is not sure what Trump will 
actually do as commander in chief, Sartain said he hopes Trump’s presidency brings about change in the country, with congressio-nal term limits and an affordable health care system that doesn’t hurt doctors.
“The question now is, ‘What is Trump go-
ing to do?’” he said. “I don’t see a platform. I see an opportunity for change.”
With Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who 
as Indiana’s Governor once proposed fund- Divisions clear in the aftermath of Election Day 
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
While the nation’s fate hung in 
the balance Tuesday night, Sara 
Riehm went soundly to sleep, 
knowing all would be ﬁ  ne in the 
morning.
“No matter what happens, I’m 
still gonna wake up to Beatrice,” 
the 20-year-old UF dietetics junior 
said, smiling down at her pit bull, 
whom she adopted in May.
Alachua County Animal Ser-
vices hopes Riehm won’t be the only one ﬁ  nding comfort in her adopted pet this week, following the nail-biting ﬁ  nale to the presi-
dential election.
Until Saturday, the shelter at 
3400 NE 53rd Ave. is offering free 
dog and cat adoptions through its 
“The Race for the Right House” 
promotion. Jane Grantman, the shelter’s supervisor, said ACAS 
will waive the $25 adoption fee 
for “Demo-cats” and the $30 fee for “Re-pup-licans.”
“Animals are very comforting 
when you’re sad,” she said.
Although just four animals 
have been adopted during the promotion, which started Tues-day, Grantman said she hopes 
more of the 164 cats and 128 dogs 
ﬁ  nd permanent homes by the week’s end.
The at-capacity shelter orga-
nized the promotion to reduce its 
euthanasia rates and make space 
for more stray and surrendered animals, she said. Its animals are vaccinated, microchipped and 
spayed or neutered.
“There’s no losing here,” 
Grantman said.
After dealing with depression 
and anxiety last spring, Riehm 
made the decision to adopt Bea-trice. For those struggling to ac-cept an impending Donald Trump 
presidency, she said bringing in a 
furry friend could help in a simi-lar way.
“She’s just a really calming 
presence,” she said. “I always have a friend.” Local s helter 
waives fees post-election
SEE REACTIONS,  PAGE 4
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
A WALL OF FREEDOM
Daniel Weldon, a 20-year-old UF political science sophomore and the president of Young Americans for Freedom, stands in front of a 
commemorative wall for the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday afternoon. Weldon said the event celebrated the triumph of freedom from socialism. Read the story, page 4.
Trump presidency angers, excites someSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  77° LOW  47°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood 
Drive hosted by LifeSouth 
Community Blood Centers 
will be held until Nov. 18. All blood donors will earn points for their chapter and spirit 
points toward Dance Marathon 
2017. Donors also will receive 
a free T-shirt and will help 
save a life. Bloodmobiles will 
be located at the Newberry Road Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner 
Dining Center. For more infor-
mation, email lgbialeck@life-south.org or call 352-359-0988.
Interfaith Bridge Builders: 
making newcomers neigh-bors Welcoming Gainesville will host a potluck dinner and program featuring Gainesville 
groups devoted to under-
standing people of other faiths today at 7 p.m. at Parkview Baptist Church, lo-cated at 3403 NW 13th St. 
Groups presenting include the 
Muslim-Christian Dialogue at Emmanuel Mennonite Church, the Daughters of Abraham, the 
Gainesville Interfaith Forum, 
the Silk Road Club, Habitat for Humanity Interfaith Build, Trinity United Methodist Church, UF Hillel and the 
International Learning Center 
at Parkview Baptist Church. Following these presentations, there will be an open discus-
sion on the obstacles and pos-
sibilities facing Gainesville res-idents who are trying to build 
bridges among local groups 
of different faiths. UF student leaders will report on inter-faith solidarity on campus, and Welcoming Gainesville 
will introduce programs aimed 
at responding to Islamophobia, anti-Semitism and racism.
Grace Marketplace Open 
House: ‘A Day of GRACE’Come hungry and enjoy a ca-tered lunch while listening to live music by The Jazz Bandits 
and Uptown Swing, or take a 
tour of Grace Marketplace’s local homeless shelter. Come prepared to do some yoga 
and/or Zumba, receive a 
chair massage or participate in a pickup basketball game. Find out about the plan for a new social services center for low-income-community resi-
dents, complete with a con-
templative garden. Also find out about volunteer opportu-nities at their state-of-the-art shelter. The event is Saturday 
from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. at 
Grace Marketplace — just one block east of the intersection at Waldo Road and Northeast 
39th Avenue. Contact Randi 
Cameon at rcameon@cox.net or 352-359-2603 for more info.
The Magic of Eugene Mullins: 
Crazy EscapesOn Monday and Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the the Hippodrome State Theatre, Eugene Mullins 
will follow in the footsteps 
of his childhood hero, Harry Houdini. Mullins is one of the top escape artists in the coun-try. He has captivated audienc-
es with mind-blowing escapes 
and breath-taking magic. No lock can hold, no handcuffs can keep, no audience can 
resist Eugene Mullins as he 
leaves you breathless with his death-defying escapes and mind-blowing magic.
‘Global Engagement Gator 
Style: My Fabulous Fulbright and Strategies for Successful Intercultural 
Communication’
On Tuesday from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Music Building, Room 101, come to the last Fulbright event of this year 
in celebration of International 
Education Week. For his six month Fulbright Core Faculty Award, Ed Kellerman, a 
master lecturer in the Dial 
Center for Written and Oral Communications, taught inter-cultural communication and collected data at the Universiti 
Tenaga Nasional in Malaysia. 
This multimedia presentation will feature short, humorous videos and stunning photog-
raphy, illustrating strategies to 
overcome intercultural barriers that involve appreciating cul-tural symbols, being involved with local families, using the 
Malay language effectively. To 
register, please visit goo.gl/h9gtyl. For more information, email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu.Survivors of Suicide 
Candlelight VigilThe 4th Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil 
will be held Nov. 19 at the 
Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 
p.m. with a ceremony begin-
ning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the com-munity, and refreshments will 
be provided. The vigil will 
be sponsored by the Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, 
please contact Donna Eckel at 
raggedyds@aol.com.
Heart Gators and Katie Caples 
Foundation Work to Save 
Lives 
The Katie Caples Foundation 
is partnering with UF’s Big 
Heart Gators for an organ, tis-sue and eye donor registration 
drive Monday through Nov. 
18 on campus. In addition to registering new organ donors, the student volunteers will answer questions about organ 
donation with the intention of 
informing, educating and dis-pelling the myths associated with donation and transplanta-
tion. The Big Heart Gators are 
hoping to register 500 new or-gan donors. For more informa-tion, find the Big Heart Gators on Facebook at facebook.com/
BigHeartGators or the Katie 
Caples Foundation at katieca-ples.org. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject 
line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 58
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students punched and tore down a barrier of 
drywall to honor the anniversary of the fall of the 
Berlin Wall. 
UF’s Young Americans for Freedom, a student 
organization focused on freedom and capitalism, 
created a wall to represent the Berlin Wall on the 
Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday morning. The group invited students to spray-paint the wall in blue and red paint before tearing it down at 1 p.m.
Daniel Weldon, the president of YAF, said the 
group members wanted to remind people that so-cialism causes fear.
“We’re trying to help spread the message that 
freedom is better than socialism,” the 20-year-old UF political science sophomore said.
Some students walking by the wall stopped and 
asked Weldon if it was a representation of “Trump’s 
wall.” But he said their organization isn’t politically 
afﬁ  liated, and it was just for Berlin. 
“We celebrate what’s called Freedom Week this 
week,” he said. “Students really should know that freedom is the way to go.”
Weldon said because their chapter is new, it was 
the ﬁ  rst time the group celebrated the anniversary of the Berlin Wall coming down. They plan to do it in the future, he said.
April Garcia, a 19-year-old UF food and resource 
economics sophomore, said she took part in the event because the wall coming down in 1989 repre-sented democracy. It was also a fun way to take out frustration, she said.
“It’s pretty cool exercise to build the wall and 
write pro-freedom stuff all over it,” she said. “Tear-ing down the wall basically commemorated free-dom.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  Students honor 
fall of Berlin Wall
ing homosexual-conversion therapy, 
members of the LGBTQ+ community have reason to worry, but they must be proactive, said Terry Fleming, the presi-dent of the Florida LGBTA Democratic 
Caucus.
A Gainesville resident, Fleming said 
Trump’s selection of a “homophobe” 
is very telling of how he views the na-
tion’s LGBTQ+ population. He said the 
caucus would continue vying for pro-
LGBTQ+ candidates locally and nation-
ally.
“We encourage members of the com-
munity to get involved, to make a dif-ference, to make sure our rights contin-ue to be represented,” he said.
For Laura Goodhue, the vice presi-
dent of public policy for Planned Par-enthood of South, East and North Flori-
da, the prospect of Trump defunding its 
system of women’s health clinics — in-cluding one in Gainesville — is nothing new.
“Planned Parenthood has been (in 
the U.S.) for 100 years, and one thing is clear: We will never back down,” she wrote in a statement issued Wednesday.
Maryam Akinyode wore her hijab 
proudly Wednesday, despite other Mus-lim women deciding not to wear them after learning of Trump’s victory.
Akinyode, the vice president of ex-
ternal affairs for Islam on Campus, said she was angry and sad that Trump, who once argued for a ban on Muslim immi-gration, would soon become her presi-dent. She said she was speaking on be-
half of herself, not the organization.
“As minorities, we work so hard 
to be accepted by this society,” the 
21-year-old UF international studies and political science senior said. “But there’s still such a large amount of ha-tred toward us.”
Rod Gonzalez, the vice president of 
the Gainesville Tea Party, said he voted for Trump in part because of his immi-gration policy.
Gonzalez, who emigrated from Ven-
ezuela and has been a U.S. citizen for 20 years, said the U.S. can’t afford the number of immigrants presently coming into the country.
While he said his beliefs don’t en-
tirely align with the Democratic Party or 
the Republican Party, Gonzalez hopes 
Trump will support small-business owners by cutting the number of regu-lations and lowering taxes.
“We saw Mr. Trump as really the 
only alternative to change,” he said. “Will we regret it down the road? Who knows.” REACTIONS,  from pg. 1‘Will we regret it down the road? Who knows.’
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
John Davis, 67, watches the news on Wednesday after President-elect Donald 
Trump won the election. Davis watched the results with his friends, switching from Fox News and CNN to CBS and online results. “I was happy to see him win, ” he said. “He saved the country. ” Although Davis wore a shirt reading “Hillary for Prison 2016, ” he said he doesn’t want that, and he is just glad the elections are ﬁ  nished. “Trump is a good guy, ” David added. “We will be alright ... he will follow the steps of Reagan; he never went to war. ”
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR  5
A FIVE-MONTH-OLD KITTEN 
WAS NEUTERED SUNDAY.
By Lauren Ayers 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Five-month-old Orange Crush, an orange-
and-white kitten who also goes by Crushy, 
marked a milestone for Operation Catnip.
On Sunday, the UF’s College of Vet-
erinary Medicine’s Operation Catnip com-
pleted its 50,000th surgery through its spay 
and neuter program at the Alachua County Humane Society, located at 4205 NW Sixth St. The program offers free services, in-cluding vaccinations and medicine for cats. 
Pattie Smith, a Hawthorne, Florida, 
resident, said she brought the kitten to the clinic because she didn’t feel she could take care of it anymore.
As soon as Smith and her father checked 
in the four cats they brought in, they found out Crushy would be the 50,000th cat. She said it was funny how much atten-tion Crushy got, adding that they kept the balloons he was given when he went into surgery.
“I told the other cats it could have hap-
pened to any of them,” Smith said. “He was just the lucky one.”
The program, which began in 1998, 
now helps  about 2,000 cats each year, said Audrey Garrison, the executive director of Operation Catnip. The program hosts free spay and neuter surgeries once a month in order to provide health care for stray cats.
“The cats go through by station,” Gar-
rison said. “It’s kind of like an assembly line.”  UF vet program Operation 
Catnip marks 50,000 surgeries
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
Almost as soon as he was initiated into 
UF’s chapter of Pi Delta Psi Fraternity, Chris-
topher Abeleda had a solemn announcement for his fraternity brothers: He was leaving.
Last Spring, the 22-year-old UF psychol-
ogy senior received chemotherapy treatments for his Ph-positive acute lymphoblastic leuke-mia. His bone marrow was making faulty or too many blood cells, he said.
“It was tough, but for me, it wasn’t the 
end of the world,” he said.
A semester later, on Wednesday night, 
Abeleda joined a crowd of about 300 people as they slowly walked through UF’s campus to honor those who have died from cancer and to raise money for research.The event, Light the Night, was hosted by 
Pi Delta Psi and the American Medical Stu-dent Association, raising at least $30,000 for 
the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society.
As members of the group held colored lan-
terns symbolizing death, remission and sup-
port, 21-year-old Gabriel Abreu read aloud the names of 10 cancer patients who died. The names were selected by attendees.
Abreu, the lead director for Light the 
Night, said he was inspired to direct the walk by Abeleda, his fraternity brother. The night 
he found out his friend would be leaving for 
the semester, he said the room was silent, and his brothers lined up to hug Abeleda.
“I trusted so much in his strength and re-
silience that I wasn’t really worried. It wasn’t a goodbye,” the UF mechanical engineering senior said. “It was more like a see you later.” UF hosts event to raise 
money for cancer research The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORGuest Column
A note to Donald Trump from a Clinton supporter
Congratulations.
It has been a long fought race for 
the White House, with a campaign 
ending on much more than a fever 
pitch. In 71 days, you will assume 
office, after what I can only imagine will be a “tremendous” and “the best” inauguration 
proceeding. You’ve won. 
I’m reminded of a quote from the period 
of the French Revolution: “Ils dovient envis-
lager qu’une grande responsibilité est la suite inseparable d’un grand pouvoir.” “(One) must consider 
that great responsibility follows inseparably from great 
power.” It may be a philosophical thought of an enlight-ened population or a cheesy quote that ties together the persona of Spider-Man, but nonetheless, it is a quote 
necessary for anyone in power to remember. In accept-
ing victory last night, you pledged to be a president for all of the people. You stated that this notion was “so important” to you. As an American citizen, I am hold-ing your actions to your words from this day until day 
1,534 — and maybe until day 3,068.
Last night, drunk off confusion and drinks laced with 
the bitterness of defeat, I had a profound thought about 
my own future that hadn’t made any real sense until this 
morning. It started with a few questions: Why should 
I continue to better myself by performing actions like studying for the LSAT? Why should I go to law school? Why should I get up and slave away to join a profession that will undoubtedly become doused with vitriol and 
frivolity because of the results of this election?
Last night, in my disillusioned state, I thought about 
how I had hoped and dreamed of a second Clinton pres-
idency, one in which the wrongs of the past would be 
righted and justice granted to those who needed it most. 
As I woke up this morning, I asked myself these ques-tions again, and this time, my answer to all of them were clear and concise: I will con-tinue. I will continue to fight for what I be-
lieve is right. I will continue to be motivated, 
maybe even more so, to see justice done in my America. I will not bow, and I will not break. Just as my country has for 240 years, 
I will weather this storm.
While this letter may seem like an un-
abashed acceptance of your statements in 
the past 19 months, rest assured, it is not. I 
do not, nor will I ever, endorse your policies, nor your 
way of thinking. The fabric of what makes this country 
great relies on this sentiment: the grand idea that I can unequivocally state I disagree with you, Mr. President-elect, and not be afraid of any consequences. 
So, Mr. President-elect, whether you choose to be 
gasoline in the fire or the pleasant splash of cold wa-ter after a long night of hard drinking, I hope you will find it in yourself to let your vindictiveness be lost in the minutiae of the office and help comfort this nation 
through good, honest works. Starting today, the Ameri-
can people will have to live with the choices we made last night. Starting today, I choose not only to live, but to fight for what I believe in and to be on the right side of history. Good luck, Mr. President-elect, and I do 
mean that sincerely.
Isaac Netzer is a UF political science senior.Don’t abandon  
our future
In matters of style, swim with the current; in matters of 
principle, stand like a rock.” – Thomas Jefferson
The morning Donald Trump officially became President-
elect Trump, the sky, similar to how we felt, was gloomy. Gray clouds hovered above us, literally and metaphorically. 
Despite this, dogs panted happily as they were walked, children giggled innocently as they jumped up and down in a bounce-house in front of the stadium and the line at the Chipotle on University Avenue was still unreasonably long. While every-thing looked fine on the surface, only the naïve could ignore that the tension in the atmosphere Tuesday was so thick, it could be cut with a knife.
Dear reader, we’re here to tell you today there is, in fact, a 
light at the end of this tunnel. We will get through this. It will not be easy. We remember how much of an uphill battle the last eight years have been. The next four, possibly eight, will be even tougher. We will need all hands on deck to make sure the progress we’ve made under President Barack Obama is not undone.
Why will it be even tougher? “To the victor belongs the 
spoils,” the adage goes. When President-elect Trump is inaugu-rated in January, he will take office with the support of a U.S. House of Representatives and a U.S. Senate that are both domi-nated by Republicans. Moreover, Trump will have the authority to nominate a new Supreme Court justice, who will likely be confirmed, which will leave the court leaning right with five conservative justices and four liberal justices. That being said, the entirety of our government will be occupied by the totally unorganized Republican Party that Trump left in his wake. Re-publicans are going to have a lot of authority.
The means by which they seized this authority is question-
able, but it is legal. The fact of the matter is the majority of America has spoken, and they wanted Hillary Clinton to be our new POTUS. But in the end, Trump received more electoral votes, and he will get the job. While we don’t have to be happy about it, and we can do everything in our God- and constitution-ally given rights to stop the policies we don’t agree with, we ought to respect his presidency.
We understand why you’re afraid and why you’re angry. But 
this isn’t the first time a man of extremely questionable experi-ence will serve in the Oval Office. This isn’t the first time a man with a vile temperament will sit behind that desk. While most of us disagree with him on many facets of life, political or not, we are now forced to stand behind him and hope his decisions lead us to a safer, more prosperous and morally sound future.
So let’s forgive those of us who knew not what they’ve done. 
We all go into that voting booth with our own knowledge, our own experiences and our own reasons. Few people go into that booth and vote ironically. So remember, dear reader, when they go low, we go high. Instead of blaming, shaming and pointing fingers, let’s forgive those of us who, in good faith, misplaced our trust. We all want the same thing: a better tomorrow. Let’s stay true to our personal principles and remain faithful to the American principle of compromise.  
Don’t move to Canada. Don’t move to Europe. Don’t move 
to Australia, to Israel or to wherever you were planning to go. Right now, you must plant your feet in this plentiful American soil, and stand like the rock our Founding Fathers would have wanted you to.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Isaac Netzer
Speaking Out
“As an American citizen, I am 
holding your actions to your words 
from this day until day 1,534 — and 
maybe until day 3,068.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
When it comes to birthdays, people 
usually fall into one of two cat-egories: apathetic and not really considering it to be a big deal, or incredibly enthusiastic to the point 
of being obnoxious. For some reason, even though I am often a person who shies away from the spotlight and prefers the corner of a room to the center of the party, I’ve always fallen in the latter category. I never had a big Sweet 16 or a car waiting in the driveway for me, but from ﬁ  rst grade to my senior year of high school, I always had some sort of birth-day party and really put my heart into making 
it a fun time — not just for myself, but for my 
friends.
That changed when I came to college. I 
couldn’t exactly throw a party in my tiny dorm room when I turned 18 my freshman year, nor did I have enough friends to have anything more than a really small get-together. I still got really excited for my birthday, though — even though I knew it wouldn’t come with a big 
celebration. But when I saw how my friends 
reacted to their own birthdays, I started feeling ashamed for always making a big deal about mine, something that was starting to seem self-centered and childish.
I couldn’t pinpoint why I 
make a big deal out of my birth-day. I am not a showy person. It’s not that I crave gifts (they don’t hurt, of course) or big par-ties. There was a time I thought it might be because of the year my seventh-grade friends forgot, but now I realize that story was an excuse. I started at-tributing the excitement of my birthday to my 
own usually childish behavior and my enthu-
siasm for other big events. After all, I get excit-ed for holidays and my friends’ birthdays, too. Every time I get a new calendar or planner, I make sure to mark down my close friends’ birthdays even though I know them off the top of my head.
I was discussing this the other day, just 
off-handedly because the subject of birthdays 
came up. My birthday was especially impor-
tant to me, I realized, because it usually fell on the week of Thanksgiving. In my family, Thanksgiving is a big deal. We don’t have a lot of family in the country, but we do have very close family friends 
and high-school and college 
friends of my parents, and those friends are basically like extend-ed family. We all used to live in the same state, but after 2000, we dispersed across the country. 
On Thanksgiving, though, everyone made 
that long trek to Florida. This is especially notable because everyone from my parents’ 
generation was an immigrant and was just in-
credibly passionate about celebrating this very American holiday. We’d all come together, and because my birthday would usually be a few days later, my mom would make sure to set aside a pumpkin pie. Then, we would have a little birthday celebration for me.
When I think about my birthday, I think 
about that coming together and experiencing 
that love and family feeling we don’t get on 
any other holiday. Since coming to college, that’s kind of been lost. It’s a mix of things: the fact that I’m older, so birthdays aren’t con-sidered a big deal; the fact that the whole pro-cess of coming home for Thanksgiving is time-consuming and stressful; and the fact that our 
family friends now have little children who 
take up more of the attention and the space. 
I shouldn’t be upset — after all, the reason 
we gather in the ﬁ  rst place is Thanksgiving, not my birthday — but part of me feels a little wistful and nostalgic for those times. I can’t help but feel that same excitement for my birthday to come around. 
But I know why birthdays are such a big 
deal to me — not just mine, but all my friends’ as well: Because there’s this intrinsic feeling of love and belonging and togetherness that my birthday had always held for me, a deep-set feeling that only came once a year. In my mind, everyone’s birthdays should make them feel as loved and as cared for as my childhood birthdays did.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science major. Her columns appear on Thursdays.
Enjoying birthdays: a reﬂ  ection on getting older but not losing enthusiasmColumn
Petrana Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
How to spend your last Gator gameday
A must-do list for seniors,  pg. 10THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Over Easy to host festival downtown
It’s a music and art experience,, pg. 9By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Gainesville will host its ﬁ  rst annual Fall Festival 
this Saturday. 
The festival will be held in the newly renovated Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m., and it will feature local craft businesses and direct sellers from the community, said Virginia Lynn-Brinson, the coordinator of the event. 
“I wanted to do some events that would bring peo-
ple to the downtown area in the evenings,” she said.
Although there are similar festivals going on in 
Florida during this time of year in Melrose, Newberry and Alachua, Lynn-Brinson said she thought it was time Gainesville had one of its own.
She said many home-based businesses in the com-
munity don’t get much exposure at local events. While Gainesville does have local arts and crafts shows dur-ing this time of the year, Lynn-Brinson said some of the local businesses she promotes are not allowed to participate in these events because their products are not handmade. 
She said she started her event planning business, 
Virginia Lynn Enterprises, to promote those small businesses.
One of these small-business owners is Joy Hamp-
son, a team leader with the direct-sales company Pam-pered Chef. She will celebrate her three-year anniver-sary with the company in two weeks. 
Working for a direct-sales company is different 
from brick-and-mortar stores, Hampson said. By work-ing from home, she said she can pick her kids up from school and go to the park with them while still earning an income for her family.“I can kind of work my business around my life 
and not the other way around, which is really nice,” 
she said. 
She said her ultimate goal is meeting people at the 
festival this weekend, because everything is word-of-
mouth-centered for direct sellers. Having an event to network, pass out business cards and meet people is a 
great opportunity for any business, she said.
Lynn-Brinson is a small business owner, too. She 
runs her event-planning company, and she also pro-
motes her own invention: a reusable, multipurpose pouch that’s the size of a sandwich bag and has an 
extra pocket on the front. 
She said she invented it when her daughters were 
younger, because she would always have to hide their 
lunch money when they went to school. 
“There are products like it on the market, they just 
don’t have a pocket,” she said.
The Fall Festival will feature live music and food 
vendors. Of the 56 vendors at the festival, some will be businesses that make their own jewelry, soap and 
clothing, along with the direct sellers. Lynn-Brinson 
said a few nonproﬁ  t companies will also be at the 
event. She said the event will be kid-friendly, featuring 
a children’s corner with face painting, vendors selling 
books, a craft table and a cakewalk. 
Being a family person, Lynn-Brinson said she want-
ed the event to be something parents could take their children to on a Saturday night. Even more, she said 
she wants to help those parents like Hampson who are 
running small businesses and running after children at 
the same time.
“I’m a mom,” she said. “I know how important it 
was when my kids were younger to be able to provide 
a living for them.”  Fall Festival to debut in downtown Gainesville
LOCAL
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Thanks to the 1999 “Rave 
Law” put into effect by the city of 
Gainesville, every bar in town must 
close its doors at 2 a.m. It’s a strange 
phenomenon, being anywhere in town that late. Closing time rolls around, and streets in Midtown and downtown are awash with drunken students looking for something to 
treat their munchies. As a Gainesville 
newcomer, I’ve experienced the quandary of trying to ﬁ  nd some-where to eat this late at night (or early in the morning) several times. After making my rounds around our little city for a few months, I have compiled a brief list of the best res-taurants that will serve you qual-
ity food later than anywhere else in 
Gainesville. 
Boca FiestaFor a place that hosts high-energy punk rock shows in its backyard, Boca Fiesta is a surprisingly upscale Southwestern restaurant once you step inside. There is no greasy coun-ter where you place your order. The waiters don’t wear T-shirts, and the restaurant’s lighting is dim, but in a fancy way.
Boca Fiesta is open until 2 a.m. 
on every night except for Sundays, when the restaurant closes at 11 p.m. Boca boasts a diverse menu, offering original options like alligator burritos, fried mac-and-cheese balls and a series of specials called “weird meat of the month.” Last I checked it was fried rattlesnake. While Boca’s varied selection of meats is entic-
ing, the menu also includes plenty 
of vegetarian and vegan options. Boca even has a dairy-free version of those fried mac-and-cheese balls.
Boca Fiesta is not perfect, though. 
With that fancy atmosphere comes fancy prices. Burritos cost $8 and come with no sides, and service is not the fastest. Last time I was at Boca, I had a server wait 15 minutes before getting to me, presumably be-cause I sat down at 9:45 p.m., and the restaurant stop giving out free chips and salsa at 10 p.m. 
Gator BakedI guess you could call Gator Baked 
“American food” because almost ev-erything on the menu is fried. Unlike Boca Fiesta, Gator Baked makes you order your food at a greasy counter, the employees are all wearing T-shirts and the decor is, well, perplex-ing. There is one wall decorated with a collage of random images, includ-ing movie stars like Jack Nicholson.
Still, this is the only place down-
town that will serve you a hot, freshly made doughnut after midnight. The shop also offers hard-to-ﬁ  nd fried sides like tater tots and onion rings. Last time I was here, I paid $3.50 for a piping hot maple-bacon doughnut and two super greasy McDonalds-style hash browns.  Gator Baked is open until 3 a.m. every night and is located downtown in a small brick building next to Cowboys Saloon.    
Flaco’s Cuban BakeryUnfortunately for Midtown dwell-
ers, the past two restaurants men-tioned are located downtown. But 
never fear! Flaco’s Cuban Bakery 
has both a Midtown location and a downtown location. Though adver-tised as a Cuban bakery, Flaco’s also offers cheap and delicious burritos. For $6 you can buy a warm and cheesy pressed tortilla packed tight with rice, beans, meat, salsa and sour cream.
Flaco’s also offers tempeh, 
plantains, lentils and a signature “sunshine” veggie mix for vegetar-ians. Besides the Southwestern fare, Flaco’s offers a variety of Cuban sandwiches, arepas, rice bowls and Cuban pastries. I recommend trying something with pork in it if you’re a meat eater and the “sunshine” if you’re not. Flaco’s also has cheap Cuban coffee, which is super sugary and caffeinated.
The restaurant’s bare interior 
makes it obvious that Flaco’s em-phasis is on the food, not on the atmosphere. Still, the artwork dis-
played inside of both locations has a 
lot of character. 
Of course, there are a few cave-
ats to keep in mind with Flaco’s. Though the bakery is open until 2:30 a.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays, Flaco’s isn’t open at all on Sundays or Mondays.  Also, the downtown location of Flaco’s offers burritos 
at a separate part of the restaurant, 
behind the main dining room. This extension, or rather, “burrito bar,” is cash only. So if you’re trying to eat one of Flaco’s famous $6 burri-tos downtown, make sure you don’t spend all of your cash on cover.
Drunken munchies: a guide to local late-night eating 
FOODTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
Over Easy Fest, a music and art 
experience, will return to down-
town Gainesville on Friday night.
Les Voss cofounded Over Easy 
Creative, an event management company, more than two years ago. His mission was to provide a space for Gainesville’s under-ground electronic music acts and 
fans to come together.
“What we’re trying to do is cre-
ate more organic events,” he said. 
“Not just putting an artist or a DJ 
or a band in a room, but really to 
create a whole atmosphere.”
Among the year-round events 
Over Easy Creative hosts, Voss 
said Over Easy Fest is one of its 
largest productions. He said the 
festival brings together dozens of 
electronic music acts, elaborate lighting, sound design and visual art pieces for a unique concert ex-
perience.
“I don’t think there’s an event 
like this in Gainesville,” Voss said.
Friday night’s festival will be 
hosted at Visionary CrossFit, lo-cated at 716 N. Main St. The venue 
will offer an intimate environment, 
with black-light installations and art murals along with other cre-ative works.
“Even though it’s a gym, the 
owners are really talented artists,” Voss said. “Everything you see, ev-erywhere you look is art.”
Visionary CrossFit will house 
two stages for musical performanc-es and a zen garden for guests to enjoy.
This semester, Golf Clap, a duo 
from Detroit, will headline the fes-tival. Blac Bear, a local artist, will also make an appearance. 
Kristian Legcevic, as the artist is 
known offstage, is part of the Over Easy Creative crew, having worked with the team since last year as a 
DJ and production member.
“I’m a UF student, and my ex-
tracurricular is to be involved with 
Over Easy Creative,” said the elec-
trical engineering senior.
Other artists scheduled to per-
form include Camelia, True Vine, 
Silo, Go4th and Danny Sonn.
Voss said about 400 people at-
tended the last Over Easy Fest. He 
said he advises those who plan to 
come to order tickets in advance or arrive early as space is limited, and capacity is expected to be met 
quickly.
“I don’t think any event can 
compare to what we do,” Legcevic 
said. “It’s a very unique idea. Ev-eryone in Gainesville should come 
out, and see what we have to of-
fer.”
Doors for Over Easy Fest will 
open at 6 p.m. Tickets can be pur-
chased online for $15 at eventbrite.com or at the door, but quantities are limited.Over Easy Fest returns to downtown with music, art
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Over Easy Fest will take place at Visionary CrossFit on Friday, with doors opening at 6 p.m.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer 
Night Bass prodigy AC Slater 
is set to perform in Gainesville on 
Wednesday, giving underground 
electronic fans and mainstream 
listeners alike a chance to see the producer in an intimate setting.  
The event, which is present-
ed by Alliance Events and Lu-cid Nightlife, will be held from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. at the newly opened Gold Room Nightclub, lo-
cated at 11 SW First St. Tickets are 
$10 to $15 and can be purchased on eventbrite.com.
 Local acts Illegal Manuever, 
Blac Bear and Side Trakd will be 
opening the show. 
This is AC Slater’s second time 
in Gainesville, with his ﬁ  rst show 
being at Simons Nightclub in Sep-
tember 2015. This time around, Lucid Nightlife owner and head 
promoter Matt Collins decided to 
switch AC Slater’s performance 
from Simons Nightclub to the smaller Gold Room Nightclub.
“It’s a more intimate room and 
more intimate vibe, which is kind 
of what we’re looking for,” Collins 
said. He said the venue has a ca-pacity of about 450 to 500 people. 
AC Slater is known for Night 
Bass, a monthly event turned label that originated in Los Angeles. in early 2014. This event, which in-
corporates different underground 
sounds, has garnered quite the national following.
AC Slater has also worked with 
mainstream artists such as Skrillex 
and Diplo, showcasing his ability 
to make popular tracks that stay true to his underground roots. 
One of his most recent songs, 
“Bass Inside,” was released on the OWSLA label and has received nearly 1.5 million views on You-
Tube.
Collins, a 32-year-old UF civil 
engineering senior, said he created 
Lucid Nightlife about three years ago in the hopes of bringing more 
electronic artists to Gainesville. 
“We want to show people that 
the scene isn’t just about big room 
house,” Collins said. “There’s lots 
of amazingly talented artists.”DJ, musician AC Slater visiting Gainesville for second time
MUSIC
LOCAL
 LOCAL
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
It’s your senior year of college, and you’re 
a Florida Gator with a terrible case of football 
FOMO. With the last home game right around 
the corner, it’s a wonder how students and fans 
can think of anything except throwing around an air-ﬁ  lled lump of pigskin. We wait all year for our ﬁ  rst home game, and poof: Just like 
that, it’s over.
The reality of having to wait long, agoniz-
ing months until the next season kicks off is 
a tough pill to swallow — especially after we were robbed of two home games this season 
(insert Kermit the Frog meme here). 
Still, we have one game left to attend. Pre-
paring for the ﬁ  nale is like preparing for the 
Olympics. 
It takes ample time and consideration. It’s 
more nerve-wracking than picking out classes or applying for a ﬁ  rst “real” job. If you happen to be short on both, fear not. Here is a list of six things you can do to make this last game the 
most memorable — even if it is a noon game 
against South Carolina.
Make signs. And I mean go all out! There is 
nothing like having the witty sign that everyone at the game wants to take pictures of.  Who can forget the infamous “UMass Did Harambe” sign? It was classic, and had fans chortling and borrowing the clever slogan for several of the 
following home games. Scroll Instagram for 
some inspiration. Keep a journal next to your bed in case any good ideas spring up at 2 a.m. when you should be sleeping — or studying 
for that calc exam. Don’t miss an opportunity. 
Remember that anti-‘Nole signs are acceptable at any point during the season. Don’t worry. You’re among friends. 
Pre-game up to a week before the big 
day. Make these ﬁ  nal days before the end of football count. Play more beer pong than you ever thought possible. Throw themed parties 
every night of the week. Skip class if necessary. 
Instructors will deﬁ  nitely understand. This is football for crying out loud! 
Full body paint. The time has come for you 
to embrace the very thing that you cringe at during football games—especially in the not-so-ﬂ  attering heat of the Swamp. It’s basically a right of passage, like teenage acne. Don’t do it, 
solo, either. This needs to be done with at least 
one other person. Larger groups are a lot more fun, though. And you won’t feel that weird be-ing almost naked in a stadium of 90,000 plus people. Get creative. 
Watch the Gator Walk. You need to do 
this. Even if you’ve done it before, there will be no Gator Walk like your last. Push the little 
kids out of the way. They’ve got the rest of their 
adolescence to get high-ﬁ  ved by the Gator elite. This is your moment. 
Tailgate. This should be self-explanatory, 
but if not, let me get you up to speed. Find people that are already drunk, tell a few jokes, bump shoulders and BOOM. Free Jell-O shots. You’ll make new friends and maybe even have 
a spot to watch the game if you don’t have tick-
ets.
Chants. Do every single one of them, ev-
ery damn time the band strikes a chord. Those 
cheers will put you in the football spirit in even 
the worst of circumstances (bad weather, bad score, etc.). Hum a bunch of nonsense during the alma mater if you don’t know the words 
and can’t see the lyrics. 
And put your freaking phone down. There is 
no experience like the one you actually live, so 
don’t miss it because you’re trying too hard to get it on camera.By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Swamp Head Brewery:  A local 
favorite for craft beer fans, Swamp Head Brewery, located at 3650 SW 
42nd Ave., is known for its creative 
brews and is at its peak in fall, when it offers tons of special-edition drinks to accompany the colder weather. 
Check these out:
Pumpkin Spice Latte: Looking 
to embrace your basic white girl but 
with an alcoholic twist? Swamp Head Brewery has your back on this one. 
A white stout brewed with coffee and 
spices creates a fall taste everyone, not just PSL fanatics, can enjoy.
Oktoberfest: October may be over, 
but the spirit of Oktoberfest and fall beers carries over into this month. Oktoberfest, a German-style lager, stays true to the taste and spirit of the legendary beer festival and is the 
next-best option if you couldn’t swing 
a ticket to Munich, Germany, this year. 
Gingerbread Man Amber: It’s nev-
er too early to get into the Christmas spirit, right? This brew is an amber ale with cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, cloves and vanilla beans added in, ac-cording to the brewery’s website, and 
is just the thing if you’re wishing fall 
would turn to winter.
First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany: Another must-visit for the 21 and over crowd is First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, located at 1220 
SE Veitch St. Its tap list changes every day and gives craft beer enthusiasts the chance to explore lots of different 
brews, especially in the fall. Check these out:
Rope Swing Red Ale: Don’t let the 
summery name fool you — this beer is 
First Magnitude Brewing Company’s late fall special, and it will be on tap in November and December, accord-ing to its website. A medium red ale, 
this beer has caramel and nutty ﬂ  a-
vors to get you in the seasonal spirit. 
Hogtown Brewers Pumpkin Stout:
This dark beer with a pumpkin twist 
is exactly what you need when the 
temperature starts dropping, Christ-mas lights start going up and you real-ize ﬁ  nals are right around the corner.
World of Beer: Located at 3265 
SW 34th St., this restaurant is the way to go when looking to try a new beer. They sell over 500 brews from all over 
the world, and this season, they have 
some great fall options. It’s also worth mentioning they have amazing fall foods, including pumpkin spice apple doughnuts and a brat burger. Check 
these out:
Dogﬁ  sh Head Fall On Me: A lim-
ited-edition beer as part of WOB’s 
“Fall Pints” collection, this Belgian-
style ale is brewed with apple cider 
and spiced with cinnamon, orange peel, star anise and cloves, according to the restaurant’s website. Nothing says fall like a cider, and this cider-
hybrid brew brings us the best of both 
worlds. 
Stone Mixtape Vol. 14, The Gate-
keeper: This Russian imperial stout 
takes a more classic fall route and spruces up an India pale ale with ﬁ  gs and plums. If you like a good, dark beer with a fall touch, this is a good one to keep you going until Thanks-
giving.  Must-dos for the last gameday  Best local beers for fallTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-14-16-12-2
2BR - Small pet ok$525/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
1/1 with W/D IN unit. 5-10 minutes to cam-
pus, on bus route. Corner unit with no one above you. Complex is gated at night and has a pool, gym, sauna, tanning bed, courts, and free printing. PETS ALLOWED! Cable and HBO included. $879/month. Contact Amanda 727-418-4337     11-18-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      11-10-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647         11-10-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Gamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investi
-
gate the sincerity of the advertiser be -
fore giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ACROSS
1 Powerful
watchdogs
7 Silk Road desert
11 Pulls a
Halloween prank
on, for short
14 Put a new handle
on
15 “... wish __ a
star”
16 Part of the fam.
17 Very close
19 Police blotter
letters
20 Daughter of
Polonius
21 Dependable
source of
income
23 Tearful queen
25 Short strings?26 More skittish29 Dark mark33 Admonish34 Artisan pizzeria
feature
37 Seventh in a
Greek series
38 Birthday party
staple, and a hintto this puzzle’scircles
40 Big Band __41 Pastoral
residences
43 Huff44 Self-involvement
45 Williams of talk
TV
47 “The Square
Egg” author
49 Square, e.g.
51 Former Jesuit
school official
55 Stretch59 Sushi selection60 Holiday to-do list
task
62 “The Miracle
Worker” comm.method
63 2016 MLB
retiree
64 Online
newsgroupsystem
65 Pop artist
Lichtenstein
66 Sun., on Mon.67 Mother in
CalcuttaDOWN
1 Ponte Vecchio’s
river
2 Conserve
3 Foot part4 Hornswoggled
5 Charlotte __
6 Frequent
discount recipient
7 Word with water
or air
8 Energy org. since
1960
9 Florida city,
familiarly
10 They’re kept in
pens
11 Dash, but not dot12 Orange __13 Picnic dishes18 Smidge22 Sci-fi award24 Values highly26 Spouted vessel27 Palm fruit28 1954 Best Actress
Oscar winner
30 Some den
leaders
31 Cycle starter?
32 Showtime title
forensic
technician,familiarly34 Aspen gear
35 Scary-sounding
lake
36 NASA part: Abbr.38 Soft sound39 Meyers of “Kate
& Allie”
42 Certain happy
hour exclamation
43 Bit of 11-Down
gear
45 Borrow the limit
on46 Combat47 Sharp weapon48 “You __
grounded!”
50 ’70s TV lawman
Ramsey
52 Auction venue53 Bit of TLC?54 WBA decisions56 Muse count57 Goes with58 Spanish pronoun61 D.C. summer hrs.
By Matt Skoczen©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/10/1611/10/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 10, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
Medical Assistant or Pre-Med student want-
ed for temporary (Nov/Dec) , full time posi-tion with busy pediatric office. Please send resume to worthingtonpeds@yahoo.com or via fax 352-371-4865      11-16-16-5-14
Administrative Assistant needed at Millhopper Montessori School. Must be a self-starter & have the ability to work independently on proj-ects to completion, be comfortable working in an array of areas and environments and must be comfortable accepting new tasks at a moment’s notice. 9:00AM–5:00PM / one hour lunch. Requirements: CPR and First Aid Certification / Training or experience in related field, 4-Year Degree preferred, but not required. Contact Amilda Clark 352-375-6773, or mmschool@millhopper.com    11-16-16-5-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits  1-866-362-6497      11-10-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305       11-10-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatest
15 Services 19 Connections 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Austin Appleby will start at 
quarterback for the Gators against South Carolina. Read about him and Florida's injury woes, pg 20Florida adds two new basketball players
The UF men's basketball team gained two new members on Wednesday 
when it announced guard DeAundrae Ballard and forward Chase Johnson singed national letters of intent to play at Florida. Both players are rated as four-star prospects by ESPN.Site:  The Swamp (cap: 88,548)
Kickoff: Noon, Saturday
TV/Radio:  CBS/Gators IMG Sports 
Network
This isn’t just another football game.
Will Muschamp returns to 
Gainesville this weekend. 
For those of you who are sports il -
literate: Muschamp and Florida parted 
in 2014 because he didn’t do enough win -
ning.
A couple years later, Muschamp finds 
himself as the head coach at South Carolina, 
ready to flaunt his way back down south with his Gamecocks to show off what the Gators have been missing for the past two seasons.
Turns out, not much. South Carolina is 5-4, and the Gators are 
6-2 in their second year under coach Jim McElwain.
Still, Saturday will probably feel more 
awkward than if McElwain and Jalen Tabor went shopping at Publix together and spot
-
ted Muschamp in the frozen food aisle, un -
comfortably making eye contact and being forced to concoct three minutes of small talk before parting with a “We should catch up sometime!”
We all know they’ll never catch up.OK, that got weird.
Debating this week’s game between an Al
-
ligator and a Gamecock are sports writers Ian 
Cohen and Ethan Bauer.
Alligators will win because…I believe that in cock fights, the cock usu
-
ally wears razor blades on its talons.  That would probably get it somewhere against most animals, but alligators have pretty thick skin, so one bite from the alliga
-
tor and it's over. The alligator wins easily. However, those razor blades still do dam
-
age after death, causing the alligator to in -
ternally bleed out and die. In the battle of two of nature’s greatest creations, the deadly stalemate goes to prove that the late English philosopher Thomas Hobbes was right: Life really is “nasty, brutish and short.”
OK, that also got weird. -Ethan Bauer 
Gamecocks will win because…
I’m assuming a gamecock is synonymous 
with a rooster, and roosters are famous 
throughout history for producing one of the 
most well-known sounds of all time: the PICKS
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
After 20 matches this season, the 
Gators are only guaranteed one more.
That’s why they’re not taking Friday’s 
matchup against Florida Gulf Coast in the 
first round of the NCAA Tournament for granted.
“For every senior it’s always the same 
motivation,” forward Savannah Jordan said. “You’re only guaranteed one more game. This Friday is the only thing I’m looking at right now because it is one and done from here on out. And I think that in itself is motivation enough for me.”
Even though Florida was named a No. 
1 seed in the tournament on Monday, it will have it’s hands full trying to contain the Eagles.
Florida’s defenders will have to deal 
with FGCU forward Tabitha Tindell, who is ranked No. 2 on the NCAA’s list of active career leaders in goals (66) and points (162), trailing only Jordan.
Tindell was also named the Atlantic 
Sun Conference Player of the Year and helped lead the Eagles to a regular-season conference title. 
But Florida has had past success 
against them in the NCAA Tournament.
The Gators have faced FGCU in 
Gainesville in the tournament four times, including 2011 and 2012 when Florida knocked the Eagles out of the first round in back-to-back years.
In addition, Florida holds a 4-0 all-
time advantage against FGCU.
“We really respect them as a team,” 
UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “We are very familiar with them. I think they are really well coached and have a lot of tal-ent.”
Florida will look to its seniors — espe-
cially Jordan — to be on their game Fri-day to help the team advance.
Jordan is especially important because 
she leads her team in nearly every cat-egory, including goals, points, and shots on goal, despite uncharacteristically scor-ing only two goals in her last five games. 
“I just think we have to focus on what 
we are good at,” Jordan said. “As long as our team just stays focused on doing what we are best at, which is passing the ball, moving the ball, playing for each other and playing total team defense. I think that is the biggest thing for us.”
If Florida beats FGCU, it will advance 
to the second round and host the winner of the Wisconsin-Marquette match.
"(FGCU is) a winning program. They 
know how to win,” Burleigh said.
 “It’s going to take a good effort by us 
to advance. They are a tough first round team.”
 
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSoccer seniors hoping to extend careers
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Senior Savannah Jordan, left, dribbles during Florida's 6-0 win over Alabama on Oct. 20 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Jordan leads UF in nearly every statistical category, including goals, points and shots on goal.
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15UF begins tournament play Friday
GAME INFO
Who: No. 1-seed Florida vs  FGCUWhat: NCAA T ournament  	 first	roundWhen: Friday at 7 p.m.Where: Donald R. Dizney   StadiumTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
screeching noise you hear at dawn that sig-
nals the start of the day.
How does this have anything to do with 
a ﬁ  ght against an Alligator, you ask?
Phenomenal question.-Ian Cohen
Now, onto the picks!In ﬁ  rst place with a record of 42-36-1 
is sports writer Ian “Joggers” Cohen, who 
wore a ﬂ  y pair of relaxation pants that were found on his brother’s bedroom ﬂ  oor six years ago to the ofﬁ  ce on Wednesday. One 
sports writer was quite taken with his new 
look, noting that the joggers “hugged his legs nicely.” We know that wasn’t the com-pliment you were hoping for, Ian, but we suggest you take what you can get. When you’re wearing joggers to work, odds are there aren’t too many other ones on the way. In second place with a record of 40-38-1 
is the Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Burned” 
Hall, who was next-level dissed by what he 
thought was an automated messaging sys-tem after he replied to a text message ask-ing him to vote for Hillary Clinton in the Presidential election. Graham asked the text-messager “Where them emails at,” to which Monica A. responded with a 1,000 word thesis insulting Graham, his political views, his views on life in general, his cute foster kitten, Denzel, and his overall despi-cability as a human. Hillary 1, Graham, 0.
In third place with a record of 39-39-1 is 
sports writer Ethan “Common Sense” Bau-er, who used the only pair of serving tongs for the chicken at the post-media meal and dipped it in the bowl of ranch dressing so 
he could get some sauce on his plate. Hey 
Ethan, did it ever occur to you that maybe someone didn’t want ranch? Or that you could’ve just picked up the bowl of ranch and poured it on your plate? Or that the dude behind you gave you the stank eye be-fore he was forced to grab the chicken with his hands? No? Ahh, barnacles.
In fourth place with a record of 38-40-1 
is sports writer Patrick “Tattletale” Pinak, who was upset at Graham for putting Mon-ica A. “on blast” by posting the picture of their text message thread to his Twitter ac-count. Patrick then proceeded to reach in his backpack, pull out a “Baseball players for Hillary” sign and chanted “stronger to-gether” as he marched out of the press box.
In ﬁ  fth place with a record of 37-41-1 
is GatorCountry.com’s Nick “Nice Guy” De La Torre, who took the time out of his busy schedule to grab some media guides and hand them out to reporters earlier in the week. At ﬁ  rst glance, this might have 
seemed like an attempt to do a good deed, 
but we all know you were just looking for an excuse to get a quick arm workout in be-fore Jim McElwain showed up, Nick.
We have a two-way tie for sixth place with records of 35-42-1.
First up is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar 
“Shakespeare” Thompson, who spent about 10 minutes on Tuesday mystiﬁ  ed at the tal-ent and genius of Shakespeare, marveling at his use of iambic pentameter to cleverly ar-range rhymes. So, Edgar, you were alive in the mid 1500’s. Did you get Shakespeare's autograph?
Next is 24/7Sports.com’s Thomas “Under 
the weather” Goldkamp, who is on the picks column’s injury list yet again. No insult here. Get well soon buddy. 
And in dead-ass last with a piss-poor re-
cord of 33-45-1 is sports writer Jordan “Se-cretly a Yankee Fan” McPherson, who got extremely excited upon hearing that former 
MLB player Alex Rodriguez would be com-
ing to UF to speak. Hey Jordan, do you really want to pick Rodriguez’s brain about sports, or are you really just looking for a way to bulk up and jump on that roid wagon? We hear Rodriguez can give you a few tips.  
PICKS,  from pg.1416   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The No. 6 Florida volleyball team defeated 
Mississippi State in a clean sweep on Sunday 
to capture its 12th Southeastern Conference win of the season. 
And with the win, the Gators (22-2, 12-1 
SEC) pulled into a tie with the Missouri Tigers (21-4, 12-1 SEC) for the lead in the conference standings.
With ﬁ  ve regular season matches remain-
ing, ﬁ  nishing strong has become as important as ever for a Florida team that hasn’t won a conference regular season championship since 2014.
This week, the Gators return home to 
square off against South Carolina and Ala-bama on Friday night and Sunday afternoon, respectively. Florida swept both teams earlier 
in the year.
However, even with the daunting task of 
ﬁ  nally taking control of the SEC, one thing re-
mains clear.
The Gators are taking this one game at a 
time.
“I think right now we’re just trying to fo-
cus on the teams that we have to beat,” UF hitter Shainah Joseph said. “We’re just trying 
to take every opportunity that we have right now to get better.”
Currently, the Gators are in the midst of a 
10-game win streak, eight of which have been sweeps, and they are on pace for their best 
conference record since they went undefeated in 2014.
And UF’s play can be chalked up to the 
balanced effort it shows offensively and de-fensively. 
As a team, the Gators lead the SEC in 
nearly every statistic, including kills per set, assists per set, hitting percentage, opponent 
hitting percentage and blocks per set. 
Individually, 6-foot-8 middle Rachael 
Kramer leads the nation with a .529 hitting 
percentage, setter Allie Monserez leads the nation with 12.29 assists per set and 6-foot-4 middle Rhamat Alhassan leads the conference with 1.52 blocks per set. Hitters Alex Holston and Carli Snyder are top 10 in the conference in kills per set at 3.67 and 3.61, respectively. 
Holston said the team is focused solely on 
taking the steps necessary to improve.
“Working on the small things,” she said. 
“Having better connections in the back row, working on small things defensively, chal-lenging our passers… and increasing the speed of our serves.
“Stuff like that.”UF coach Mary Wise said improving over the course of the season has been the main goal for her team.
“The signs of the great teams are their abil-
ity to get better over the course of a season,” she said. “It’s about how do we get better.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org  Despite tight SEC race, Florida volleyball focused on present
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Shainah Joseph, left, and Rachael Kramer go for a block during Florida’s 3-0 win over 
Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Athletic Center. 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
With recorders surrounding his 
head and a circle of reporters glar-
ing at him, Quincy Wilson stared blankly at the concrete ﬂ  oor. 
For about half an hour, he knew 
this moment was coming. As soon as the clock hit zero in Florida’s loss to Tennessee, he knew he’d have to answer for his pre-game comments, when he taunted the volunteers’ 11-year losing streak against the Volunteers. 
But he decided not to. “I’m not answering that ques-
tion,” he said when asked about his comments. “That’s just what we do.”
He said something similar when 
talking after Florida’s win over Missouri, when he and Jalen Tabor both notched pick-sixes. 
“Kentucky like to throw the 
ball around and you saw how that went,” he said. “And now Mis-souri.  I mean, that’s just what we do.”Unlike his previous comment, 
this time it was easy to point to “what they do”: Dominate oppos-
ing defenses. 
While Wilson doesn’t show up 
on the stat sheet as much as Tabor 
— trailing in both tackles (12 to 14) and interceptions (3 to 4)  — some 
believe he’s as good or better than 
his highly regarded counterpart. 
Among them is an executive 
cited by NFL.com’s Daniel Jeremi-
ah, who had some decisive words 
about Wilson as well as Tabor. 
“I think Wilson is the best cor-
ner in the country,” the anony-
mous executive said. 
“Tabor gets all of the hype, but 
Wilson is better in every area.”
As a junior, Wilson will be eli-
gible for the NFL Draft along with Tabor at the end of the season. And 
even though that one executive 
preferred Wilson, there isn’t de-
ﬁ  nitive separation between the two 
players. But according to Tabor, 
that’s exactly why the duo thrives. 
“Competition brings out the 
best in us all,” he said. Opposite Tabor, Quincy 
Wilson is turning heads
Wilson was the fourth-highest-
rated DB in Florida’s 2014 
recruiting class, trailing Tabor, 
Duke Dawson and J.C. JacksonSports Illustrated projects 
Wilson as a ﬁ  rst-round NFL 
Draft pickWilson arrived at Florida as 
a three-star recruit from Ft. 
Lauderdaleby the
Quincy Wilson
3
1
4“(Tabor and I) feed 
of each other. It’s a 
friendly competition. 
You know what 
I’m saying? It ain’t 
nothing like, ‘I’m 
better than him, he 
better than me.’ But 
we both think we’re 
the best, and we’re 
both out there trying 
to get as many picks 
as we can.”
Quincy Wilson
On competing with Jalen T abor
“(Tabor and I) feed 
of each other. It’s a 
friendly competition. 
I’m saying? It ain’t 
better than him, he 
better than me.’ But 
we both think we’re 
both out there trying 
to get as many picks 
“When you’ve got two great corners 
like that, you’ve got to pick one 
side of the ield, right? ... Pick your 
poison.”
Jim McElwain
UF football head coach
McElwain
“Quincy is much more than a football 
player. Although he may be largely 
identiied as an extraordinary athlete, 
his innate leadership traits and 
benevolent nature separates him from 
the rest. He possesses the charisma to 
entertain with the humility and the 
compassion to comfort those in need.”
Roger Harriott
Wilson’s high school coach Harriott
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson stiff-arms a defender on his way to a pick-six against Missouri on Oct. 15 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
Wilson has three interceptions so far this season.
20   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2016
IT WILL MARK HIS THIRD START 
OF THE SEASON. 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer 
Austin Appleby hung his head and 
dropped his pads on the locker room ﬂ  oor 
in Neyland Stadium more than a month 
ago.
In his ﬁ  rst start as a Gator, Appleby was 
at the center of Florida’s crumbling loss to 
Tennessee — one that could still hinder 
UF’s hopes of an Southeastern Conference East title. 
But with a must-win game looming this 
weekend, Appleby is getting a shot to re-
deem himself and keep Florida’s division 
hopes alive. 
Coach Jim McElwain announced 
Wednesday that the backup quarterback 
will start in place of the injured Luke 
Del Rio against South Carolina Saturday. 
Freshman Feleipe Franks is ﬁ  rst in line if Appleby struggles, with Kyle Trask “in the bullpen.”
“Austin’s prepared well,” McElwain 
said. “He did some really good things in (practice).”
In two starts, Appleby has a 1-1 record. He threw three touchdowns and nearly 
300 yards against the Volunteers before 
faltering at Vanderbilt to the tune of 144 
yards and no scores. 
Appleby, a graduate transfer from Pur-
due, will also get the nod on his senior 
day. That narrative made McElwain’s deci-
sion slightly easier.
“He deserves it,” McElwain said. “He’ll 
be ready to go.”
The news wasn’t particularly shocking 
given the lack of experience among UF’s 
freshmen quarterbacks, but McElwain in-sisted he won’t shy away from playing Franks or Trask if Appleby struggles. 
Florida would ideally want to avoid us-
ing one of its ﬁ  rst-year signal callers, so 
one or both of them could redshirt this year.
“We’re not afraid at any point of 
(Franks) playing,” McElwain said. “We 
need a spark and you know, Feleipe could be that guy. Who knows?”
McElwain said he preferred Franks to 
Trask because of the developments he saw throughout practices. Franks improved his decision making and became more com-fortable with the team’s verbiage, but still has to work on his accuracy.
“Obviously has a heck of an arm and sometimes that arm gets him in trouble,” McElwain said. 
Davis still hurt:Jarrad Davis chose to return for his se-
nior year, but he won’t get the opportunity to play on his senior day. 
The linebacker has been ﬁ  ghting 
through an ankle injury the past few weeks that will sideline him against the Game-cocks. The loss is big, as Davis leads the team with 56 tackles. 
Davis isn’t the only player hurting. Notable starters ruled out include Del 
Rio, linebacker Alex Anzalone and center Cam Dillard, while defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson is doubtful to play.
“Injuries are part of the game and it 
happens,” McElwain said.
“And yet it’s another opportunity for 
some guys to go in there and get more playing time.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org  Austin Appleby to start for Florida against South Carolina
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby drops back to pass during Florida’s 13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Oct. 31 in Nashville. 
INSIDE
Cornerbacks Jalen T abor and Quincy Wilson are two of the best 
defensive backs in the nation. And they know it.
ONLINE
For updates from Saturday’s football game, follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports and visit alligator.org/sports.
COMPLETE
CONFIDENCEKICK OFF
Editor Ian Cohen  Photos for Cover Illustration Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, November 10, 2016
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Aazaar Abdul-Rahim doesn’t 
remember exactly how many in-
terceptions Jalen Tabor had dur-
ing his freshman year.
Eight or nine, at least.
“Every time he came in, he 
would just grab an interception,” 
Aazaar said, laughing.
So, the following year, Aazaar 
— Tabor’s high school coach — made Tabor a starter. He played 
him in a nationally televised game on ESPNU against Taft High and told Tabor to shadow Taft’s best player — a 6-foot-5 wide re-
ceiver and Oregon commit.
Tabor shut him down, and 
even made a one-handed inter-
ception while covering the receiv-
er along the sideline.
Aazaar said Tabor ﬁ  nished 
with two picks. At least.
“He has an inner drive,” 
Aazaar, now the defensive backs coach at Maryland, said. “He just 
wants to be the best.”
Tabor is the next corner in a 
long line of talented defensive backs at Florida, a school that has earned the name D.B.U. (Defen-sive Backs University) because 
of its knack for producing some 
of the best pass-defenders in the country.
There’s been Joe Haden, Jay-
len Watkins, Janoris Jenkins, 
Vernon Hargreaves and several 
others, all currently playing in the NFL.
And then there’s Tabor, a cor-
ner in his own class. Entirely.
“I knew when he was (in high school),” Aazaar said. “This 10th grader is gonna be special.”
•   •   •
The side most people see of 
Jalen Tabor is the cocky, conﬁ  -dent, trash-talking cornerback 
who thinks he’s the best player in 
the nation.
Then there’s the side that 
Aazaar sees.
“He is nothing like what he’s 
perceived by media, by Twitter 
and all that,” Aazaar said. “He is 
nothing like that.”
Tabor is often outspoken on 
social media and has used his 
Twitter presence to host live 
Q&As through Periscope.
He has also used it to voice his 
opinions and frustrations, like af-ter he was suspended in August 
for the Gators’ opener for ﬁ  ghting 
with teammate C’yontai Lewis in practice. He tweeted that he didn’t know he could get sus-
pended for a “scufﬂ  e.”
And after the Southeastern 
Conference’s Media Days in July, 
he was amused at the national media predicting Tennessee to win the division and said he 
didn’t understand “why people 
thought that someone else was running the East.”
“I’m gonna keep it honest. You 
know what I’m sayin’?” Tabor 
said. “It gives y’all something to 
write about.”
Aazaar said Tabor’s conﬁ  -
dence is necessary for the posi-
tion he plays, but that he’s a dif-
ferent person outside of football.
“People assumed because how 
he is on the ﬁ  eld that he’s just a ra-ra, real loud person,” Aazaar said. “He’s really not. He’s a re-ally chill person. He sits in the house more than anything.”
Aazaar got to know Tabor 
while training with him almost every day for four years during high school.
Sometimes it would be at prac-
tice, and sometimes they would train outside of school. 
And while Aazaar praised Ta-
bor’s natural talent and his innate 
ability to read opposing offenses 
— a characteristic he said he saw Tabor exhibit as early as a high school freshman — it’s his per-
sonality that stands out the most.
Aazaar said he texts with Ta-
bor regularly. Tabor calls his for-
mer coach on his birthday and even on Father’s Day.
“I look at him as my son,” 
Aazaar said. “I would say we’re thick as thieves.”
And the coach can’t keep from 
smiling when he receives text messages from Tabor’s mom, Merri, about her son’s play this season.
Through seven games, the cor-
ner leads Florida with four inter-ceptions — the same amount he had through 13 games last year.
And, ﬁ  ve years later, the same 
player who impressed Aazaar as a high school sophomore is as con-ﬁ  dent as ever.
“He has an inner conﬁ  dence 
about himself. I think you can at-
tribute that a lot to his family,” 
Aazaar said. “They infused con-ﬁ  dence in him that he could do whatever he set his goals out to 
do.”Tabor creating a class of his own
“When you see 23, you think 
of Michael Jordan. When you 
see 31, I want people to think 
of it as me.”
Jalen T abor
UF cornerback
Allowed zero receptions as a 
junior in high schoolHeld opposing 
quarterbacks to a 48.3 
passer rating in 2015Florida’s active leader in 
interceptions, with nineby the
Jalen T abor
9
48.3
 0“He has that savvy, that cockiness 
or arrogance or whatever, (that)competitiveness about him that you’ve got to have to be a top-light corner.”
T orrian Gray
UF defensive backs coach
Gray
“Jalen and Quincy, those two, you look at any other cornerback in college football, there’s not many out there just like those guys.”
Marcus Maye
Florida safety
Maye
Quotable
“I love the guy. He’s a guy who cares. He’s a guy who has really invested in himself. I think he’s grown up immensely as far as how he’s going about his business.”
Jim McElwain
Florida football head coach
McElwain
“I think one of the things that isn’t really talked about, is that this guy isn’t a physical freak, you know? He’s not the biggest corner, he’s not the fastest corner and he’s not the strongest corner. But 
he’s instinctive. He’s able to make 
plays, he has a way of thinking in the secondary where he sees things happen before they happen. He has an inner drive, he just wants to be the best at what he does.”
Aazaar Abdul-Rahim
T abor’s former high school coachAbdul-Rahim
