We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 156 THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
Ocasio primed for big junior year
The pitcher ﬁ  nished the regular season with the 
nation’s best ERA, pg. 22
UF alumna publishes “Love Wins” book 
20th Century Fox will make it into a movie, pg. 5
Senate talks bikes, library hours and SNAP
The meeting started with a tribute to Orlando, pg. 8Check us out online
At alligator.org or on Twitter @thealligator
Lamba
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
ORLANDO — About 5,000 
people stood packed together in 
smothering humidity at Orlando’s 
Dr. Phillips Center for the Per-
forming Arts on Monday.
A sea of candles dotted the 
crowd, and chants such as 
“Peace. Love. Pulse” emanated 
from the masses. Many listened intently as LGBTQ+ representa-tives, local government ofﬁ  cials 
and religious leaders honored the 
49 people who died after a shoot-ing at Pulse nightclub Sunday morning.
“We love Orlando,” said Ron 
Legler, the co-owner of the club. “We opened Pulse for a place for you to feel safe, and we will re-build that Pulse Orlando.”
Equality Florida hosted the event alongside partner organiza-tions, such as the Human Rights 
Campaign, the Brady Campaign 
to Prevent Gun Violence, First Unitarian Church of Orlando and about 12 others.
A rainbow of colors spanned 
across signs that read “Orlando will be strong” and “LOVE con-quers HATE,” and throughout the ﬂ  owers held by cheering visitors.
Orlando City Commissioner Patty Sheehan focused her speech on compassion and recovery.
“I have seen the power of 
love in Orlando, and I’m looking at it right now,” she said to the audience. “Orlando, we will get through this because we are a 
city that loves, and love conquers 
hate.”
Carlos Guillermo Smith, the 
government affairs manager for Equality Florida, told the crowd 
gun violence and bigotry against 
the LGBTQ+ community ulti-mately caused the massacre.
“Equality Florida, our LGBTQ 
 Thousands gather to reﬂ  ect during Orlando vigil 
SEE ORLANDO,  PAGE 4
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police arrested an as-
sistant professor in the UF College of 
Pharmacy on Tuesday after authori-ties said he cyberstalked a woman.
On Tuesday, the woman vis-
ited the police department and said Vishal Lamba would not stop send-ing her emails and texts, even after she told him to stop, according to 
a police report. 
Lamba’s be-
havior made the 
woman uncom-fortable, and she began to walk to and from certain 
places with her mother for added safety, according to the report. The report also states that Lamba 
followed the woman’s car when he 
thought she was inside, according 
to the report. When he walked up to the car, he instead found the wom-an’s father. 
Lamba told police he did not 
know the woman, but later admit-ted to speaking with her, according to the report. 
When police tried to arrest Lam-ba, he tensed his arms, pulled away and refused to be handcuffed, ac-
cording to the report. 
The university placed Lamba on 
paid administrative leave until fur-
ther notice, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email Wednesday.
He joined the university on a ten-
ure track in July 2014, according to his resume. Lamba pled not guilty Wednesday, and the woman now has a restraining order against him, according to Alachua County court 
records. 
Police charged Lamba with stalk-
ing and resisting an ofﬁ  cer without 
violence. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Wednesday afternoon on a $5,000 bond. 
@saradmarino 
smarino@alligator.org
 UF professor charged with cyberstalking, pleads not guiltyBy Emma Green
Alligator Staff Writer
Professors at UF tend to be more liber-
al on paper but more moderate and unbi-
ased in practice, according to an analysis of campaign contributions.
A look at the Federal Election Com-
mission’s records of UF professors since 2015 reveals that those employed by uni-versities and who donate to presidential candidate campaigns tend to be more liberal.
However, only 14 of the thousands 
of professors employed by the university were reported to have donated to a presi-dential candidate’s campaign directly. This excludes those who donated to po-litical action committees, such as Emily’s List, which bundles money and sends contributions to various places, including House and Senate campaigns.
Of those professors, eight donated to 
Clinton’s campaign, four to Sanders’, one to Rubio’s and one to Carson’s.
Hearing that 14 professors had do-
nated to a presidential campaign struck Professor Stephen Craig as a low number.
The 67-year-old UF political science 
professor embarking on his 38th year at 
UF guessed that the reason these 14 had 
donated in the ﬁ  rst place was “because 
they make more than the rest of us.”
He was not surprised, however, at the 
number of law professors who had do-nated to Democratic candidates, saying 
he was sure the level of interest in poli-
tics is higher with lawyers.
Professor Craig said he does not con-
tribute to campaign funds anymore. He said he aims to maintain a neutral stance 
inside and out of the classroom and takes 
pride in the fact that students still come 
to him and say they’ve been debating his 
political party afﬁ  liation.
“Any sort of political advocacy… 
would undermine that bipartisan stance 
that I’ve worked so hard to take,” Craig 
said. “Money has corrupted the [political] 
process to the point where I don’t want to 
be a part of that.”
Another political science profes-C ontributions point to  
professors’ political slant  
SEE POLITICS,  PAGE 4
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Streetside Singing 
David Cotton, 29, plays an original song at Maude’s Classic Cafe stage during the 
Third Wednesday Arts Market in downtown Gainesville. Cotton has been playing the guitar for 13 years and gets his inspiration from roots music.“W e opened Pulse for a place 
for you to feel safe, and 
we will re-build that Pulse 
Orlando.”
                         Ron Legler
Pulse co-ownerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  92° LOW  74°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
World Blood Donor Day celebra-
tion
LifeSouth Community Blood Center will host a weeklong blood drive in celebration of World 
Blood Donor Day today. The 
blood drive will run until Friday. Everyone who donates either on UF’s campus on Turlington Plaza or at one of the Gainesville Donor Centers, located at 1221 NW 13th St. and 4039 Newberry Road from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. for the du-ration of the drive, will be entered 
to win Prizes that include a $300 makeover from Eden Michele 
Salon, tickets to the Kennedy Space Center and more! Donors must be healthy, 17 or older, or 16 with parental permission, and 
weigh at least 110 pounds. A pho-
to ID is required. Blood donors will be rewarded with snacks and a T-shirt. Visit lifesouth.org for additional information or call the toll-free line at 888-795-2707.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to aalbright@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer. Improperly for-
matted submissions may not ap-pear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Mathews Silva, Donovan Vazquez,   
  Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 156
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
Floridians, we all stand in soli-
darity, not just with the Latino community, but as well with the 
Muslim and Islamic community 
in opposition to intolerance and discrimination and hate crimes that our people continue to face,” 
he said.
Not only did the gunman at-
tack the LGBTQ+ community 
where it felt most safe, Smith said, but he also attacked the His-
panic community.
“As I watch the families hug-
ging their families, and we see the 
pictures on TV, I realize they look 
like my family,” he said.Local firefighter Paul Urquijo 
joined the crowd and reflected on 
his own experience. Though he partied just like many others Sun-day morning, Urquijo said he did 
so in the safety of another venue 
down the road.
He said it was impressive to 
watch thousands of people gather in solidarity Monday, bringing 
the city together for an evening.
Still, he said, the attack will 
remain a shock to his community.
“I was just having a conversa-
tion about how safe it is out here,” 
Urquijo said. “Sure enough, this [attack] happens.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgORLANDO,  from pg 1Speakers stressed 
discrimination against 
the LGBTQ+ community
sor, David Hedge, 65, tends not 
to donate to campaigns himself because he said, “They raise so much money on their own they 
tend not to need mine.”
Professor Hedge was not sur-
prised by the Federal Election 
Commission data because it most-ly aligned with what he thought the politically active professors 
would donate.
“The higher your income, the 
more you’re able to contribute,” 
he said. 
While Hedge recognized that 
many professors lean left, he said 
most try not to speak about their 
political views. The reason he lets his students know what he is from the start, a progressive Democrat, 
is so it doesn’t sneak up on them, 
he said.He tries not to let his political 
tendencies affect his teaching, 
however.
“You have to be objective, or 
nobody’s going to believe you,” he said.
Nicole Malec, a 27-year-old UF 
political science and international studies alumna, has experienced professors who’ve been biased in their teaching, that is, before she came to UF. “Their biases were 
so strong it was unbelievable,” 
Malec said of her past professors.
When she got to UF, she said 
she noticed a huge difference, and 
bias wasn’t a problem.
Malec guessed many of her UF 
professors were moderate Demo-crats and felt it reasonable for them to contribute to campaigns, as they understand the political 
system. There’s nothing wrong 
with a professor letting his stu-dents know what side he’s on, 
she said.
Malec said a lot of professors at 
UF probably think of themselves in the way that her past political science professor Benjamin Smith does. 
“I’m not a politician; I study 
them,” she paraphrased from one of his lectures.
@emmaginable
egreen@alligator.org
POLITICS,  from pg 1Of the 14 donors, two contributed to  
Republican presidential canidiates
Which college professors were from
Who contributed to the Republican 
candidates:
• College of Medicine
• College of Engineering
Who contributed to Democratic 
candidates:
• College of Veterinary Medicine
• Levin College of LawTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Catherine Dickson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Beginning in the Fall, Library West will 
keep its doors open 24/7.
According to a survey taken during the 
Spring, about 51 percent of students prefered 
using Library West as opposed to the 36 per-cent who chose Marston. Another 13 percent chose either, said Barbara Hood, the director of communications for George A. Smathers Libraries.  
“We want to give the students what they 
want,” she said.
When Marston became a 24/5 library, 
traffic increased from approximately 862,000 students in 2014-2015 to 1.4 million in the next school year, she said. 
“I would assume the traffic will in-
crease as much, if not more, once the hours change,” she said. 
The new hours will include the use of 
printers and study rooms, and Starbucks will remain open, Hood said. 
Jana Ronan, the chairwoman of Library West, said Student Government is awarding the library $133,000 to extend its hours. 
“We’re really excited about offering 24/7 
library hours,” she said. 
Nick Moreno, a 20-year-old UF mechani-
cal engineering senior, said he typically uses the libraries up to four times a week to study. 
“I’m a night owl by nature,” he said. “I 
do a lot better staying up late than waking up early to study.” 
Moreno said he remembers completing 
the survey, and he would have preferred 
Marston. 
“Marston will always be my home,” he 
said, “but I’ll use Library West when I need 
to.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgLibrary to extend operating 
hours next semester 
LIBRARY WEST 
• 1,400 seats
• 200 computers 
• 16 study rooms
• Graduate study spaceBy Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: Debbie Cenziper was an 
editor at the Alligator from 1990 to 1991.  
Last year, the legalization of same-sex 
marriage made history. 
This year, a Gator graduate documented 
that history.
Debbie Cenziper, a Pulitzer Prize-win-
ning reporter at the Washington Post, pub-
lished her first book, “Love Wins,” Tues-day.
The book is underway to becoming a 
movie by 20th Century Fox, she said.
Cenziper wrote about Jim Obergefell, a 
plaintiff in the case and the book’s co-au-thor, and more than 30 other plaintiffs.
Two months before the Supreme Court’s 
decision on June 26, Cenziper said she took a leave of absence after reading a story about the case.
“I didn’t know whether the Supreme Court was going to side with the plaintiffs, but I 
decided to take a chance,” 
Cenziper said. “I wanted 
to tell this story about ordinary people doing ex-traordinary things.”
Ivan Lizardi, a UF in-
dustrial and systems en-
gineering senior, said he doesn’t remember much about the case itself but was happy 
when he found out.
“It’s a small step, but it’s a step nonethe-
less in my eyes,” the 21-year-old said.
The LGBTQ+ community faced a trag-
edy in Orlando last weekend, but Cenziper said she hopes this book can inspire people.
“What happened in Orlando was about 
hate,” she said. “This book is about love 
and perseverance. I hope that in this time 
of mourning and grief, maybe this book can 
inspire people and make them feel better.”
mandrade@alligator.orgUF alumna publishes book 
on same-sex marriage
Cenziper
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORGuest Column
New administration and developments to come
Hey Gator Nation!
It’s hard to believe we are already 
in the last week of Summer A! In just 
a few short weeks, Summer B classes will begin, and the Class of 2020 will 
ofﬁ  cially begin their journey. With that said, it has been full steam ahead for my administra-tion over the past six weeks.
We have successfully advocated for the 
Student Body in so many different ways. Our efforts through the External Affairs agency of Student Government to lobby the state legislature for Summer Bright Futures have led to Gov. Rick Scott’s “Finish in Four, Save More” challenge, which encourages 
students to pursue the completion of their degree pro-
grams in four years. The challenge addresses the need for ﬁ  nancial support by supporting the implementation of Summer Bright Futures for those students taking courses, especially toward the completion of the nine credits that are state-mandated.
Student leaders at our institution as well as from in-
stitutions across our state have been urging the leaders of our state to implement these measures for years, but 
I am so proud to be a part of an administration that has 
ﬁ  nally made the prospect of ﬁ  nancial support during the Summer semester a true possibility. There is much more we hope to accomplish in Tallahassee this year, and I look forward to updating you all as the year continues. 
Another important development concerns study 
space. If you have not already heard, Library West, come the Fall semester, will ofﬁ  cially be a 24/7 study space. Surveys from UF libraries made it very clear that students 
prefer Library West as a dedicated study space with over-
night hours, and I made sure those overnight hours could be extended into the weekends as well.
Most importantly, the switch back to Library West is 
indicative of what my administration hopes to accom-plish: listening to you. By listening to the opinions of the Student Body, I know we can continue to build a positive relationship between students and their SG.In May, SG and Business Services ﬁ  nally con-
ﬁ  rmed the development of Chick-ﬁ  l-A Break-fast. Similar to a dedicated 24/7 study space, Chick-ﬁ  l-A Breakfast has been asked for by the Student Body almost as long as Chick-ﬁ  l-A has 
been a food service partner with our campus — 
over a decade! Construction will begin in the Hub in May 2017, and the renovated Chick-ﬁ  l-A, complete with the full breakfast menu, will be available Fall 2017.  
Impactful developments for student life like 
these are central to the platform that Brendon Jonassaint, Kishan Patel and I ran on in the Spring. Like I said dur-ing the debate, our platform is a binding contract to the 
Student Body. These are promises we will follow through 
on by the end of our term.  
With that said, we felt it was very necessary to be as 
transparent as possible about the accomplishment of our platform, which is why Action SG, an agency of the Ex-ecutive Branch, has created the Platform Tracker Video Series, which are released shortly after we have ﬁ  nished any of our platform points, whether from the Spring or Fall.
I highly encourage anybody looking to gain more in-
sights into the amount of work that went into making initiatives like Chick-ﬁ  l-A Breakfast happen to check out our Facebook (UF Student Government) and our Insta-gram (@ufsg).
I also encourage interested students to come learn 
more about their SG by meeting their ofﬁ  cials. It is al-ways such a treat to talk to interested students about how we can work together to make our campus a better 
place. We are on the third ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union!
If you have any comments or concerns, feel free to 
visit our website or email us. My email is
president@sg.uﬂ  .edu.
Here’s to an exciting 2016-2017 year, and, as always, 
Go Gators!
Susan Webster is the UF Student Body president. Her 
column appears monthly.How do we have a Darts & Laurels today, while we still 
grieve over those we lost in Orlando, while we painstak-
ingly hold our breath for those still in recovery. The rest of the country can move on, but how do we? It happened right here at home. How did those in Newtown, Connecticut, or Charleston, South Carolina, move on when mass murder devastated their lives?
We’re seeing Pulse be weaved into a variety of politi-
cal narratives, all of which deface the issue from the lives forever changed after Sunday morning. We do, as a matter of fact, need to discuss the issues at hand if we want to prevent another San Bernardino, Columbine or Pulse from happening.
However, in terms of moving forward together, we at 
the Alligator wish to take a cue not from those who would play political calculus with Pulse, but rather, those with a 
true stake in what happened. Carlos Perez, who opened an 
Orlando vigil Sunday, said, “I don’t want this to be the end 
of anything, but the beginning of us staying together as a 
community and helping one another.”
So, as a means of staying together, expressing love and 
sharing the gift that is life and joy with you all, we’d like to present you with this moment of relief.  
Darts & Laurels
Is there anything better than blasting Adele in your car 
as you speed down the highway? The singer and songwriter 
caught some headlines recently for calling out critics. Dur-ing a performance Saturday night, a fan-shot video caught Adele saying, “Some dickhead tried to say that my voice was not me on the record. Dude, suck my dick.“ We know: This is truly devastating.
One of mainstream music’s quintessential experts on 
heart-rending love and loss, a true role model for young women around the world, is nothing more than a… totally normal 28-year-old woman who drops the “D” every now and again. In fact, after dedicating years of her life to di-vulging her darkest secrets and serving as a sort of benevo-lent all-mother to those undergoing heartbreak, Adele may have quite a few profanities wound up inside of her ready to blow.
Be ready next year for her latest singles: “I Can’t Make 
You Love Me… Dickhead” and “Hello… Suck My Dick.” We give a laurel to Adele for sticking to her guns and 
standing up for her voice. Though, in light of the new Red Hot Chili Peppers album to come out Friday, we would have preferred you said “Suck My Kiss.”
In gamer news, Bethesda Game Studios announced a 
launching of “The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Special Edi-tion” Just when we thought our society had enough of a problem getting people out of the house and engaged in physical activity, the ultimate temptress that is “The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim” re-emerges in a new form to pin us down in front of a screen and steal hours of our lives from us: a dart to this new development for further forcing us in-nocent gamers into an endless cycle of all-nighters and procrastinating responsibilities.
There, a brief moment of relief. Hopefully you can share 
a few chuckles from that. We can move on from Orlando, but the way we move forward is by being there for one another.
This is no simple task. Tolerance and empathy aren’t 
just words — they’re commitments. And yet, so many in our community have already committed themselves whole-heartedly through their words and actions. We’ve taken the ﬁ  rst step, together. Now, we must ﬁ  nish the lap, as one community, one Orlando, one pulse.
Susan Webster
opinions@alligator.orgColumn
There is a Swahilian proverb: “The world 
is a ﬁ  eld of chaos.” With my eyes I see it is so, and with all my heart I wish it wasn’t the case.
Shocked, saddened, hurt, mad, in-
credulous: words that are ultimately hollow when I try to describe how I feel, and when I realize I’ll never grasp the trauma and tragedy endured by those in Orlando. What was their crime?
I awoke Sunday and saw the news on Face-
book, at once squinting my eyes and thinking, “Really, again?” Then the numbers came in: 20 people dead, 40 wounded. Fifty people dead, 
even more wounded: Millions of heartbeats, hopes and dreams extinguished in 
a moment. 
After plenty of reﬂ  ection, I re-
turned to social media, and the en-tire feed was an outpouring of cyber 
love, solidarity and support.
I’m tired, and I’m indignant, to 
see that many want to look at any 
mass shooting in the U.S. as an act of random violence. 
The popular narrative to which 
we’re subjected by the media is that acts of violence, even those against already marginalized groups, are random, and 
everything can be reduced to the mental illness of one individual. Society at large is 
always presumed to be an innocent bystander of sorts.
How can you tell me a country 
that has derided and mocked gay 
people and people of color since day 
one is not complicit in their dehu-manization and murder?
Having been the punch line of 
so many jokes and the subject of so many sermons, how could gays, transgender people, queers and peo-ple of color have ever been expected 
to live a normal existence?
The inherent privilege of being cisgender, straight and white is that you are by default the default. 
This incident will likely reignite the debate 
on the role of guns in the U.S., which is a much-needed discussion.
What we witnessed in Orlando was a bar-
baric explosion of hatred, made much more ef-ﬁ  cient and deadly by ﬁ  rearms. We are thus left with two prime obstacles: queerphobia and the proliferation of guns in the U.S.
May the victims rest in eternal peace, and 
may their death not be in vain. 
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics master’s student. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays. THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWhat is this tragedy befalling our world? It is time to change the narrative8   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
During Tuesday night’s Senate 
meeting, Senate President Jenny 
Clements started her report with a moment of silence for victims of the recent mass shooting in Orlando.
Afterward, she encouraged UF 
students who are affected by the tragedy to contact U Matter, We Care for additional support. 
Danielle Quevedo and David 
Mkoji, both sophomores, used the public debate session to  present their new organization, SwampCy-cle. 
They proposed a plan to install 
shared bike stations for students on campus. The initiative is meant to of-fer students an easier transportation system on campus, especially when someone doesn’t own a bike. 
The current plan is to set up 
shared bike stations in predominant areas on campus, such as Turlington Plaza, Marston Science Library and 
Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Students 
would have to swipe their Gator 1 Card before and after using the bikes, and the estimated cost to ride would be $5 an hour.
If the program were established, 
providing preview bike tours and of-fering visitors the opportunity to pay for a bike tour could be possible.  
The new idea is in the early pro-
cess of being connected with Student Government. There are currently no other details about the cost of instal-lation or if Senate will help the orga-nization.
Capt. Jeff Holcomb later an-
nounced the Student Nighttime Aux-iliary Patrol is ofﬁ  cially moving from the University Police Department to the transportation department. 
The vehicles, he said, will be 
moved to Garage 2 for storage, but no changes other than management should be made to the service. 
Holcomb said he believes the ser-
vice will be better managed under the new department. 
He also addressed the question 
of whether SNAP would ever of-fer its services off-campus. Such an 
initiative would require a lot of ex-
pansion, Holcomb said, and it won’t likely happen in the near future. The Executive Branch also re-
leased a public video of Student Body President Susan Webster and 
Vice President Brendon “B. J.” Jona-
ssaint announcing the 24/7 open-ing of Library West in the Fall. As of press time, the announcement is SG’s most popular video, with 54,000 views on Facebook.
There will be no Senate meeting 
next week. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
 Senate talks bike sharing, library hours and SNAP
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Australian doctors told 
Wayne Garland he had spinal can-cer and would live no more than six months, he quit his job and traveled to Asia to try to prove them wrong. 
Garland will turn 70 this month and has lived 27 years past that di-
agnosis. He found his cure in vita-
mins, herbs and minerals.
Garland is the founder of Paleo-
Ganic, the ﬁ  rst and only immune system food company in the U.S., he said.
PaleoGanic is a Gainesville start-
up company that began in Decem-ber. The company sells healing, or-ganic vegan soups. 
The soups are available at Haile 
Farmer’s Market, Lucky’s Market, Ward’s Supermarket, North Flori-da Integrated Medicine and at two Jacksonville locations.
He spent 13 years traveling 
throughout the East to learn natural medicine.
“I didn’t ﬁ  nd just one answer,” Garland said. “I found a thousand.”
Micheline Voets, a 51-year-old 
physical therapist, went through surgery and chemotherapy to ﬁ  ght her breast cancer. The treatments dehydrated her and gave her severe diarrhea.
“I was able to go through my last 
treatment without any diarrhea at all,” Voets said. “All the ingredients that he chooses really helps your 
immune system.”
When possible, PaleoGanic gets 
most of its ingredients from local 
farms, like Swallowtail Farm.
“I knew that if I was going to 
sell this food in America, it had to taste great,” he said. “America has the most demanding stomach in the world.” 
 Local startup hopes to provide natural healing with soupTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
From drug addict to cyclist, A. J. Tatum 
hopes to turn Active For Recovery into a 
nonproﬁ  t organization.
Founded two years ago by Tatum, the 
organization hosts cycling events to raise 
awareness of addiction and mental illness.
The ﬁ  rst bike ride, Biking Thru Addic-tion, was hosted during National Recovery 
Month in September, where 60 participants cycled 16 miles through the Gainesville-
Hawthorne State Trail.
The event last year raised over $1,000. 
This year, on Sept. 17, his goal is to raise 
$1,500.
After his father passed away in 2004, Ta-
tum said he turned to drugs to deal with his depression.“I had no energy to do anything,” he 
said. “I also had acid reﬂ  ux and was given all these prescriptions for things. It was just too much for a 29-year-old.”
As a child, he enjoyed riding his bike, so 
he chose to cycle during his recovery.
Cycling inspired him to start an organi-
zation where people can come together and recover.
One of the organization’s newest mem-
bers is Colin Hines, who volunteers at Meta-morphosis, a Gainesville substance abuse 
treatment program.“I think it’s imperative for me to be 
physically active as part of my recovery 
program,” he said. “It helps me clear my mind.”
Tatum said he’s looking forward to cy-
cling with others.
“It’s going to be fun, and it’ll give me an 
opportunity to learn about the community more,” he said. 
mandrade@alligator.org Local cyclist fosters awareness, recovery through rides
GET “LOVE 
CONQUERS HATE”
FOR $50. 
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A 25-year-old tattoo artist in Gainesville 
is using her craft to raise money for vic-
tims of the Orlando shooting.  
Caroline Phillpot of Sacred Skin Stu-
dios, located at 4445 SW 35th Terrace, is 
offering a rainbow heart design, adorned 
with a phrase that reads “LOVE CON-
QUERS HATE” for $50.
Half the proceeds will be donated to a 
GoFundMe created by Equality Florida, an organization that focuses on equality for 
Florida’s LGBTQ+ community, Phillpot 
said. She hopes to raise $1,000. 
“The more I thought about it, I start-
ed thinking about that Mr. Rogers quote about looking for the helpers and I started 
thinking, ‘How could I help?’” she said.  
Phillpot said she became serious about 
tattoo art when she studied abroad in Aus-
tria during high school.
Though she did not speak German, 
Phillpot said she often communicated through art. 
As a bisexual mother and a peace ad-
vocate, Phillpot said she hopes the tattoos 
serve as a reminder that love and compas-sion are always the answer. 
Erica Carter, a 24-year-old photogra-
phy student at Santa Fe College, said she hopes to add the heart to her collection of about 20 tattoos.
“I get my tattoos for myself, but this is 
a tattoo that I’m getting for hundreds of people, including myself,” she said. “It’s a tattoo that I would be proud to show off.”
@twitter.com
jrodriguez  Tattoos for charity to beneﬁ  t Orlando shooting victims
The next event is on Sept. 17 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator 
Caroline Phillpot, a 25-year-old tattoo artist, poses in the shop she works in, Sacred Skin Studios, where she is offering tattoos of a rainbow heart with the words “LOVE CONQUERS HATE, ” for $50. She started the initiative af-ter the shooting in an Orlan-do nightclub and will donate 50 percent of the proceeds to charity.
SMART CHARITY
Is the charity registered? 
Check 800HelpFla.com
Are there complaints? 
Check Give.org
How does the charity spend 
its money?      Check FreshFromFlorida.com10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
By Nealy Kehres 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ed Gilman strengthened more 
than just trees. 
After 30 years researching and 
teaching arboriculture (the cultiva-
tion of trees) for the UF Institute of 
Food and Agricultural Sciences, Gil-
man improved relations between different professionals in the indus-try, boosted research funding and increased the usefulness of research findings. For these reasons, Gilman said he is content with entering re-tirement June 24. “When I retire, I feel very com-
fortable that they don’t need me any-more,” he said. “We’ve developed a 
process and a culture in the industry 
that this will carry on by itself with-out me.”
Gilman started his career at UF 
in 1986. He has since taught classes related to plant identification and arboriculture and also made strides in the arboriculture industry through his research and instruction. 
He said Florida’s 2004 hurricane 
season inspired him to study how people could prevent trees from fall-ing in high winds.“There were six or seven hurri-
canes that year that ripped through Florida in all different directions, 
with tens of thousands, if not hun-
dreds of thousands of trees on the ground,” Gilman said. “We wanted to know why those trees fell over.”
He joined a team to research how 
trees could be planted, raised and pruned differently to reduce risk dur-ing severe weather. 
In a partnership with the Florida 
Chapter of the International Society of Arboriculture, Gilman helped cre-ate a “TreesAreCool” license plate that continues to raise money for a research endowment at UF, Gilman said. 
The license plate raised at least 
$380,000, according to a June 3 press release. 
Gilman said his curiosity and en-
suing achievements all started at the age of 7 with a few outings in his own neighborhood.
“I saw a couple of trees planted in 
front of our house, and I thought that was pretty cool because I didn’t even 
know people planted trees,” Gilman 
said. “I thought ‘Hey that’s neat, that would be cool to study someday.’”
Andrew Koeser, a UF assistant professor of landscape management, said Gilman’s innovation and work ethic is impressive.
“Ed was probably the most pro-
ductive person in our field,” Koeser said. “He’s very passionate and very curious. Whoever replaces him has really big shoes to fill.”
Once retired, Gilman plans to 
enjoy his time working with stained glass, consulting and extending his work with trees even further. 
“I’ve worked with living trees for 
so many years, so now I’m going to be working with dead trees – wood-working,” he said.  
Professor to retire after 30 years dedicating life to trees THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
THE PURPOSE WAS TO
HIGHLIGHT THE BENEFITS
OF AGRICULTURAL
INNOVATION.
By Nealy Kehres 
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF and 12 other research institutions united with Sup-
porters of Agricultural Research to create a report that 
highlights the beneﬁ  ts of agricultural research and inno-vation. 
“Retaking the Field: The Case for a Surge in Agricul-
tural Research” is meant to convince policy makers that increasing funding is necessary to ensure food security and safety for future generations.
Carrie Lapaire Harmon, the director of the Florida 
Plant Diagnostic Center at UF’s Institute of Food and Ag-ricultural Sciences, led UF’s project, which focused on a pathogen plaguing Florida’s Loropetalum, a popular shrub. 
Many researchers suspected the pathogen causes a 
disease called olive knot, which could be detrimental to Florida’s growing olive industry, Harmon said. 
After three years of further research, the team deter-
mined the pathogen only affects Loropetalum.
The study dismissed concerns about the pathogen 
hurting olives, and it helped the teams learn more about all bacterial pathogens related to olive knot. 
Increased funding for agricultural research at UF 
would also mean more opportunities for students at the 
institute, said Jackie Burns, the dean of research for IFAS. 
“If we were able to garner more support in any way, 
we would be able to enhance our mission, which is to 
not only conduct research but also train and mentor stu-dents,” she said. “They are the face of the future of ag-riculture.”  UF joins national 
research project
IT RUNS
UNTIL JUNE 25.
By Maria Velandia
Alligator Contributing Writer
Starting today, Gainesville’s local din-
ing scene comes together for the third-
annual Restaurant Week.
Hosted by the Gainesville Area Cham-
ber of Commerce, the event will feature 
more than 25 restaurants, breweries, win-
eries and more.
The event will run from 4 p.m. to 7 
p.m. today, and it will run from various times every day through June 25 at the 
University Air Center, located at 3880 NE 
39th Ave.
Admission is $15 per person, per day.“Restaurant Week is a great, tasty 
celebration for the public,” said Alyssa Brown, the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce communications director. “They look forward to it every summer.”
Brown said Restaurant Week was cre-
ated to ease the slow down local business-es receive during the summer, and there is a real beneﬁ  t from it.
“Restaurants create special deals for 
this event, so there may be deals and dishes that you can’t get any other time in 
the year,” Brown said.
Emiliano’s Cafe has participated in the 
event for the past three years.
“It’s an opportunity for us to drive a 
little more business during the slower 
summer hours,” said Diego Ibañez, Emil-iano’s Cafe general manager. “For us it’s a no-brainer to support Restaurant Week and be involved with it.”
Ibañez said the restaurant will have 
drink specials each day of the event and live music.
For more information about Restaurant 
Week, visit gainesvillerestaurantweek. Gainesville Restaurant Week begins
Alligator File Photo Courtesy of Prost Photography
Pictured is a meal of chicken with spicy mango-jalapeño salsa, black beans over Spanish rice and asparagus 
from Emiliano’s Cafe.CAMPUS12   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
Neil DeMaster / Flikr
Pictured is the chalk bass, a simultaneous hermaphroditic fish, which changes genders mul-
tiple times a day and also mates for life.
By Rachel Donohue
Alligator Contributing Writer
One species in the waters of  Co-
lon, Panama, remains with the same partner throughout its entire life, but it switches genders at least 20 times a day. 
The chalk bass could teach people a 
thing or two about life, according to a press release. 
Mary K. Hart, an adjunct faculty 
member in the UF Department of Bi-ology, studied the fish for six months with her husband, Andrew Kratter, an ornithologist with the Florida Museum 
of Natural History.
They studied the chalk bass to learn 
more about its odd mating system, 
Hart said. 
The fish are simultaneous hermaph-
rodites, she said, which allows them to bounce between gender roles as needed.
Lesson one: People give what 
they get.  
When one fish produces 50 eggs, 
the partner will produce an identical amount when it switches genders.
“Eggs are more expensive than 
sperm, and it’s much more costly to 
produce eggs,” Hart said. “All of the 
fish are matching their investment in the partnership, and some fish within pairs are putting extra effort into the 
female function.”
Even when accounting for the size 
of the fish, the correlations remained, Hart said.
Lesson two: Cheating isn’t cool.
The fish also proved to be unusu-
ally faithful, she said. Of the 76 pairs Hart identified in her first month of 
research, all stayed with their original 
mating partners until one of the fish left the pairing, usually due to a preda-
tor attack. 
Lesson three: It pays to impress 
one’s partner. 
Not all of the fish were the perfect 
mate, however. Hart reported that 
about 20 percent of the fish broke 
away from their pairs and released 
sperm while another pair is mating.  
“It is possible that a fish engages in 
streaking behavior to compensate for 
a partner’s under-production of eggs,” 
Hart said. 
Lesson four: A stable relation-
ship has its benefits.
These unusual mating quirks seem 
to be a strong evolutionary advantage for the Panama fish, Hart said. Because 
the fish are simultaneous hermaphro-dites, they can fertilize as many eggs as they can produce.
It is not beneficial for the chalk bass 
to produce only sperm, because it is highly unlikely the fish would fertilize enough eggs, she said. 
“One must be able to offer eggs to 
receive eggs in return,” she said. “Indi-
viduals that invest everything in male 
function can’t fertilize enough fish to make up for being all male. It’s like getting a good piece of another pie.”Researchers publish study on small hermaphrodite fish THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales InternSales Representative
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to Ms. Jordan Thurn atGain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekends
Email resume for sales rep position to Shaun O’Connor at
intern@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Summer 2016
soconnor@alligator.org
*Must be enrolled in summer 
classes at UF or Santa Fe to apply
ALLIGATOR DRAGS TODDLER —
In the shadow of the Magic Kingdom, Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Ofﬁ  cers search for the body of a young boy Wednesday, June 15, 2016, after the boy was snatched off the shore and dragged underwater by an alligator Tuesday night at Grand Floridian Resort at Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla. 
(Red Huber/Orlando Sentinel via AP)
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. — The body of a 
2-year-old Nebraska boy who was snatched off 
a Walt Disney World beach by an alligator and dragged underwater was recovered Wednesday, ending a ghastly search at one of the world’s 
most popular tourist destinations.
Divers found the body of Lane Graves about 
16 hours after authorities ﬁ  rst got the call that a 
reptile had taken the boy from the water’s edge at Seven Seas Lagoon despite his father’s frantic attempt to save the child.
Sheriff Jerry Demings said it appeared the gator 
pulled the child into deeper water and drowned him, leaving the body near the spot where he was 
last seen. An autopsy was planned.
“Of course the family was distraught, but also 
I believe somewhat relieved that his body was 
found intact,” Demings told a news conference.
The boy’s parents were identiﬁ  ed as Matt and 
Melissa Graves of Elkhorn, Nebraska, a suburban area of Omaha. A family friend released a state-ment on behalf of the couple thanking well-wish-ers for their “thoughts and hope-ﬁ  lled prayers.”
CEO Michael Iaccarino of Infogroup, a market-
ing company where Matt Graves is chief data of-ﬁ  cer, said Grave’s family “is the light of his life.”
In a statement from Disney World Resort Pres-
ident George A. Kalogridis, the company said it was “doing what we can” to help the family.
Disney World closed beaches around Seven 
Seas Lagoon during the search, and it was not immediately clear when they would reopen.
While “no swimming” signs are posted at the 
beach where the boy was attacked, no signs warn about alligators. A company representative said it would “thoroughly review the situation for the future.”
Demings said his agency and state wildlife of-
ﬁ  cials would look into the issue of warning signs. The sheriff told The Associated Press that investi-gators would also review whether the boy’s par-
ents should be charged, but it’s not likely.
“There nothing in this case to indicate that 
there was anything extraordinary” in terms of ne-
glect by the parents, Demings said.
Wildlife ofﬁ  cials said the attack was a rarity 
in a state with a gator population estimated at 1 million. But it still spooked visitors in a city built on tourism.
“We have been to Yellowstone and encoun-tered grizzly bears, but this is just freaky,” said Minnesota tourist John Aho, who was staying at the park with his wife, Kim, and their 12-year-old son, Johnny.
The child had waded no more than 1 or 2 feet 
into the water around nightfall Tuesday when he was taken from a small beach, authorities said.
The boy’s father desperately tried to ﬁ  ght off 
the gator, suffering lacerations on a hand, but he could not save his son. Neither could a nearby lifeguard, ofﬁ  cials said.
No other alligator attacks have been reported 
on the man-made lake, according to Demings.
Some visitors were surprised to learn the rep-
tiles lived on the property.
“My question is why are there alligators in 
there?” said Michelle Stone, who lives near De-troit and was visiting Disney for 10 days with her two children.
The sheriff said the company has a wildlife 
management system and has “worked diligently to ensure their guests are not unduly exposed to wildlife here in this area.”
Nick Wiley with the Florida Fish and Wild-
life Conservation Commission said witnesses es-
timated the alligator was 4 feet to 7 feet long. 
Crews removed ﬁ  ve gators from the lake during the search, and ofﬁ  cials said one could have been the animal that attacked the boy.
The beach where the reptile grabbed the 
child is part of the luxury Grand Floridian resort, across the lake from Disney’s Magic Kingdom theme park. The lake stretches over about 200 acres and reaches a depth of 14 feet. It feeds into 
a series of canals that wind through the entire 
Disney property.
Though Florida has grown to the nation’s 
third-most populous state, fatal alligator attacks remain rare. Since 1973, 23 people had been killed by wild alligators in Florida, according to data compiled by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. The boy makes 24.
The grim news was only the latest for a city 
buffeted by tragedy in the past few days.
On Sunday, a gunman opened ﬁ  re at a gay 
nightclub in Orlando, leaving 49 people dead in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. his-tory. On Friday night, Christina Grimmie, 22, a contestant on season six of “The Voice,” was fa-tally shot as she signed autographs after a show in Orlando. Body of boy snatched by gator found in Disney lagoon Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Netﬂ  ix: Savoring or Devouring
A closer look at the Netﬂ  ix bing scale pg. 17Vintage Pop Up Market: 
It’s Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst vintage art market pg. 15THE ALBUM 
KICKS OFF BAND’S
EAST COAST TOUR
THIS SUMMER.
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Local Gainesville band Flat Land will 
bring its technicolor vibe to stage this Sat-
urday in its ﬁ  rst ever album debut at the 
Wooly. 
The release will also kick off a summer 
tour that will take the band members all the 
way to New York for the debut of “Arrow 
to the Sun.” In one of Flat Land’s Facebook 
posts, the enthusiasm was all too clear.
“Mom, we’re goin’ to the Big Apple!”Flat Land was founded by ﬁ  ve UF alumni 
who shared a common interest and passion for good music. For nearly four years, the 
band has worked together to perfect their 
act and is thrilled to ﬁ  nally be releasing their debut album. 
Members include: Christopher Storey, 
39, on guitar; Grant McLeod, 26 on drums; 
Ian McLeod, 30, on percussion and keys; 
Brandon Miller, 25, on bass; and Fae Na-geon De Lestang, 27, as lead vocalist and violinist. 
“We’re proud,” Nageon De Lestang said. 
“Our goal is for our audience to have a great experience — we really want people to have a good time.”
The band’s music, eccentric and funky, 
has accumulated a following in Gainesville of music lovers who ﬁ  nd Flat Land’s com-position unlike any other. 
One word that describes it?
“Colorful,” Nageon De Lestang said. “It incorporates a lot of different elements and personalities.”
Fans agree.
“The band that no one knew is now the 
band to know,” said Ken Honer, a Virginia-based fan. 
What started out as a hobby has evolved 
into something that people are crazy about. 
For Honer, one of the worst parts of up-
rooting from Gainesville was missing Flat 
Land’s live shows.
“Now I am seeing them in Philly,” Honer 
said. “Couldn’t be happier.”
Instilling a passion for music in young 
kids is also one of Flat Land’s passions. 
In April 2015, Flat Land won a $15,000 
grant to start a youth education music non-
proﬁ  t called Future Music Makers. Their goal was to introduce kids to music while 
providing them with the resources they need to explore music. 
The program has largely supported Mar-
jorie Kinnan Rawlings Elementary School, 
located in Northeast Gainesville. The band has worked closely with music teachers at the school and has volunteered their time 
and effort toward engaging students in mu-
sic. 
For now, band members are simply ex-
cited for the launch of the album and to be 
doing what they love. 
“We’ve worked hard to create the best 
composition possible and we’re proud of 
that,” Nageon De Lestang said.
Doors will open at The Wooly downtown 
Saturday at 8 p.m. Tickets can be purchased before the event at showclix.com for $8 or at the door for $10. Bands Little Tybee, a national act based out of Atlanta, Georgia, 
and Velocirapture will also perform.Flat Land to debut album at The Wooly
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Flat Land will release their new album “Arrow to the Sun” with a show Saturday night at The Wooly. 
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
Calling vintage lovers of all ages.
Vintage collectors will have the opportunity 
to look at new vintage items at the Gainesville Vintage Pop Up Market and Poole Bazaar.
The event will begin Saturday at 9:30 a.m. 
at 710 SE Second St.
 “I know people that collect and sell vin-
tage,” said Judy Phillips, the event coordina-tor. “I ﬁ  gure it would go over.” 
Phillips presented the idea of the vintage 
pop up to the Poole Bazaar, where the event will be held, and they agreed.
“I talked with the people that are using that building for their art and they were trying to do a ﬂ  ea market,” Phillips said. “They were not doing much with it as they didn’t have time.”
The event will have food vendors, which 
include Humble Wood Fire, Indian food, dif-
ferent dessert items and more.
Phillips has seen similar markets in St. Pe-
tersburg, Florida.
“I went down there and shopped a couple 
of times,” Phillips said. “I liked it a lot so I thought Gainesville could use a market like 
this.”
Phillips hopes to continue doing more vin-
tage pop-ups.
The goal is to “have it more than once a 
year but we just don’t think we can have it every month,” Phillips said.
There is a special use permit required once 
every 60 days.
“I’ve never done any events where I ar-
range it but I was a vendor at somebody else’s 
event,” Phillips said. “I’ve been a collector for 
quite some time.”
“I always liked to go to ﬂ  ea markets, peo-
ple’s houses and state sales,” Phillips said. “I always liked antique stores when I was in 
there.”
Phillips’ collection includes jewelry, small 
vintage kitchen items and vintage clothes, which she will be selling at the event.
The event is free for all attendees.Vintage Pop Up Market begins Saturday
ARTSTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
Courtesy to the Alligator
This weekend’s vintage pop-up market and bazaar will be the ﬁ  rst to take place in Gainesville. More than 10,000 people 
are interested in attending on the event’s Facebook page.
By Kirsten Chuba 
Avenue Writer
In light of the recent tragedies in 
Orlando, I think all of us are looking 
for ways to give back to our commu-
nity during this difﬁ  cult time. Below are 
some things to do this weekend where your time and money will be going to those in need: 
Beneﬁ  t Show at University Club: To 
honor the victims of the Pulse shooting, Gainesville’s gay bar University Club will be hosting a beneﬁ  t show Sunday. The event will run from 5 p.m. to 11 
p.m., with performers going on at 7 
p.m. Food, drinks, music and local per-formers will entertain throughout the night, and all proceeds will be sent to 
the families of the victims. Donations 
are also encouraged. 
Habitat for Humanity Volunteer 
Days: Habitat for Humanity, located at 2317 SW 13th St., is hosting a volun-
teer day Saturday, starting at 9:30 a.m. 
Those 18 and up are invited to sign up and help fellow volunteers build a house for a family in need. Lunch will 
be provided. 
Dragonﬂ  y Sushi partnering with the 
Ronald McDonald House: In celebra-
tion of National Sushi Day on Saturday, Dragonﬂ  y Sushi, located at 201 SE Sec-
ond Ave., will be offering a Tsunami 
roll to guests from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. The cost of this limited edition dish, which features yellowtail, crab, avocado, cu-
cumber and roe, will serve as a dona-
tion to the Ronald McDonald House of North Central Florida, which works to support the well-being of children. The minimum donation is $10 per roll, with 
all funds going to the charity.Ways to give 
back this weekend16   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
By Chase Granger
Avenue Writer
Gainesville Arts Market and Gainesville 
Arts Scene are sponsoring a Summer Indie 
Arts Market on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the SoMa Art Media Hub, located at 601 S. Main St. 
According to Txong Moua, 32, the 
director of Gainesville Arts Scene, the Gainesville Arts Market takes place on the third Saturday of every month, with each market having a different theme.
Gainesville Arts Scene is an online plat-
form sharing information about the creative and innovative people in the Gainesville community, according to its website. 
The markets are always free and open 
to the public. 
It has been about a year and a half since 
the markets began, with the majority of them taking place at SoMa within the last 
year. Previous locations for the markets in-
cluded the Sun Center downtown and First Magnitude Brewing Company. 
Moua said attendance at the markets 
varies each month, especially over the summer because a lot of college students are gone. Moua said a few hundred attend-ees are expected at this month’s market. The indie theme was chosen for this 
month’s market because Moua wanted to emphasize what it means to be an indepen-dent organization.
“We’re not afﬁ  liated with any other or-
ganizations,” Moua said. “The markets are really based on vendor input and what lo-
cal artists want the market to be.”
Moua said there are generally over 30 
vendors at each market, with a lot of new 
vendors signing up each month. 
“There’s a good range of both estab-
lished artists and college students who are just starting out,” Moua said. 
The indie market will feature two food trucks, Papa Pineapple and Soup to Nut. 
Vendors will be selling products rang-
ing from different mediums of art, such as painting, photography and mixed media, as well as crafters with handmade jewelry, home decor and clothing. 
The markets are planned each month 
in collaboration with SoMa Media Hut and Moua’s team, consisting of an intern, one volunteer and a market manager, Moua said. 
Visit gainesvilleartscene.com for more 
information about the organization and the monthly markets.
Summer Indie Arts Market hits downtown Gainesville
MUSICBy Kirsten Chuba 
Avenue Writer 
It’s summer, which probably means 
you have lots of free time on your hands. 
It’s also Florida, which means it’s raining 
every afternoon and you have to spend a 
good amount of that free time inside. What better way to pass the rainy day away than catching some of summer’s hottest movies? 
Here’s the best ones of summer (some com-
ing soon) with a little something for every-one. 
Best Comedies“Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping 
“(out now): If you like Saturday Night Live, especially the digital shorts, then you’ll love this movie. This is the Lonely Island crew doing what they do best: mocking celebri-
ties (aka Justin Bieber), getting great come-dic cameos and singing outrageous songs. 
“Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates” 
(out July 8): All-star lineup of Zac Efron, 
Adam Devine, Anna Kendrick and Aubrey Plaza on a ﬁ  lm taking place in Hawaii. Shirt-less Zac Efron in Hawaii, need I say more? 
“Ghostbusters” (out July 15): After 
months of hype, the female reboot of the 
famous ﬁ  lm is almost here. Starring Kristen 
Wiig, Melissa McCarthy, Kate McKinnon and Leslie Jones, this one is sure to knock it out of the park. 
Best Dramas
“The Lobster” (out now): In a quirky 
ﬁ  lm, Colin Farrell plays a man living in a 
world where single people have 45 days to ﬁ  nd a partner or get turned into an animal 
of their choosing (hence the title). It’s a 
drama with comedic elements and has got-ten great reviews, with 90 percent on Rotten Tomatoes. 
“Love & Friendship” (out now): A period 
drama starring Kate Beckinsale and Chloe Sevigny, this ﬁ  lm is a favorite of critics. It’s a tale of trickery and manipulation, of politi-cal marriages and affairs. It’s a tongue-in-cheek adaptation of a Jane Austen classic. 
“The Shallows” (out June 24): Blake 
Lively vs. a shark, who will win?! 
Best Action“Captain America: Civil War” (out now): 
The battle between Captain America and Iron Man has the whole Marvel universe 
choosing sides. Between breaking ticket sale 
records worldwide and having a 90 percent score on Rotten Tomatoes, it has to be good. 
“The Legend of Tarzan” (out July 1): Al-
exander Skarsgard and Margot Robbie take on the classic roles of Tarzan and Jane in this adaptation of the classic, which fol-lows Tarzan years after he left the jungle. With killer visuals and amazing CGI, this version follows Tarzan’s struggle between the jungle and his new European life, and 
the trailer hints at a violent and murderous 
storyline.  
“Star Trek Beyond” (out July 22): While 
we still have a while to wait on this one, 
and don’t know too much about it yet, if 
you are a sci-ﬁ   fan, you won’t want to miss it. 
Best Way to Get in Touch with your 
Childhood
T”he Jungle Book” (out now): This one 
has been out for a while now, but it’s still worth catching if you haven’t already. Amazing CGI really puts you in the action, 
accompanied by voices from an all-star cast. 
“Finding Dory” (out tomorrow): Need 
I say more? It’s been more than a decade 
since “Finding Nemo,” and now we get to focus on Dory’s life and backstory. We’ve 
been waiting a long time for this one, and Movie Roundup: The best ﬁ  lms to see this summer
MOVIES
From action movies to childhood memoriesTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
Attention Alligator
Advertisers!
The Alligator will not 
be publishing from
Monday, June 20th
through Friday, June 24th
The Deadline for 
Tuesday, June 28th is
Friday, June 17th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume
publication again on
Tuesday, June 28th
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
We all know how it goes: 
Our favorite show is released 
on Netﬂ  ix, and for about 13 
hours (maybe more with a 
quick food run or bathroom break), we retreat to our beds until we’ve ﬁ  nished it all. 
But as we also know, and 
as Netﬂ  ix conﬁ  rmed this week, not every show is meant for binge-watching. 
After evaluating 100 televi-
sion series across 190 coun-tries, the streaming service has discovered that some shows are more likely to be devoured (watching two or more hours 
of the show per day) and some 
are more likely to be savored (watching less than two hours of the show per day). 
Shows that “garner a re-
action/elicit emotional re-sponse” seem to be those that are binge-worthy, from dark thrillers to sci-ﬁ   to dramatic 
comedies. Netﬂ  ix said these 
shows include “Sense8,” “The Walking Dead,” “American Horror Story” and “Orange is the New Black.” 
On the opposite side of the 
scale, shows that are “thought-provoking/open to interpreta-tion” are more often savored 
and watched at a slower pace. 
Netﬂ  ix said these include crime dramas like “Bloodline,” political dramas like “House of Cards” and irreverent come-
dies like “Unbreakable Kimmy 
Schmidt” and “BoJack Horse-man.” 
So next time you are look-
ing for a show to binge-watch your summer break away or maybe slowly work your way through as a ﬁ  nals week stress reliever, take a look at Netf-
lix’s binge scale for some guid-
ance. Netﬂ  ix devouring vs. savoring 
MOVIES
By Natalie Calvo 
Avenue Writer
Halloween will come early Satur-
day in the form of Gainesville’s ﬁ  rst National Cosplay Day. 
The event will run from 8 p.m. 
to 2 a.m. at the Arcade Bar, located at 6 E. University Ave. There will be no entrance fee, but the venue 
restricts entrance to those 21 and 
under.
This is the second year the event 
has taken place nationally. There are gatherings taking place from 
Yakima, Washington, to Houston, Texas, to right here in Gainesville. 
Events are individually organized by community members and not by 
a larger national organization. 
“Cosplay is a combination of 
the words costume and play,” said 
Logan Guidry, an organizer for the Gainesville event. “Cosplayers dress up as their favorite characters from 
anime, television shows, comic 
books, infomercials and movies.” 
Guidry, 24, is known as Logan 
Glitterbomb to the cosplay commu-nity and works as a freelance writer.
There will be a costume contest 
judged by special guest cosplayer, Crystal Sorrow, who goes by the name of Doozer LaFae in the co-splay community.
The judges will select ﬁ  rst and 
second place winners, as well as a fan favorite. Winners will receive graphic novels and gift cards do-nated by Wild Iris Books. 
“We’re looking for image accu-
racy for known characters,” Sorrow said. “For original characters we’re looking for quality but also original-ity.”
Workmanship, creativity, over-
all concept and presentation are the primary criteria costumes will be re-viewed with, she said. 
Sorrow has been cosplaying 
since 2005 and is an administrator 
of Heroes United Against Cosplay 
Bullying.
Heroes United Against Cosplay 
Bullying is an organization founded in Gainesville by Erin McConnell, 
45, known as JezzabellGem to the 
cosplay community. She shares podcasts and hosts panel discus-
sions at conventions to discuss 
body negativity and provides advice to cosplayers who were bullied in regards to weight, race or sexual 
orientation.
“I started the page to create a 
safe space for cosplayers to feel like they had a protective community to 
feel safe and defend one another,” 
McConnell said.
Logan also worked on the event 
with members of the Hall of Justice 
podcast, which discusses fan cul-ture and media through an intersec-tional feminist lens.
Guests at the event can play ar-
cade games, dance, drink cosplay-themed drinks and participate in a 
cosplay photo shoot with a profes-
sional photographer.
“It’s an arcade, we don’t have to 
plan anything,” Guidry said. “Peo-
ple will show up in costume, play 
games and have a good time hang-ing out.”Arcade Bar to host second-annual National Cosplay Day  
Will feature games, themed drinks18   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
be smart.
eat local.Health
withinreach.Healthwithinreach.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients/T_han/k.end yo/u.end for your busines/s.end!Our oﬃc/e.end wil/l.end b/e.end cl/o_se/d.end Monda/y.end Jul/y.end 4t/h.end 
i/n.end o/b_servatio/n.end of Independenc/e.end Da/y.end
The deadline for submission 
for Tuesday July 5th will be 
moved to Thursday June 30th 
at 4:00 P.M. for both display
 and classified advertising.Attentio/n.end Alligator Advertiser/s.end
i/n.end o/b_servatio/n.end of Independenc/e.end Da/y.end
 CLASSIFIEDS: 373 - FIND
DISPLAY: 376 - 4482  
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Danny Pynes, born and raised 
in Gainesville, has been a ﬁ  xture on the local hip-hop scene for many years. After years of work-ing and cultivating his sound, Pynes hit it big, touring around the country and gaining fans around the world. I sat down with him to talk about his Gainesville roots and making it to the big stage. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did you 
get started?
Danny Pynes:  I was kicking 
around the local scene for a few years before getting noticed by a music group out of Orlando that helped me get out and tour the 
country a good bit. It’s just one 
of these things that kind of pro-
gressed naturally for me. Lots of shows, lots of hard work.
KC: How would you describe 
your sound?
DP: Hopefully it’s something 
unique but still accessible. I have a hard time staying inside the lines. My music is a blend of the 
things I like to listen to.
KC: What has your tour sched-
ule been like?
DP: I’m at a bit of a slowdown 
period right now, I did a good 
amount of touring in the Midwest, Colorado and in the South for the “End Of Times” tour so now I’m in that in-between period where I’m just kind of taking shows as they come and working on new materi-al really. I’m playing The Atlantic and the Top’s anniversary party on July 16 at The Wooly here in Gainesville, but other than that I’m not on the road that much at the moment.
KC: What are some things you 
like to sing about?
DP:  I’m not sure it’s really 
what I like to sing about, in the sense that there’s any preference about what I create. Just like ev-
eryone else, I sit down at a blank 
canvas with my tools and let inspi-
ration take place.
KC: Can you tell me about your 
album, “End of Times”?
DP: “End of Times” is a 10 song 
journey about life, love, youth and 
death in Anywhere, America. We released it last year in November, and you can ﬁ  nd it wherever you 
listen to music, on your phone or 
whatever. It’s there. Do a search.
KC: What do you think about 
the music scene in Gainesville, es-
pecially for local musicians?
DP: Gainesville can be a su-
per supportive music scene and has been for me, totally. I walked into a bar on University Avenue and asked to book a show and 
they said yes, and from there I’ve 
played my music across the coun-
try from California to New York, and I have fans from Japan to Iceland to South America. All of 
it comes from here. This is the 
epicenter of that, this scene, these 
people. It’s a great thing to be a part of.
Pynes will be performing July 
16 at The Wooly, for a chance to see the local legend performing at home. 
Know of any other local bands 
I should check out? Send Kirsten an email at kchuba@alligator.org.  Q&A: Danny Pynes
LOCAL ARTIST
Courtesy to the Alligator
ABOVE: Danny Pynes, born and raised in Gainesville, has found success all over the country as a hip-hop art-ist. He will be playing a show at The Wooly on July 16.
BELOW:
Pynes’ album “End of Times, ” which he released in Novem-ber 2015, features a photo from downtown Gainesville as the al-bum’s cover art.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. available 7/1/16 & 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed in-ternet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   6-30-16-4-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry....  1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        6-30-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Housemate wanted to share a lovely pool 
home in a beautiful safe area. You'd have 
2BRs & pvt BA. Female preferred but not nec-
essary. Call 352-214-6512 afternoons for more details.    6-30-6-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
For Sale - 1Bedroom/1 Bathroom,Renovated Ground floor unit, Ride the bus or bike to UFAsking $61,500352-234-3018 for info       7-7-5-5
ASHEVILLE, NCCREEK FRONT LIQUIDATIONOne Day Only - June 18. +/- 3 Acres $15,900!Seclusion, Cool Mountain Breezes, Rushing Creek Borders the Country's Best Trail System! Call Today 1-888- 270-4695Excellent Financing Available     6-16-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10LP VINYL BLOWOUT SALE!
400+ records $2-$5 (or 10/$18): blues/ 50s 
r+r / country/1960-80 artist/ jazz/big band (+ 
45s/78s). Waldo Antique Village, 17805 U.S. 301 
(352.468.3111). BOOTH MJC. Show ad=10% off 
$20+ other MJC items (except "firm").    7-5-8-10
AUCTION - LIVE &amp; ONLINE BIDDING
WEDNESDAY, June 22, 10am668 HWY 15401 BYPASS WEST, BENNETTSVILLE, SC 29512EXCAVATORS, DOZERS, BACKHOES, DUMP & SERVICE TRUCKS1000’S OF TOOLS & SUPPORT EQUIPMENTInformation or Cosign Call 864-940- 4800www.joeymartinauctioneers.com. SC2526    6-16-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
WHITE PEACE SPORT 2015
With storage, 346 miles. Asking $1000 OBO Call 409-988-1505    7-5-16-5-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     7-14-16-7-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     6-16-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191      7-14-16-7-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investi
-
gate the sincerity of the advertiser be -
fore giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
FT Receptionist (on-the-job training avail.) Exceptional social & verbal communication skills. Polite & professional. Dependable, good work ethic, reliable transportation. Work Monday thru Friday. Great benefits. melissastandridge@gmail.com6-16-16-8-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
Full time -plus over the summer
WordPress Website Developer 
Expertise in web development
and interface design
Strong knowledge in WordPress
Proficiency with responsive web design
SEO proficiency with friendly techniques
Ability to write website documentation
Experience with e-commerce
Active social media user
Experience with Adobe Creative Suite
Please forward your resume to
hr@gleim.com
6-28-16-6-14
Motorcycle Parts Personneeded Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9am-5pm and Sunday 11am-5pm. Must be a team player and have motorcycle endorse -
ment. We will train the right person but parts knowledge is a plus. Please email resume' to todd@gainesvilleharley.com    6-28-16-5-14
FT/PT Customer Service Representatives needed. Must be 18+, and have a computer with internet service and a landline tele-phone. Guaranteed at least 15 hrs/wk. Call 1(8444) 539-8735.    6-30-16-6-14
Seeking Outdoor & Sports Enthusiasts 
Sales Team Members!FT & PT Sales Positions available. Only serious applicants apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13 St (1 m N of UF)   6-16-16-2-14.PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com      7-5-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
6-30-16-3-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ATTN: CDL Drivers – Avg. $60k+/yr$2K Sign-On BonusVoted Best Fleet 2016Love Your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req’d (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    6-16-1-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERS
Earn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign On
to qualified drivers. Good home time.
Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com 
EOE     6-16-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   21 
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963      6-16-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429     6-16-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETINGThe Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville Urbanized Area announces a public meeting to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: June 27, 2016 at 5:00 p.m.PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website 
at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - 
MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     6-16-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-16-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099     6-16-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142    6-16-1-16
ACROSS
1 Alpine racing
obstacle
5 Whisks
10 Thought-
provoking
14 Arkin of “Argo”
15 Prenatal test, for
short
16 Former “Fashion
Emergency” host
17 Bug20 Industrial
Revolution powersource
21 Kilt wearer’s
refusal
22 Destructive
insect
23 Bering Sea port25 Invigorates26 Bug31 Cocoon and
Posturepedic
32 Parks in
American history
33 Cuba libre
ingredient
36 Confident37 Flags down39 Cuba libre
ingredient
40 Decorates with
Angel Soft, briefly
41 “Now that you
mention it ... ”
42 Places for French
lessons
44 Bug46 Backless
furniture
49 Pallet piece50 Put up with51 One to hang with53 Pro shop set57 Bug60 4-F’s opposite61 Intense62 Cuba libre
ingredient
63 Part of a wine list
64 Migratory birds
65 It’s measured in
inches
DOWN
1 Some square
dancers
2 Settled on a
branch
3 Zap4 Involve in a
complicated way
5 Negative decree
6 “8 Mile” rapper7 “Breaking Bad”
Emmy winner
Gunn
8 Buster Brown’s
dog
9 Ground cover
10 Deeply religious
11 Dubai dignitaries12 Link between
speakers
13 Reviewers of
academic essays
18 Atlanta university19 Scary name in
2014 news
24 Kitchen gadgets
25 Five-time NBA
MVP Bill
26 Wordless
summons
27 Do another stint
28 Couple in a
dinghy
29 Superfluity30 Moviefone parent
co.
33 Othello or Iago34 Hula strings
35 Difficult spot38 __ carte
39 Instrument panel
array
41 Cunning43 Adjuster’s
concern
44 Beverages
sometimes madefrom potatoes
45 Archipelago parts46 Relish47 Chophouse
choice48 Quieted, in a way
51 Rate
52 Reason for cold
compresses and
extra blankets
54 Chief god of
Asgard
55 Literary sea
captain
56 Large quantity
58 Sign of a canine
excitement
59 Bridal bio word
By Bruce Venzke and Gail Grabowski©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/16/1606/16/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 16, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. HISTORY: What major event in 
France’s history is marked by the year 
1789?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What European 
city is known as the City of Peace and Justice?
3. MUSIC: What is the next to the 
last note in the scale that begins “do, re, mi ...”?
4. MEDICAL: What is involved in a 
phlebotomy?
5. CHEMISTRY: What is another 
name for sodium chloride?
6. LANGUAGE: What was a bard’s 
profession in ancient times?
7. FAMOUS QUOTES: Which 
19th-century writer once said, “Noth-
ing that is worth knowing can be 
taught”?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What kind 
of creature is a pollywog?
9. GAMES: How many pieces make 
up a double-six domino set?
10. SCIENCE: What are the four life 
stages of a butterfly?
Answers
1. French Revolution begins2. The Hague3. ti4. Drawing blood for tests5. Table salt6. Poet7. Oscar Wilde8. A tadpole9. 28
10. Egg, larva, pupa, adult
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
June 13, 2016 King Features Weekly Service15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 18 Personals 22 Tickets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports"I talked to Billy (Donovan) last night. He convinced me. He did it, 
so I'm doing it: I'm changing my mind. I'm coming back. OK, that's 
not true."
- Jeremy Foley, UF athletic director, on his retirement
UF men's golfer Sam Horsfield 
will tee off in the U.S. open at 7:07 a.m. today. The UF freshman, who 
won the Phil Mickelson Outstand-ing Freshman Award, played in the tournament last year but missed the cut with rounds of 75-76. By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Three years ago, Peter Alonso 
and Buddy Reed had just arrived on 
campus as freshmen and were play-
ing video games in a dorm room.
Three regular seasons later, both 
have been drafted in the second 
round of the MLB Draft and are on 
their way to their second consecu-
tive College World Series.“Time flies,” Alonso said on 
Wednesday.
Florida’s nine-player junior class 
— headlined by Alonso, Reed and pitchers Logan Shore, A.J. Puk, and Dane Dunning — has played 
through 33 postseason games, three 
Southeastern Conference Tourna-ments and, starting Saturday, two trips to Omaha, Nebraska.
Beginning Sunday against Coast-
al Carolina, they’ll embark on their last journey together.
“We’ve done everything but win 
a national championship,” Alonso 
said. 
“We’re (going) to Omaha twice, 
won an SEC ring, won the SEC tour-
nament. We’ve just got one thing left.”
This year’s junior class boasts 
more talent than most — of UF’s nine juniors, seven were selected in the MLB Draft, and all seven were 
taken in the first 10 rounds.
More UF players were chosen in 
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer 
Aleshia Ocasio is all business in 
the pitcher’s circle. 
She rarely shows emotion on 
the field, except for one especially 
memorable moment. 
Ocasio’s defining display came 
on the other side of the diamond, 
one of the 30 at-bats she took in her 
sophomore season. 
On May 4, in the bottom of the 12th inning against Florida State, FSU pitcher Jessica Burroughs made the mistake of leaving a pitch high 
over the middle of the plate. 
Ocasio swung, and when she 
connected, her head snapped to the 
sky as she traced the seamed yel-
low ball soaring over the right-field 
fence. 
The stoic sophomore, if only for 
a moment, raised her arms in ec-stasy when she realized the ball had 
left the stadium. “I was shocked that that ball 
went out,” she said. 
“I was running hard out of the 
box because I wasn’t sure if it 
would get out of the park, but I’m glad it did. It was a great team win.”
Ocasio closed her sophomore 
season with the worst case scenario for a pitcher.
Florida’s season ended abruptly 
in the Super Regionals when a Geor-gia pinch hitter took an Ocasio rise 
ball out of the park for a walkoff home run. 
But as the Bulldogs piled on 
home plate, she didn’t broadcast a despondent demeanor. She knew 
that she’d be back in 2017 as argu-ably the best pitcher in the nation with the biggest role on the team.
Aleshia Ocasio has the potential 
to be a dominant two-way star in college softball, like Lauren Haeger, the Gator great who wrapped up her collegiate career in 2015 as the only 
softball player ever to win 70 games in the circle and hit 70 home runs. 
Ocasio will likely never be the 
long-bomb dropper that Haeger was, but she’s becoming a bigger 
part of Florida’s offense. 
“I look forward to the day when 
she’s actually going to hit and pitch 
and maybe even play some defense 
for us, too, because that’s the kind of kid I think she can be,” coach Tim Walton said.FLORIDA'S ATHLETIC DIRECTOR 
ANNOUNCED HE WILL RETIRE OCT. 1.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When Jeremy Foley first arrived at Florida, he was un-
known. 
“Nobody knew who I was or that I was coming,” he said. 
“I was like nobody.”Forty years later, he’ll never have that problem again. 
That was made clear on Tuesday when Foley, 63, took to 
the lectern to address an overflowing flock of media mem-
bers, employees and friends about his upcoming retirement 
after 25 years as UF’s athletic director. 
His checkerboard-silk coat, blue button-down shirt and 
gray slacks were in stark contrast to the red corduroy pants 
he wore when he first arrived on campus to apply for an internship. 
“It was 4,000 degrees,” he said. “... And I didn’t want to 
be here.”
It’s safe to say that’s no longer true. After working his way up from an intern in the ticket 
office to athletic director over 16 years, Foley changed the 
course of Florida sports forever when he took over the pro-
gram. 
He said that when he started as an intern, all Florida 
wanted was a Southeastern Conference Championship in football. 
When he took over, UF had won nine total national 
championships. Under Foley, Florida won three times that amount. 
He is also the only Division I athletic director to ever pre-
side over a program that won multiple football and basket-ball titles. 
He hired legendary coaches Urban Meyer and Billy Dono-
van.
The accolades can go on and on, but Foley said it was 
never just about winning. It was about winning the right way. 
He learned that first-hand SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 23
SEE FOLEY,  PAGE 23
SEE OCASIO,  PAGE 23From unknown to 
unmatched: Foley key in rise of UF
SOFTBALL
Unleashing Ocasio: Pitcher primed for big junior yearFlorida's junior class making 
most of postseason opportunity 
UF seeking first CWS title
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Peter Alonso prepares to hit during Florida's 5-0 win over FSU on Sunday at McKethan Stadium. Ocasio hit, pitched and played 
shortstop for Harmony High School 
in St. Cloud, Florida. 
In her junior season, she hit .507 
and led her team in runs scored. 
In the first game of her senior 
season, she hit two home runs and 
threw a no-hitter. 
She finished her fourth year 
leading the team in batting average, 
RBIs, runs and extra base hits. 
But Florida needed her to pitch. 
So she did. 
She pitched her way to finishing 
the 2016 regular season with the na-tion’s best ERA and a 22-1 record. 
“I used to hit a lot,” she said in 
March. 
”Coming in here and playing 
(another) role is definitely different, but I’m embracing it.”
The two-way experiment got off 
to a slow start in 2015. 
Ocasio saw limited time in the batter’s box and hit just .212 in 33 at-bats. 
But she made noticeable im-
provements over the course of her sophomore season. 
She doesn’t have enough at-bats 
to qualify for statistics, but if she could, she’d have the highest bat-ting average on the team, hitting .433 at 13-30. 
The most memorable of those 13 
hits was the May 4 walkoff home 
run.
“It’s fun,” she said about hitting. 
“It’s a little nerve-racking. When I 
get opportunities, I try to make the 
most of them. So it’s just fun to be 
on the other side of it.” 
Walton’s always hinted that he 
has high expectations for how ver-
satile Ocasio can be. 
“We haven’t even seen how 
good she can be yet,” Walton said. 
“She’s still a work in progress and a 
great work in progress.
“We’re gonna be able to see her 
hitting home runs and throwing 
shutouts."
By the end of the 2016 season, Ocasio was being called on to pinch hit late in close games.
And in the final game of her 
sophomore season, the upset loss to Georgia that cost the Gators their opportunity to three-peat, Ocasio 
scored Florida’s first run to tie the 
game 1-1. 
She created her own run sup-
port. 
Ocasio might be a staple in the 
Gators’ lineup next season. 
The departure of senior Kelsey 
Stewart, UF’s leadoff hitter and starting shortstop, will leave big cleats to fill.
Ocasio will begin her junior sea-
son next year, and Florida is antici-pating a future where Ocasio does it all. 
A future for UF where its best 
player will hit a home run then strikeout the side. 
A chance for Aleshia Ocasio to 
become a softball superstar. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgwhen Florida finally captured an 
SEC football crown for the first time in 1984. Several months later, the Gators had to vacate it because of rule violations. 
“I always thought we were 
a program that had two strikes against us,” Foley said. 
“I told my staff often: We’re not 
going down the three-strike route.”
Even after the success of UF’s 
sports program in the ‘90s and be-
yond, Foley never abandoned that 
mentality. 
“Remember, athletics can be in 
the ditch by noon,” he remembers former UF president Bernie Ma-chen telling him.
 “So we always were excited 
when noon came and went be-cause it meant we were OK until 
the next day.”
But over the years, Florida has 
become more than just OK. Foley 
credited the coaches he has hired, and said one of the main reasons he decided to retire is because of the group of coaches currently in place. 
“It’s unbelievable,” he said of 
their success. 
As for the success of Florida 
overall, Foley wouldn’t outright say that UF has the best athletic program in the country, but he’s pleased with where it stands. 
“That’s the beauty of sports,” 
he said. 
“You can have those conversa-
tions, but you can’t leave us off the list. And that’s reality.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   23  
FOLEY,  from pg 22'I always thought we were a program 
that had two strikes against us'
Jordan McPherson / Alligator 
Jeremy Foley addresses reporters during a press conference on Feb. 
9, 2015. Foley is the only athletic director in NCAA Division I history to win multiple national titles in both football and basketball.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida's Aleshia Ocasio pitches during UF's 11-0 win over Alabama State on May 20 at Katie Seasohole Pressly Stadium.
OCASIO,  from pg 22Ocasio finished the 2016 regular season with a 22-1 recordthe first 10 rounds of this year’s 
draft than in all but one year since 2000. Eight Florida play-
ers were taken in 2012, a class 
that included major leaguers Mike Zunino, Brian Johnson, Paco Rodriguez and Preston 
Tucker.
Coach Kevin O’Sullivan sees 
the comparisons, especially 
with Florida’s home run leader Alonso.
“We’ve had Preston Tucker 
and Mike Zunino and some really good hitters here, and there’s stretches that you go, 
it’s like you think he’s gonna 
hit a home run every time he comes to the plate,” O’Sullivan said of Alonso, who has four home runs in UF’s last six games. “That’s how I feel about Pete right now, it’s crazy.
“... Every time he comes to 
the plate, it’s like everybody in the dugout gets quiet, every-body in the stands (is) kinda watching. It’s just unexplain-able.”
And just as Alonso is peak-
ing before the CWS, Florida’s pitchers believe they are, too.
The Gators shutout Florida 
State in their last two games, 
and their pitching staff allowed just seven hits while striking 
out 22 batters.
Led by Shore, who threw 
eight scoreless innings in a 5-0 win on Sunday, Florida’s staff is entering the CWS with the nation’s second-best ERA 
(1.50).
“I do think pitching is con-
tagious, as well as hitting,” the 
junior said. 
“Hopefully we can carry 
that into Omaha.”
Florida’s junior class hopes 
so, not only to win a national championship for UF, but to 
win one for each other. 
One final sendoff after three 
years of elation and heart-
break, close calls and unsatis-fying finishes.
“For anyone to put up with 
the expectations that we’ve been put up with this year, if you’re not a close team and 
you don’t have chemistry, I 
think your team just collapses from the pressure and expecta-tions,” Shore said. 
“We sniffed it last year, and 
we were really close. We’re go-ing to be there to get the job done and win it.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 22Florida's pitching staff 
enters postseason play with a 1.50 ERA, second best in the nation
•   •   •24   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 2016
