We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 89 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
Too little too late
Early struggles doom Florida 
men's basketball against Vanderbilt, pg. 13
Gain insight into a bug's life with new 
study abroad program
It focuses on entomology, pg. 5
Former diplomat talks Cuban-US relations
About 100 people attended the event, pg. 8Brace yourself: Adulthood is coming
Career fair comes to UF. Check out 
the story and photos, pg.  3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Future Innovation Academy 
students looking to run for Student 
Government executive ofﬁ  ce may not be eligible.According to SG’s constitution, 
UF students running for Student Body President, Student Body Vice 
President or Student Body Trea-
surer must have completed three semesters at UF before being al-lowed to run. Only Fall and Spring semesters count toward eligibility requirements. Summer terms do not qualify.
Students enrolled in IA take 
classes at UF in the Spring and Summer, using Fall semesters for jobs or internships. IA students have the option to take online classes in the Fall, or can petition to take classes on campus if they are behind in critical tracking, said Katherine Glickman, the assistant director for the IA cabinet in SG.
Because of this, IA students 
may not meet the three-semester requirement until their junior year. Glickman said she didn’t know if IA students could use petitioned courses during Fall to meet require-ments.
“This upcoming election, this 
should be addressed,” said Glick-man, a UF biology sophomore, “It’s unfair.”
The constitution can only be 
changed during Fall elections, wrote Erica Baker, the SG supervi-sor of elections, in an email. The constitution has not been altered since Feb. 24, 2010. IA started at UF in 2012.
“We are bound by the constitu-
IA students may be ineligible for executive seats
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Brothers Eric and David Wren find 
themselves out on Norman Field every 
day.
The Santa Fe College freshmen drive 
across town to use the open field to prac-tice football drills. But that may change in the future.
David Bowles, the director of UF’s De-
partment of Recreational Sports, said a wellness and recreation center could be built on Norman Field, which sits on the corner of Southwest 13th Street and South-
west Eighth Avenue. He said the facility 
would combine health and exercise ser-vices for students.
“We want to set up a situation where 
we’re working together even more close-ly,” he said.
Bowles said the idea came up about a 
year and a half ago, but there are no cur-
rent plans other than it being a good idea 
supported by faculty members. The build-ing would take up all of Norman Field, he said.
He said if the project happens, it could 
be called “13th Street Health and Recre-ation Center,” but he couldn’t estimate UF RecSports 
considers Nor-man Field gym
SEE FIELD,  PAGE 4HE IS BANNED FROM UF'S 
CAMPUS.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After being charged with rape ﬁ  ve days 
earlier, a UF campus employee was ﬁ  red 
Tuesday.
At about 3 a.m. Friday, Eric Javonta 
Garvin, 23, drove a woman home after a 
night of drinking and then sexually assault-
ed her, according to a police report.
Garvin, who started working at Einstein 
Bros. Bagels in 2012, came into work later that day, said UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes.
The woman Garvin assaulted drank four 
mixed drinks at several downtown bars 
before blacking out at a friend’s house, according 
to the report.
She felt sick through-
out the night and almost 
threw up before getting into Garvin’s car for a ride home, according to the re-
port.
The drive was her last 
clear memory before regaining conscious-
ness as Garvin raped her on her living room 
ﬂ  oor, according to the report.
When asked what he was doing, Garvin told her he was almost ﬁ  nished before he ejaculated, according to the report.
Garvin told police he considered the sex 
to be consensual. Friday afternoon, he text-ed the woman, “I knew you were drunk. But 
I thought you were interested a little. I didn’t 
do it on purpose,” according to the report.  
Police arrested Garvin on a charge of 
sexual assault and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Monday on a $25,000 bond.
He was ﬁ  red Tuesday after missing three 
days of work, and he is banned from cam-pus, Sikes said. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org UF Einstein’s worker ﬁ  red after sexual assault
Garvin
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
AFTERNOON ALTO
William Draper, 55, plays an original song on his alto trombone along Northwest 13th Street on Tuesday afternoon. Draper 
said he played the trombone in high school and wants to get back into the Gainesville music scene.
SEE IA, PAGE 4Looking at SG constitu tion
“W e want to set up a situation where 
we’re working together even more 
closely.” 
David Bowles
Director of UF’s Department of 
Recreational Sports  Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum Feb. 13
Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games. The 
program fee is $10 per person or 
$15 per couple, and it’s free for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card and museum members. The fee includes admission to the “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” exhibit and participation in Trivia Night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. 
for this event. Trivia begins at 
7:30 p.m. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more informa-tion, call 352-273-2061.
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
Words on Canvas is a yearly writ-
ing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested in inspiring museumgoers by writing poetry or prose connected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College students are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will be 
awarded Harn merchandise, and 
students may submit until Feb. 21. This writing competition is a great opportunity for students to share their perspectives on art so that they may inspire others to look at art in different and excit-ing ways. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more information, 
please visit our website at harn.
ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an Escape-to-Monte-Carlo-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature an escape room, ob-
stacle course and acrobat show. 
The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Bridge of Spies” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free breakfast during Midnight Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees 
must be current students to par-
ticipate. Students can bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night
The Pride Community Center of North Central Florida will show “Coldwater” on Friday at 7:30 
p.m. “Coldwater” follows the 
story of Brad, a teenager abduct-ed from his home in the middle of the night with his mother’s consent. He is taken to a harsh wilderness reform facility. The teen has no contact with the outside world, and a retired war colonel in charge prides himself on breaking an inmate’s spirit 
to correct delinquent behavior. 
As we learn of the tragic events that led to Brad’s arrival at the camp, unforeseen circumstances threaten to tear the already erod-ing reform facility apart. Brad is forced to confront not only his fellow inmates and the person-nel in charge, but finally his own 
sense of what is right and what is 
wrong. Gay Movie Night is held the last Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. A $2 donation is requested to cover the cost of snacks.
A Weekend of Improv
Looking for a way to help pre-vent interpersonal violence but not sure how to get involved? Join UF’s Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for Arts in Medicine for a weekend of train-ing in theater improv techniques 
to creatively impact culture re-
garding these important issues. No prior acting experience is necessary; all majors and identi-ties are encouraged to apply. The event is Saturday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Register at gatorwell.wufoo.com/forms/interact-inten-
sive-training-registration-form, or 
email Jeffpuf@ufl.edu.
Toastmasters Meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the entomology building, situated at 970 Natural Area Dr. Everyone is welcome to attend 
and learn about Toastmasters. 
For details about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. “The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop commu-
nication and leadership skills, re-
sulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
National Society of Leadership 
and SuccessThe National Society of Leadership and Success is host-ing its New Member Orientation 
on Feb. 20 to welcome all of its 
members and get a head start on this semester’s activities. The National Society of Leadership and Success is the nation’s larg-est leadership honor society. Students are selected by their col-lege for membership based on a student’s academic standing or leadership potential. Candidacy is a nationally recognized achieve-ment of honorable distinction. With 513 chapters, the society 
currently has 557,056 members 
nationwide. The society is an organization that helps people discover and achieve their goals. The society offers life-changing lectures from the nation’s lead-ing presenters and a community where like-minded, success-ori-ented individuals come together 
and help one another succeed. 
The society also serves as a pow-erful force of good in the greater community by encouraging and organizing action to better the world.       
Latina Women’s League
The Latina Women’s League will 
host a free Bilingual Story Time 
event Saturday at 11 a.m. at the Library Partnership Branch, situ-ated at 1130 NE 16th Ave. For more infomation, contact info@latinawomensleague.org.
Condom Accessory Design 
Challenge for Sex in the 
Swamp 2016
Grab a friend, get creative and transform condoms into the next must-have accessory. As part of its Sex in the Swamp event Feb. 18, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma is hosting a condom accessory design chal-lenge. Each first-place winning 
team member will receive a Fitbit 
Flex Wireless Activity & Sleep Wristband. Teams of one-to-three current UF students must register for the challenge by Friday, and the design must be completed by 5 p.m. Feb. 16. For more informa-tion and to register a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2016/01/12/con-
dom-accessory-design-challenge.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 89
HIGH  68° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Anthony Nicotera
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 220 companies came to 
UF as part of Career Showcase.
Students had the chance to walk 
around the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center and conduct open-table in-terviews with various companies. 
Macy’s, Microsoft and Pepsi 
Co. were among the big compa-nies that came, but students also got the chance to interview with new companies, such as SynDaver Labs. The company designs and 
manufactures synthetic humans 
and plans to hire up to 60 UF engi-neering students at the showcase. 
The company is looking for 
students to manufacture the arti-ﬁ  cial humans, which are used by medical students, the military and hospitals.
This is the ﬁ  rst career fair at 
which SynDaver Labs is recruit-ing, said Chris Sakezles, a UF alumnus and the founder and CEO of the ﬁ  rm. The human replicas 
use artiﬁ  cial bones, tissues, ten-
dons and joints.  
The synthetic humans are 
made from water, salts and ﬁ  bers, 
Sakezles said. 
Sakezles said it is a more af-
fordable and ethical alternative to 
animal and cadaver testing. The company currently has more than 
100 employees. 
“We are exploding at the seams 
right now,” Sakezles said. “So we 
are deﬁ  nitely looking to hire new 
employees.”While the company is mainly 
looking for mechanical and bio-
medical engineering majors, stu-dents don’t need to be in engineer-ing, said Bill Wright, the director of operations at SynDaver.  
“As this company expands, we 
are going to need people with all kinds of skill sets,” Wright said. 
Alexander Fardella said he was 
impressed by the artiﬁ  cial human SynDaver Labs had at its table on the second ﬂ  oor of the O’Connell Center on Tuesday.
“I think that this kind of tech-
nology is pretty revolutionary,” the 20-year-old UF civil engineer-ing junior said. “We don’t need a real person’s anatomy in order to 
practice and learn.” 
The Career showcase will con-
tinue today from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
at the O’Connell Center. Brace yourself: Adulthood is coming
Career fair comes to UF
LEFT:
Students rest on bleachers 
between the first and second floors of the fair at the Spring 2016 Career Showcase in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Tuesday.
BELOW: 
Students meet with employers from companies like Aramark, T arget, Procter & Gamble, Nationwide Insurance and Verizon Wireless during the first non-technical day of the Spring 2016 Career Showcase on Tuesday. Two floors of the Stephen C. O’Connell Center held hundreds of tables for UF students and alumni.
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator Staff4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
tion in how elections (work), so that is cur-
rently the way that it stands,” she said.
Glickman said if IA students have taken 
online classes during the Fall semester, then she thinks they should be eligible to run for office.“The constitution needs to be specified,” 
the 20-year-old said. “Not everything is black and white.”
IA students must be enrolled in classes 
during each semester they wish to participate in SG, wrote Jeff Citty, the director of IA, in an email. He said there are several students in IA who are currently running for office.
“Since IA (students) can enroll in online (courses) in the Fall, and some experiential courses, they can be a part of student gov-ernment,” he said.
Andrea Rodriguez, a UF marketing soph-
omore, said she is in her third semester of IA. She said online classes taken during Fall should count toward eligibility.
“I don’t see what the difference is be-
tween the Summer semester and a Spring or Fall semester,” the 19-year-old said.
She said IA students in SG should work to 
change the rule.
“I think that we all should be equal,” she 
said. “Hopefully they do make some sort of change for IA students in the future.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org
IA,  from pg 1IA students take classes during Spring and Summer semestersany costs.
“Things get a lot more con-
crete once you have funding,” Bowles said.
He said he knows students 
would be losing the grass field, 
but he said an indoor turf would give students the opportunity to continue outdoor sports. Parking would also be en-
forced, and students would have 
to receive a pass to park at the 
facility.
“At the end of the day, we’re 
both about the same thing, and 
that is students being healthy 
so they can be successful at the University of Florida,” he said.
David Wren, 20, said he likes 
using the open space at Norman 
Field.
“This (field) is just open,” 
the astrophysics and aerospace 
engineering student said. “You 
can just walk on.”
He said he’d be OK with us-
ing a new facility if it was open 
to the public, but he would rath-er have the atmosphere of Nor-
man Field.
“I’m not for the building 
here,” Wren said, spreading his 
arms. “I feel like this is better.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgThe gym would take up the whole field
Alligator File Photo
UF junior Ashley Rocque plays flag football with Alpha Epsilon 
Phi on Norman Field on Oct. 11, 2015. 
CAMPUS
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
On the final day of interviews, 
355 students walked through the 
doors of the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom and interviewed with 
political parties in Student Gov-ernment.
Erica Baker, the UF super-
visor of elections, wrote in an email Tuesday afternoon that 61 students interviewed with Ac-cess Party and 289 students in-terviewed with Impact Party. Five students listed as independents or 
without party affiliation.
A total of 560 students inter-
viewed with parties during the 
past three days, 460 with Impact and 100 with Access. Spring 2015 
elections saw a record turnout of 
more than 800 students signing up for interviews.
Max Stein, 25, interviewed for 
a graduate seat with Access.
The UF second-year mechani-
cal engineering graduate student said he used to be a senator for the College of Engineering, but af-
ter his one-year term, he decided 
to take a break from SG.
He said he came back to run 
for Senate to help represent grad-uate students.
“I’d really like to raise aware-
ness about Student Government in general,” he said. “People should know where their money 
is going.”
Brendan Barany said he chose 
to interview for a sophomore seat with Impact because he believes 
in the goals of the party.
The 18-year-old UF finance 
freshman said a lot of his friends are involved with Impact.
“I know the caliber of people 
that they are, and those are the 
type of people that I would like to 
be around,” he said.
Blake Murphy, the campaign 
manager for Impact, said they 
saw exactly what they wanted.
“I’m excited to get the results 
of all of our work from the past three days and start to create our 
slate of candidates,” he said.
Praveen Varanasi, Access 
president, said he was proud of students who interviewed with Access.
“It was a good experience talk-
ing to (students), getting to know why they wanted to be a part of Student Government,” he said.  
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org Interviewing finishes with UF Student Government parties
DOZENS HAVE BEEN CAPTURED.
By Ainesey Foira
Alligator Contributing Writer
After slightly more than a week, people 
have captured dozens of invasive pythons in 
Florida as part of the second Python Challenge. 
The challenge, which started Jan. 16 and 
ends Feb. 14, was organized by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. It pro-
motes the conservation of the Everglades and 
encourages the removal of invasive species, FWC spokeswoman Lisa Thompson wrote in an email. 
During the commission’s first challenge, 
which took place in 2013, people removed 68 pythons in and around the Everglades. As of press time, 61 pythons have been turned in to drop-off locations for the 2016 challenge. In 
2012, UF researchers curated a python from Everglades National Park that was more than 17 feet long and weighed almost 165 pounds, 
according to a press release.
Steve Johnson, an associate professor in 
UF’s Department of Wildlife Ecology and Con-servation, said the issue of invasive species in Florida is partly caused by the pet trade.
“Sometimes animals are released on pur-
pose by unscrupulous people in hopes of estab-lishing a population that they can pull from to 
sell,” he said. Johnson said invasive species are growing 
throughout Florida and, although Burmese py-
thons have spread throughout the state, their populations are primarily found in South Flori-da. There have been many cases of people pur-chasing exotic pets and releasing them into the wild, he said.
“It’s not just pythons that is an important 
part of this issue,” Johnson said. “They are one of many introduced species that are causing 
major problems for us.” People challenged to capture pythons for conservation
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Members of UF’s Agricultural 
Economics Club will wait another 
week for approved funding from Stu-dent Government.
During Tuesday night’s SG Sen-
ate meeting, Allocations Chairman Austin Champoux (Impact, District A) said the allocations committee ap-proved other social clubs requesting funding. However, the Agricultural Economics Club was delayed for funding from the committee, he said, and will be recommended for fund-ing from the Board of College Coun-
cils, which funds academic clubs.
“At the end of the day, we made 
the executive decision to move them 
to the (Board of College Councils),” Champoux said.
During the meeting, Majority 
Senate Leader Haley Smith (Impact, District A) asked to approve com-mittee and replacement seats, which 
included executive nominations from 
Student Body President Joselin Pad-ron-Rasines, by unanimous consent.Smith also asked to approve Ro-
shelle Twymon as a member of the Information and Communication 
committee by unanimous consent, 
which Senate confirmed. Twelve 
seats remain open in Senate.
Approved by unanimous consent:
• $330 for Gator Chess Club
• $623.49 for Innovation 
Academy Lead
• $258 for Quiz Bowl
• $100 for Gator Billiards
• Maristela Soberano as re-
placement senator for Dis-
trict D
• Hannah Gardiner as re-placement senator for Graduate
• David McKibbin as replace-ment senator for College of Fine Arts
• August Jellie as replace-
ment senator for College of 
Architecture
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSG approves, delays 
funding for clubsFIELD,  from pg 1WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Levi Bradford
Alligator Contributing Writer
High Dive will celebrate the third anniver-
sary of its regular food truck rally Saturday.
Pat Lavery created the Original Gainesville 
Food Truck Rally in January 2013. The event 
featured Pelican Brothers, which Lavery calls 
one of Gainesville’s original food trucks.
The response was instant, he said. Ten 
minutes into the first rally, the parking lot 
was full of trucks with 45-minute lines.
“We knew right then it was a hit,” Lavery 
said.
Riley Hawkins, a 20-year-old UF political 
science junior, attended the rally last Spring and was put off by the large crowds and wait times.
“It was really cool to see a bunch of peo-
ple to come out and support small business-es like that, but it took me an hour to get a grilled cheese sandwich,” Hawkins said.
As of press time, the rally added three 
new vendors to shorten wait times. Accord-
ing to the event’s Facebook page, line wait 
times are expected to be about 10 minutes, 
and musicians will perform throughout the 
night.
“As a consumer it wasn’t convenient, and 
I guess the point of a food truck is to be con-venient, so I think they missed the mark on that,” Hawkins said.
The food truck rally is about more than 
consumers, Lavery said. This year, the rally will benefit Plenty of Pit Bulls, a nonprofit 
that advocates for pit bulls and pit bull mix-
es.
As usual, High Dive will also host a con-
cert during the rally.
“Come early, eat often,” Lavery said.High Dive hosts food truck rally, benefits nonprofit
Alligator File Photo
Customers wait for their orders in front of the Pelican Brothers food truck at the Original Gainesville Food Truck Rally on Feb. 1, 2014, 
hosted near High Dive. The rally drew 11 food trucks from across the state.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
REST AND RE-FUEL
Seung Woo Shin, a 20-year-old UF biology sophomore, sleeps in Fresh Food Com-pany on Tuesday afternoon. He said he came to eat lunch and was “just really tired. ”
CAMPUS
By Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
Former UF first lady, Chris Machen, is 
raising money for UF’s Baby Gator Child 
Development Center.
Machen will host Baby Gator’s fourth 
annual “Building the Love!” fundraiser 
Feb. 6 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at UF’s Uni-
versity House. The center is hoping to raise $30,000. Tickets will cost $50.
The money will be raised through an 
auction and will go toward building a pre-school playground at Baby Gator, Pamela Pallas, the center’s director, said.
“The funds raised help us provide 
exceptional care and extras for the chil-
dren,” she said.
Some of the money raised will also go toward creating outdoor classrooms at the 
Newell Drive location and renovating con-crete and plastic play areas there to have 
trees, grass, gardens and bike paths, she 
said.  
Machen said she likes raising money 
for UF’s youngest students.
“I can’t say enough about how won-
derful this day care is and how important it is to our university,” Machen said.
Taylor Gurian, a UF marketing soph-
omore, said she works as a substitute 
teacher at Baby Gator’s Lake Alice loca-
tion. She said she sees where the money goes.
“The kids always have a blast on the 
playground,” the 19-year-old said. “I love seeing the smiles on their faces when it’s time to play outside.”Former UF first lady fund-
raises for Baby Gator
By John Avery Guyton
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF will hold its semesterly Study 
Abroad Fair today, showcasing old 
and new programs.
The event will host 42 UF-spon-
sored programs and 26 non-UF pro-grams, Alexis Weisman, a coordi-nator for the fair, said. The event, which will take place on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., is expected to draw about 500 students.
One new area of study at the fair 
will be entomology, the study of in-sects, offered through a new class: 
Insects in Italy. During Summer A, 
students will study insects that carry diseases.
The class will be one of several of-
fered on the UF in Florence trip, said Jennifer Gillett-Kaufman, one of the instructors for the course. Students can take up to three courses.
About 200 students are expected 
to sign up for the program, she said, and the Insects in Italy class will have about 20 students.
The class will include tours to 
art galleries, beekeeping facilities, a vineyard, an olive grove and an or-ganic dairy farm, as well as a tour of Venice, Gillett-Kaufman said. No pri-or experience in entomology is need-ed, and financial aid is available.
According to a report by the Insti-
tute of International Education, 2,104 
UF students studied abroad last year. 
Weisman said she’s excited for stu-dents to explore their options.
“I feel we have a program for ev-
ery student,” she said.
Avery Segal, a UF history senior, 
said he’s already studied abroad three times during his time in college but wants to study abroad in Taiwan or China in the future.
“The experience changes who 
you are as a person for the better,” 
the 22-year-old said. “You can say it 
was worth every penny.”
Gain insight into a bug’s life with new study-abroad program
It focuses on entomologyThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.EditorialVindicated Planned 
Parenthood remains 
under attack
On Monday afternoon, it was announced that a Hous-
ton, Texas, grand jury — which had been convened to investigate whether Planned Parenthood had en-gaged in any wrongdoing — chose not to indict the organization. Instead, they wound up indicting the 
very people who brought the supposed crimes to light.
This winding, messy affair began last fall when the Cen-
ter for Medical Progress, a now-infamous anti-abortion organization, released videos purporting to show Planned Parenthood executives discussing the sale of aborted fe-tal tissue to turn a profit. As we noted in our last editorial discussing the furor surrounding Planned Parenthood, this naturally turned out to be a false claim. We also noted that the videos in question were found to have been heavily ma-
nipulated in order to perpetuate the center’s anti-abortion 
agenda. What’s more, several states conducted independent investigations of their own into Planned Parenthood follow-ing the release of the videos: They found that no disagree-able action, from either a moral or legal perspective, had been taken.
The aforementioned editorial was spurred on by the trag-
ic shooting at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado on Nov. 27. After the shooter was apprehended, he muttered 
“no more baby parts” under his breath; this became a neces-
sary and significant talking point in reports and think-pieces on the tragedy. Now, just as we did then, we attribute much of the blame behind the shooting to the Center for Medical Progress’ deceit and contemptible propaganda.
As reported by The New York Times, David R. Daleiden, 
the director for the CMP, was indicted on “a charge of tam-pering with a governmental record — a felony — and on a misdemeanor charge related to purchasing human organs.” 
Although the charges surrounding Daleiden concern how 
the videos were produced (using a fake driver’s license to meet with Planned Parenthood officials, creating a fictitious company, etc.) rather than the videos themselves, it is fit-ting that Daleiden has found himself indicted for the crime of perpetuating falsehoods; after all, this is what his own videos wound up doing.
The criminal indictments of Daleiden and Sandra S. Mer-
ritt, an employee for the CMP, are a much-needed vindica-
tion for Planned Parenthood. Thus far, many of the conten-
tious battles waged in Washington, D.C., this decade have revolved around women’s health and how many resources should be at a woman’s disposal. It should come as a sur-prise to few that we at the Alligator firmly believe it is a woman’s right to choose what happens to her body. Hope-fully, this surprise reversal in criminal proceedings will serve as a reminder to sexist legislators and religious crimi-nals that right cannot and will not be taken away without a 
significant fight.
It is fortuitous that this news broke soon after the 43rd 
anniversary of Roe v. Wade, which occurred Friday. Gratify-
ing though it may be to see the lies of the CMP become their very undoing in a timely, karmic fashion, there remains much work to be done. Sixteen years into the 21st century, the struggle to ensure every woman can dictate what hap-pens to her body within the full protection of the law should be an unnecessary one. The debacle surrounding these vid-
eos belongs in our history books, not in our headlines.Guest column
BDS movement is about delegitimizing Israel
Last Friday, the Alligator published a column 
titled, “Don’t be rude about BDS movement,” in which the author defended the movement that seeks to boycott and sanction the State of Israel. The column contained multiple 
misconceptions and inaccuracies.
The author describes the Boycott, Divestment 
and Sanctions Movement as “a political movement that calls for businesses and consumers to boycott products manufactured in territory illegally oc-cupied by Israel.” If the author read the official BDS movement charter, he would discover this is false. The movement calls for the complete boycott of all Is-raeli goods, whether they are produced or live in “occupied” 
territories. It simply works to delegitimize Israel as a Jewish 
state, rejecting any Zionist views. The BDS movement seeks only to end the Jewish state. The movement’s co-founder, Omar Barghouti, hopes for an Arab majority state that would outnumber the Jewish population and eliminate its character.
Next, the author argues, “the Israeli military has trans-
ferred Israeli civilians from Israel into suburb-style settlements built on land that has belonged to Palestinians for centuries, displacing residents and destroying farmland and villages in 
the process.” This is another misconception, because Israeli 
settlements are mostly built on state land, meaning the ma-jority of settlements are built on territory no previous Arab population inhabited. Most settlements are also built in areas near the pre-1967 border. Israel, being a modern democratic country, respects the rule of law. Therefore, if anyone builds on another person’s property, the owner of the property can appeal to courts. Likewise, compensation is provided to the owners in case of expropriations.
Furthermore, the future of the settlements is supposed to 
be the result of negotiations between Israelis and Palestin-ians following the Oslo agreements. Israel has offered various concessions throughout the years: At Camp David in 2000  Israel offered 90 percent of the West Bank with land swaps to compensate for certain settlements in the area. Israel also accepted the Clinton Parameters offered that year, which pro-posed withdrawal from 96 percent of the West Bank.  The Palestinians rejected all of these proposals. 
Instead, they have pursued unilateral international declarations, using the United Nations’ hostility to-ward Israel as a weapon while avoiding direct ne-gotiations with Israel on a final status agreement.
Israel unilaterally withdrew from Gaza and 
dismantled its settlements from the strip. Instead of getting recognition for the move, Israel was bombed from Gaza by the radical extremist or-ganization Hamas and other Palestinian guerrilla groups. These attacks intensified after Hamas took Gaza by force, forcing Israel to defend itself.
Lastly, the author justifies the BDS movement by claim-
ing Israel exploits Palestinian laborers. He states, “Palestinian 
laborers in the West Bank are subject to Israeli military law 
without any civil rights” and that, “workers in the illegally occupied territories have no right to sue or even bargain with their employers.” 
This is also untrue. Orders issued by Israel’s military com-
mander made Israel’s Minimum Wages Law applicable to Pal-estinian workers in the settlements. International law states that an “occupying country” is supposed to apply the law that the local population followed before occupation. Thus, Israel 
maintained Jordanian labor laws on the Palestinian popula-
tion. However, the High Court of Justice issued a 2007 ruling stating Palestinians who lived in the West Bank but worked for Israelis were entitled to the same work conditions as those provided to Israelis by the state’s domestic Minimum Wages Law, including pay and vacation days. Palestinians can there-fore use this High Court ruling to demand equal conditions — and indeed they have.
The BDS movement claims to be motivated by justice and 
human rights. In reality, it is a vicious propaganda campaign that threatens the existence of Israel by promoting misinfor-mation and defamation that serves only hatred, not progress.
However, I do agree with the author that we should stop 
being rude to BDS supporters: Instead, we should deconstruct their arguments to show what the movement truly represents.
Julian Fleischman is a UF telecommunication and political 
science junior.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Julian 
Fleischman
Speaking OutWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Campus dining is a classic 
example of a public institu-tion being tarnished by the practices of a private com-pany. It would be highly in-
efﬁ  cient for UF to manage food ser-vices, which is why the university makes contracts with private food companies to handle dining. This is where Aramark comes in. Since 1995, Aramark has been contract-ed to bring students “Gator Din-ing.” The problem: Aramark has been under investigation multiple times over the past de-
cade for labor law violations and food safety 
issues.
If the food at Gator Corner Dining Center 
ever tasted like prison food, that’s because it is. Along with patrons of professional sports stadiums, two of the biggest consumers of Ar-amark’s food are students and prisoners. Even then, Aramark has failed in the past to bring service at a level suitable for any human. Ac-
cording to Russia Today, citing local Michigan 
news sources, Michigan’s correctional facili-ties broke ties with Aramark last year because its contract “has been marked with failed performance and a range of bad behavior by employees, including meal shortages, maggots in kitchens, the smuggling of drugs and other contraband to prisoners, a contracted prison hit and sex acts with inmates.”
While prisons may be progressing away 
from companies such as Aramark before colle-giate institutions, where progressive thinking is supposed to originate, it is not entirely the fault of the administration. Aramark ﬂ  aunts its true colors when it makes contracts with schools in 10-year intervals. UF renewed its contract in 2008. This is why the university has not been able to respond to Aramark’s 
worldwide food safety violations, some of 
which occurred as early as 2010. A lot can happen in a decade; Aramark knows this.
Although UF is locked into a contract with 
Aramark until 2019, which should then be the time to sever ties with Aramark, policies can be shifted for better practices.
For one, students shouldn’t have to sign 
up for both Fall and Spring semesters when 
buying a meal plan – a practice known as Fall-Spring commitment. Ignoring the 
question of what students are com-mitting to in the ﬁ  rst place, this can only be seen as Aramark taking as much money from students as 
possible. The majority of students 
buying meal plans are freshmen, simply because they don’t know the reality of school dining before attending college. Once students who had never had meal plans be-fore come to realize how repulsive 
on-campus dining is, they are unable to drop their meal plans in their second semester due 
to this arbitrary commitment.
Another policy that should be changed, but 
is less likely to, is the monopoly Aramark has 
on food services on UF’s campus. Aramark’s contract prohibits outside venues from selling food on campus grounds. This is why student organizations can’t organize on-campus fund-raisers, from something as big as a food truck day to something as small as selling coffee on 
a frigid morning.
Though it seems as if this policy won’t be 
changed until the contract ends in 2019, it 
could be used to beneﬁ  t the one area of UF that would see improvement: the Field and Fork Pantry. If Aramark wants to control all food services, for-proﬁ  t and nonproﬁ  t, then let them. There are always leftovers from the buf-fet-style dining halls from the night before that 
are simply reused – grilled chicken becomes 
grilled chicken teriyaki the next day. Students paying for meal plans should get new meals daily, and leftover food can go to the Field and Fork Pantry. No UF student should have to rely on canned food donations when Gator Dining has leftovers reused every day because this private corporation wants to cut costs.
Campus dining needs to be reformed. Meal 
plans should no longer be a freshman mistake, and students should be able to get a healthy and affordable meal so they don’t have to at-tend their next class hungry. Although Ara-mark’s contract with UF doesn’t end until 2019, policies can be changed now to improve an unappetizing situation.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF chemical engi-
neering freshman. His column appears on 
Wednesdays.
Aramark: bad food, and evil to bootColumn
Pronounce this phrase as 
quickly as possible: “The hat rack tapped the bottle.” Now, take the words: “hat rack,” “tap” and “bottle,” 
read them aloud and sound out each individual sound, paying careful attention to how you pro-nounce the sounds that are written with the letter <t>. Did anything change?
It is likely you pronounced each 
<t> sound differently within the whole phrase, but maybe pronounced them all as a 
“regular [t]” when deliberately sounding out 
the words.
Say the phrase quickly again, and you 
will probably notice the following pronun-ciations: In “hat rack,” the sound is a quick stop in your throat. In “tap,” it is a quick con-tact of your tongue close behind your teeth. In “bottle,” it’s probably a quick tap of the tongue on the roof of the mouth, similar to 
the "r" in Spanish's “pero.”
Although this might seem totally incon-
sequential or even trivial, the pattern you 
observe is fundamental to the modern under-standing of language, namely that there are several levels of representation of language and speech sounds.
The reason each sound can deliberately 
be sounded out as the “regular t” — such as 
in “tap”— is that in our brains, that sound 
represents the idea of a /t/. Yes, we think there is a /t/ in words like “hat” and “Bat-man” because they are spelled with a <t>, but there is also a level of cognitive aware-ness of the /t/ sound independent of spelling.
In the discipline of linguistics, this unit 
is called a phoneme, and it represents the smallest perceivable unit of sound. 
This is closely related to the notion of the 
phone, the smallest physical unit of sound. So, in the case of the examples above, the three phones (the actual pronunciations) all correspond to the same psychological unit of reality, the “idea” of /t/.
Not convinced? Take, for instance, the –s 
ending which denotes third singular present tense verbal inﬂ  ection as in “he goes” and 
“he makes.” Pronounce the <s> sound, and you will discover that the ﬁ  rst 
one is actually a [z]. These two physical sounds derive from the same level of psychological reality.
Why is this important? Firstly, 
this model helps capture that lan-guage exists in our brain often in a form distinct from that which we actually speak or hear. It also iden-tiﬁ  es that, although we hear the physical phenomenon of speech, we are actually, as some linguists 
have asserted, “hallucinating,” in that we ac-tually perceive phonemes — psychological 
units of reality. Trippy.
This model can also explain differences in 
dialects within any language. In the case of 
the /r/ in English, everyone is conscious of the “idea” of /r/ in a word like “car,” but, de-pending on your accent, you might not pro-nounce it. Nonetheless, despite different pro-nunciations, any speaker of English knows what word, a different level of psychological 
reality, is being invoked.
Speaking of accents, the cases of /t/ that 
I referenced at the start of the article are in-
teresting for a study of sound variation in English. If you pronounce “bottle” or “hat” with a “regular t,” your friends might say you sound “British,” or maybe a little too “delib-erate,” which shows that these speciﬁ  c pro-nunciations are thought to be tied to speciﬁ  c 
accents and thus represent distinct identities.
So you may be quite shocked if you pay 
attention to the words and phrases you hear 
on a daily basis and sound them out, ﬁ  nd-ing the sounds that come out of your mouth are often not exactly the same as they exist in your head, although they are inextricably related.
The fact that humans can receive and 
decipher such a complex set of signals, all the while controlling the production of more speech signals all in the course of millisec-onds, is a testament to the marvel that is the human brain. 
Don’t take it for granted.Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics master’s student. His column ap-pears on Wednesdays.The 'idea' of /t/ in the English languageColumn
Joshua 
Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
ALL SMILES
Construction workers finish their work for the day and pack up their belongings at the site adjacent to Farrior Hall, now com-
pletely covered in yellow insulation padding. According to the UF Planning, Design and Construction website, construction on the addition is 20-percent complete.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
A former U.S. diplomat told students and 
community members America’s relations with Cuba could improve.
John Caulfield, the former chief of mis-
sion of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, Cuba, spoke about the new trade relations be-tween the U.S. and Cuba on Tuesday night. His speech, given to about 100 people at Pugh Hall, 
addressed economic reform, travel sanctions 
and the changing attitudes of both countries’ citizens. Caulfield was not paid for his speech.     
Caulfield, who has spent three years living 
in Cuba, said relations between the two gov-ernments are still strained, despite the Obama administration’s renewed diplomacy with the communist country.“This is not like your normal international 
relationship,” Caulfield said. “The U.S.-Cuban relationship was about divorce. Both sides — those Cubans that left, those Cubans that stayed — felt betrayed by each other.”
He said there have been recent changes 
in both countries’ policies. Americans are al-lowed to visit and send money to relatives in Cuba more easily, and Cubans now have the right to sell some private properties, such as cars and houses.
Despite these changes, Caulfield said drastic 
reform will not be possible until Cuba’s current president, Raúl Castro, is out of office.
“As long as Raúl is living, healthy, I’m sure 
things will remain exactly as he wants them,” he said. “When he’s gone, all bets are off.”
He said he thinks Cubans living in the coun-
try want a change in government.
“I don’t necessarily think this is going to be 
a smooth process,” Caulfield said. “The only thing I predict is it’s going to be different.”
Lauren Amos, a UF history junior, said she 
attended Caulfield’s speech so she could hear about Cuba from someone who’s been to the country.
“I feel like we’ve only ever heard about it 
from our point of view,” the 21-year-old said. “Like they’re the communists; they’re the bad guys.”
She said she would like to visit Cuba and 
is excited U.S. relations with the country are improving.
“I feel like it was just permanent,” she said. 
“And it’s all changing so fast, it’s just hard to process.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgFormer diplomat talks Cuban-US relations
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
John Caulfield, the former chief of mission of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, Cuba, discusses relations between the U.S. and Cuba on Tuesday in the Pugh Hall Ocora. “This is not like your normal international relationship, ” he said, comparing it to a bad divorce.
By Monica Humphries
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mackenzie Carter described her 
son Jaxson’s preschool teacher as an 
absolute gem.
Although Jaxson may not be at 
risk of losing Ms. Fern Gold, other 
students in Alachua County may 
soon find a new teacher at the front of the classroom.
Jackie Johnson, the director of 
communications and community initiative on the Alachua County School Board, said the county is ex-periencing a severe teacher shortage this year.
“This is large for us,” Johnson 
said. “It’s something that’s hap-pening statewide and nationwide.” There is a record high of about 25 instructor positions open, Johnson said.
“Unlike in previous years, where 
the needs were in special-needs teachers, even elementary positions 
are becoming difficult to fulfill,” she 
said.
Johnson said she believes young-
er people aren’t entering the educa-tion field and recruiters can’t find as many candidates. In hopes of reduc-ing the shortage, Johnson said the school board hired a recruiter whose sole purpose is to find new teachers.
“This is a very aggressive step the 
district has taken,” she said.
In previous years, a recruiter 
might see anywhere between 50 to 100 college students interested in the education field, and this year the re-cruiter only saw 15, Johnson said.  
Stephanie Gunter, however, sees 
the shortage as an administrative 
problem. She said she worked at 
W. A. Metcalfe Elementary School and taught second grade during the 2014-2015 school year. When Ala-chua County closed four schools, teachers shifted positions.
Gunter transferred to Fort White 
Elementary in the Columbia County District, where she later felt forced to 
resign.  
“To be removed from my class-
room for no reason and then hear 
there is a teacher shortage is infuriat-ing,” she said.
Since resigning, Gunter said she’s 
applied for two instructor positions online. When she returned, neither position was filled.
Gunter said she’s worried about 
how a constant cycle of substitute teachers may affect students.
“When you are constantly rip-
ping those kids away from the one person they trust, they’re not going to work hard,” she said.
Johnson echoed Gunter’s con-
cerns and said a town with educa-
tion problems may ultimately lead to 
a town with economic problems.  
“You cannot have a strong com-
munity without strong, successful schools,” she said.Alachua 
County teacher shortageLOCAL
About 100 people attended the eventWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Three arrested in Wal-Mart robberies
Police arrested three Gainesville residents Monday af-
ternoon after authorities said the group coordinated a 
string of robberies over the past month.
At about 2:45 p.m. Saturday, Michael Anthony Jones, 
24, robbed the Wal-Mart on Northwest 23rd Street and then ran from security, according to a police report.
Moments earlier, Jones and two accomplices stole mul-
tiple products from the hardware section, the report states.
As Jones made his escape, Julius Lee Jones and Essie 
Katina Cobb, both 43, climbed into a car and drove away, according to the report.
A loss-prevention employee at the store took a photo of 
the car’s license plate and later gave it to police, according to the report.
Once ofﬁ  cers found all three suspects, security identi-
ﬁ  ed them as the suspects in Saturday’s theft, the report 
states.
The employee told police the group was known to steal 
from one Wal-Mart and return the items to another Wal-
Mart, according to the report.
The suspects have stolen more than $300 worth of 
property from both stores, according to the report.
Police arrested the group on charges of fraud, larceny 
and public order conspiracy to commit a felony. Authori-ties took them to the Alachua County Jail where, as of 
press time, Michael Jones remains in lieu of a  $112,000 
bond, and Julius Jones and Cobb remain in lieu of $130,000 bonds.
- Martin VassoloGainesville man molests children, police say
Police arrested a Gainesville man early Monday morn-
ing after they said he brought three children to a vacant 
apartment and asked them to undress.
At about 3 a.m. Monday, Gabriel Leonard Tillman, 31, 
took off his clothes in front of the children and asked a 
12-year-old to touch his penis, according to a police report.
Tillman brought the children, two girls and one boy, to 
a vacant apartment. Two of the children were 11 years old, 
and the other was 12 years old, according to the report.
Once there, he tried to take off the kids’ clothes. When 
they refused, Tillman asked the older girl to perform sex-ual acts. 
When the girl refused again, Tillman began to yell 
obscenities at the children. The boy then ran out of the 
apartment and went home, and Tillman let the girls sleep, 
according to the report.
After police arrived and searched the man’s phone, they 
found a video of the younger girl and Tillman involved in lewd behavior, according to the report.
The phone number Tillman gave police leads to a bar-
ber shop. As of press time, the business’ Facebook page features photos of Tillman cutting hair, sometimes on a child.
Police arrested Tillman on charges of attempted sexual 
battery on a victim younger than 12 years old, lewd and lascivious conduct, lewd and lascivious molestation and possession of a photograph of a child performing sexual acts.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where 
he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $1.35 million bond.
- Martin VassoloFormer NFL, UF football player arrested
Florida Highway Patrol arrested a former Gator foot-
ball and NFL player in Sumter County on Friday.
At about 3 p.m. Friday, Derrick Jabar Gaffney, 35, 
drove southbound on Interstate 75 with illegally tinted 
windows, Sgt. Steve Gaskins, an FHP spokesman, wrote in an email.
Gaffney also swerved between lanes in his black Ford 
F-250 pickup truck, Gaskins wrote.
When patrollers stopped Gaffney, they smelled the 
strong odor of burnt marijuana. They later found 6.5 grams of weed inside Gaffney’s truck, according to the email.
Gaffney’s truck had several hidden “after-market” 
compartments built into it, which earned him charges of possessing drug paraphernalia, according to the email.
Throughout a 10-year professional career, Gaffney 
played for the Miami Dolphins, New England Patriots and the Washington Redskins.
In 2000, while he played for UF’s football team, Gaff-
ney received 10 charges for felony theft and was never found guilty, according to Alachua County court records. 
He was kicked off the team and later reinstated.
Authorities arrested Gaffney on misdemeanor charges 
of possessing under 20 grams of marijuana and possess-
ing drug paraphernalia, and a felony charge of possess-
ing drug paraphernalia.
Gaffney was taken to the Sumter County Jail where he 
was released on a $7,000 bond, according to the email.
- Martin Vassolo
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
RECRUITING THE GATOR NATION
Karo Okiomah, a recruiter with Stamford-based information technology company Gartner, takes a picture of 
the rest of his recruiter group next to the Bull Gator outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Tuesday. The group attended the career showcase in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center and said it saw an exceptional turnout.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-16-15-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BR
Granite counter tops, hardwood floors800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
BOAT FOR SALE
14 ft, fiberglass, 10 HP Merc. $1300. I can test drive. Mark 352-214-6426    1-27-16-2-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in 
How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
Another Saturday night without a date?
Read The Alligator.★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
In need of a reliable worker to clean of-
fices/homes/apts M,T,TH,F(after 5p) Sat &Sun(time varies) must have reliable transportation and be willing to drive to Morriston,Williston,Jonesville area...weekly pay 8.25/hr (gas will be distributed weekly)...must pass a background/drug check If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868   1-28-5-14Backyard Water is seeking vibrant and en-ergetic retail personnel for its Gainesville store. We will train you in pool chemistry. 30+ hours per week. Apply in person – 7100 W University Ave (behind Home Depot).    1-28-16-5-14
Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life. A Gainesville start-up company is looking for a co-founder. This is a commit-ment. There are great benefits if the compa-ny succeeds. No one can predict what those might be. Send contact info and resume to info@overlandats.com.    1-29-16-6-14
WAIT STAFF NEEDED
Experienced only. Leonardo's Millhopper - 
4131 NW 16th Blvd, Gville.   2-2-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Event Notices 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida softball is ranked No. 1 
heading into the 2016 season.Read the story on pg. 15.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
KeVaughn Allen’s three-pointer was good, 
a last-second, desperation heave from the cor-
ner that found the bottom of the net as time 
expired.
The freshman looked down in disappoint-
ment.
There was no celebration as he walked off 
Memorial Gym and into Florida’s locker room. 
Allen had done everything for the Gators, 
scoring 11 points in the game’s final 32 sec-onds, connecting on half of his 12 field goal 
attempts and making three of his four shots behind the arc.
But despite Allen's effort, the Gators fell to 
the Commodores 60-59 on Tuesday night in 
Nashville, Tennessee, finishing just short of an 
impressive comeback after falling into a deep hole early in the game. 
The Gators (13-7, 5-3 Southeastern Confer-
ence) ended the game shooting 32.9 percent from the field and connecting on just seven of its 22 three-pointers.
“I’m just disappointed in the miscues, espe-
cially in the first half. Did we play hard down 
the stretch? Yeah we did. We kept competing,” 
UF coach Mike White said. “We left a lot out on the floor and gave ourselves a chance late.”
Florida’s first half was one to forget. The 
first sign came when Florida center Schuyler Rimmer found himself unguarded underneath the net, only to have his layup bounce high off 
the top of the backboard and back to Vander-
bilt.
UF proceeded to miss nine of its first 12 
shots and 11 of its first 12 three-point attempts, a sharp contrast to its win over Auburn on Sat-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida swimmer wins SEC honor
Florida's Natalie Hinds was named the SEC Female Swimmer of the Week on 
Tuesday. The senior secured four wins in No. 11 UF's 192-108 win over No. 10 Auburn on Jan. 23.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
In the world of college sports, 
all coaches need to be good at two 
things: instructing and recruiting. 
With a 16-4 record and a reputa-
tion for being scrappy until the final whistle, the Florida women’s bas-ketball team's coaches have done a 
good job as far as instructing goes 
so far this season.
And as of late, those coaches 
have been getting it done on the re-cruiting trail as well. Kenny Kallina, who coaches 
the Florida Girl’s Basketball Travel Team and knows many of UF's tar-
gets, said Florida’s success starts 
with its 2016 class, which currently features four members. 
At the top is Delicia Washington, 
a standout at nearby Baker County High School who is ranked as the No. 22 guard and No. 95 overall player in the country by ESPNW. 
“She can create her own shot 
and she can score at the rim,” Kal-lina said of Washington. “She’s not a post player, but she can get to the rim.”
The Gators’ only freshman re-
cruit in last year’s class was El-eanna Christinaki, who has been 
named SEC Freshman Player of the 
Week twice this year and is having a memorable freshman campaign. 
Kallina said Washington will be 
better. 
“(She) will be one of the top 
players in the SEC as a freshman,” he said.
“She just scores the ball very 
creative, and she’s the best athlete on the floor so you put those things together and she’s just unstoppa-ble.”
In addition to being a standout player on the hardwood, averaging 28.1 points per game, Washington is also known for her work on the diamond.
After three years on the varsity 
softball squad, she carries a career 
batting average of .447 to go along 
with 58 RBIs and 116 runs scored.
She’s already talked to Gators 
softball coach Tim Walton about being a two-sport athlete. 
“He wants me to play,” she said.She’s hoping to play both sports, 
but it’s clear which one comes first.
“If my basketball coaches allow 
me to,” she said of possibly playing 
softball.
Joining her are two players of 
the same name in three-star pros-
pects Sydney Morang and Sydney Searcy. 
Morang plays at athletic-train-
ing-facility-turned-high-school IMG Academy in Bradenton, Florida, and Searcy has been committed to 
UF since she was a sophomore. Kal-
lina said that he sees her as a player similar to Florida senior January Miller.
Women’s basketball finding success on the recruiting trailAP Photo
Florida coach Mike White yells to his players during the first half of UF's 60-59 loss to Vanderbilt on Wednesday in Memorial 
Gym in Nashville, T ennessee.
Too Little, Too Late: Early struggles doom UF against Vandy
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
One recruit also plays softball
“(She) will be one of the 
top players in the SEC as a 
freshman.”
Kenny Kallina
Florida Girl's Basketball Coach“She does everything right, she’s 
got a good attitude, great teammate, 
great leader,” he said of Searcy. 
While Kallina likes what the 
Gators have done with the 2016 class, he said what UF has lined up in the 2017 class could make them 
contenders.
At the top of that class is Karissa 
McLaughlin, who is rated as the No. 11 point guard in the country. 
When asked what set UF apart from her many other offers, she said it has to do with the way the Gators play.
“That’s how I would play,” she 
said. “I mean, it’s a system I would be great in.”
Joining her are forward Mikay-
la Hayes and a duo from Ocala’s Westport High School in guard Ta-meria Johnson and forward Jalay-sha Thomas. 
Kallina said that together, John-
son and Washington would form the fastest backcourt in the country.
“Florida is playing really fast right now, but I’m not necessarily sure they have kids that are fast players,” he said.
“These two kids are fast.”For Johnson and Thomas, their 
decision to commit to UF was, like McLaughlin’s, influenced heavily by style of play. However, for them, 
there was an added layer.
“Nobody at UF has won the 
SEC championship, and we believe 
we could be the group that helps 
them,” Thomas said.
“They actually see us being able 
to because of the way, the style we 
play.”
With the players they’re bring-
ing to Gainesville in the next two years, Kallina believes the Gators could break into the upper echelon of the SEC the next few years. 
“You look at the success they’re 
having this year and then the play-ers they have coming in, something would have to go wrong for it not to continue to get better and better,” 
he said.
@ebaueri 
ebauer@alligator.org
urday that saw it connect on nearly half of its 
three-pointers.
There were turnovers, there were uncon-
tested misses, and there wasn’t much hope for Florida until late in the second half.
Trailing 52-43, Kasey Hill made a three-
pointer with 2:19 left in the game to trim the deficit to six points. 
The junior added to his team-high-tying 16 
points by making a layup with 55 seconds re-maining to cut the Commodores’ lead to six.
Allen went on to score Florida’s last 11 
points, but late free throws by Vanderbilt (12-
8, 4-4 SEC) gave Florida its first loss in its last 
four games.
“We don’t want to make any excuses. We 
had some good looks,” White said. “We were 
just facing a really good defensive team.”
Along with Allen’s 16 points, forward 
Dorian Finney-Smith added 12 points and 14 
rebounds in his sixth double-double of the sea-son and fifth in conference play.
Sophomore Chris Chiozza contributed 10 
points, four rebounds and three assists.
Florida missed the energy and efficiency of 
forward Justin Leon, who was ruled out after 
being hit in the head with an elbow early in 
the first half. Since taking over a starting role at the beginning of SEC play against Georgia on Jan. 2, the junior has made 62.8 percent of his field goal attempts and provided solid 
perimeter defense.
“We had a lot of adversity tonight. Justin 
being out, a couple of silly fouls in the first 
half, poor free throws,” said White, whose team went 6-of-10 from the foul line. “We weren’t able to overcome Vanderbilt’s defen-sive effort.”
Florida will head home to face No. 9 West 
Virginia on Saturday at noon.“You lose the game by one point, and out 
of the 10 or 15 miscues, if you limit those to six or eight, you come out of here with a huge win,” White said. “There’s a little bit of posi-
tive that you can take and a lot of things that we can learn from.”
A radio broadcast contributed to this 
report.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
Florida's 2017 class already features four commitments
Aaron Albright/ Alligator Staff 
Florida's Kasey Hill waits to inbound the ball during UF's 95-63 win over Auburn on Saturday, Jan. 23, in the O'Connell Center.
HOOPS,  from pg 13Allen scored Florida's last 11 points of the second half W-HOOPS,  from pg 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida guard Eleanna Christinaki dribbles the ball during UF's 80-72 win over Alabama on Jan. 21 in 
the O'Connell Center. 
“You lose the game by one point, and 
out of the 10 or 15 miscues, if you limit 
those to six or eight, you come out of 
here with a huge win."
Mike White
UF men's basketball coachBy Alejandro López
Sports Writer
 
Backed by one of the strongest fan bases in 
collegiate gymnastics, the Florida gymnastics team recognizes the importance of hometown support and have routinely benefitted from its effects.Since 2004, UF gymnastics has averaged 
crowds ranking eighth or higher nationally in terms of size. 
Florida’s home opener, a win over then-
No. 5 UCLA, brought 6,511 to the O’Connell Center, almost 700 more fans than the team’s 
5,850 average attendance mark from last sea-
son. However, if the Gators want to build mo-
mentum for another deep postseason run, they’ll need every fan they can get at Friday evening’s Southeastern Conference matchup against visiting Alabama. 
The stiffest test UF will have faced to date, 
the No. 5 Crimson Tide, have historically mopped the mat with the Gators. 
Leading the all-time series 70-37-2, Ala-
bama has held Florida to its lowest winning percentage against any scheduled opponent with over 10 meets contested. 
Last season, the Crimson Tide triumphed 
over the Gators in Tuscaloosa, winning a 197.400-196.800 contest at the Coleman Coli-
seum. 
This season’s rendition, though, takes 
place at the O’Connell Center, and Florida’s 
gymnasts are ready. 
“I’m really excited to be back home,” 
sophomore Kennedy Baker said. “‘Bama’s a really good SEC team, and I think it’s going to be a really good SEC meet between (these) teams.” 
And it’s shaping up to be a great one. One of six teams to ever win the NCAA 
Gymnastics Championship, Alabama is com-ing off a historic 2015 campaign.
In addition to beating UF, the Crimson 
Tide clinched a record-setting 21st berth in the Super Six, finishing fourth overall.
Against such quality competition, home 
court advantage could prove to be a differ-
ence maker. 
“Alabama is always one of the best meets 
for us. It’s a huge rivalry school, so it’s always 
something to look forward to,” three-time defending SEC Gymnast of the Week Bridget Sloan said. 
“With it being home, it’s another opportu-
nity for the freshmen to get out in front of a home crowd. It’s another opportunity for all 
of us to get out in front of a home crowd.” 
Yet, even with the stage set for yet another 
top-five battle, both coaches and athletes un-
derstand the gravity of the looming challenge.
“Alabama coming in on Friday is going to 
be great,” head coach Jenny Rowland said. “I know they always are prepared. They’re go-ing to come in, they’re going to bring their a-team.
“They’re going to be ready for battle, as 
will the Gators.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
FLORIDA IS 40-3 IN SEASON OPENERS ALL-
TIME, WITH ITS LAST LOSS COMING IN 1985.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After a heartbreaking 4-3 loss to Vanderbilt in the NCAA 
Tournament quarterfinals last May in which Florida squan-dered a 3-1 lead, the Gators have been eager to get back on the court and make another deep run.
Their wait is over.
The No. 3 UF women’s tennis team kicks off its Spring sea-
son today when it takes on the USF Bulls at 4 p.m. at the Ring 
Tennis Complex. 
And all the stats favor Florida.In 53 matchups against the Bulls, the Gators have come out 
on top 52 times, including a 7-0 sweep last season.
All seven Gators from last season’s team are still around, 
with sophomore Anna Danilina being the sole addition.
In season-opening games, Florida boasts a 40-3 record with 
its last loss coming in 1985 at Miami. 
The Gators also have an impressive home dual-match win 
streak. UF hasn’t lost at the Ring Tennis Complex in 147 match-es — the longest active Division I win streak.
On Jan. 15, the Gators had the opportunity to face some of 
the best tennis players in the country at the Freeman Memorial Tennis Championships as a warmup for team play. They were without junior Belinda Woolcock, who was participating at the Australian open, and sophomore Brooke Austin. 
“We didn’t win anything there — no trophies. But over-
all I was pretty pleased with how we competed and how we played,” UF coach Roland Thornqvist said.
“Brooke played a couple of 25k USTA pro events and Josie 
(Kuhlman) is away right now playing one, so by the time South 
Florida rolls around here on Wednesday, I’m hoping we’ll have 
all eight together for the first time in the spring.”
In late May, USF announced that Cristina Moros would be-
come the Bulls’ next head coach. Moros previously coached at the University of Texas at El Paso, where she led the team to a 12-5 record. 
Before that, she was the Academy and Private Coach at the 
Bollettieri Tennis Academy. There, she coached some of the top female tennis players of today, including Maria Sharapova and 
Jelena Jankovic. 
Moros also brought four freshmen in Nicole Dzenga, Vanja 
Klaric, Audrey Rizk and Ana Dominguez to the program. 
“I’m sure she’ll have her crew ready. We’ve seen a few of 
the players, we’ve seen them obviously at regionals,” Thorn-
qvist said.
“Sometimes when you’ve got a new coach in there, there’s 
a little bit of a transition period. But they’ll be ready, and they have nothing to lose.” 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgWomen’s tennis opens season against USF
Alligator File Photo
Belinda Woolcock returns a serve during Florida’s win 
against Maryland last season.
SOFTBALL
By Brian Lee
Alligator Writer 
The Florida softball team will begin its na-
tional championship defense from the same 
place it started last season’s: The top.
For the second consecutive year, the 
Gators will enter the regular season as the No. 1 team in the country in the NFCA Division I Top 25 Poll as well as the ESPN.com Poll. 
Florida collected 26 first-
place votes (782 points) in the former and 17 first-place votes (495 points) in 
the latter. 
Michigan, LSU, Auburn 
and Alabama round out the top five of the NFCA poll.
In addition, four other 
Southeastern Conference teams cracked both polls: Tennessee (8/9), Georgia (12/14), Mis-souri (15/12) and Kentucky (18/18). 
This marks the third time in Tim Walton’s 
11-year tenure as head coach that Florida is 
the preseason No. 1 with the other instances 
being last season after winning its first na-tional title and 2009 after winning 70 games a year earlier.
A difficult schedule will see the Gators 
compete against 14 ranked teams in 2016. 
Last season, Florida finished with a 60-7 
record, going 18-5 in SEC play. 
The Gators open the 2016 campaign 
against Illinois State at the USF Wilson-DeMa-rini Tournament in Tampa on Feb. 12. SEC play begins with a three-game series against Auburn on March 12.
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.orgGators ranked 
No. 1 heading into season UF gymnasts excited to face ‘Bama at home
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs her balance beam routine during Florida’s win over UCLA 
on Jan. 15 in the O’Connell Center.Walton
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016
GATORS IN THE PROS
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
The matchup for Super Bowl 50 is set 
between the Denver Broncos and the Caro-
lina Panthers, and three former Gators will be playing in the biggest game of their pro-fessional careers as members of the Bron-
cos. 
Guard Max Garcia, wide receiver An-dre Caldwell and linebacker Lerentee 
McCray will be playing at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, California, on Feb. 7 against the Panthers. 
The Broncos beat the New England Pa-
triots 20-18 to punch their ticket to the Su-per Bowl. Garcia came off the bench and 
played 26 snaps, and Caldwell had one 
catch for 15 yards and added one tackle on special teams. McCray didn’t record any stats while playing only on special teams. 
Carolina dismantled the Arizona Car-
dinals 49-15 to clinch their spot in Super Bowl 50. 
The game will be televised on CBS, and 
it begins at 6:30 p.m.  
Horford holding up
While no former Gators were chosen as 
starters for the NBA All-Star Game, Atlanta Hawks center Al Horford has the best shot to play in the star-studded exhibition in Toronto on Feb. 14. 
In his last 10 games, Horford is averag-
ing 15 points and 7.1 rebounds per game while shooting 51.9 percent from the ﬁ  eld. Last Saturday, Horford had a season-high 16 rebounds and added nine points, albeit in a 98-95 loss to the Phoenix Suns. 
While he isn’t a shoe-in to be one of the 
reserves for the All-Star Game, Horford has made his case by being one of the more consistent frontcourt players in the NBA 
this year. 
Noah has successful surgery
Chicago Bulls center Joakim Noah un-
derwent successful surgery last week on 
his dislocated left shoulder. Noah is ex-pected to miss four-to-six months, which will more than likely end his season. 
The former Gators center has averaged 
just 4.3 points per game this season — the lowest of his career. His 8.8 rebounds per game is the lowest since his second season in the NBA (7.6). 
Beal hurt again
After returning from a stress reaction in 
his right ﬁ  bula, Washington Wizards guard Bradley Beal was hurt once again during Monday night’s game against the Boston Celtics.
Beal was hit in the face by Celtics guard 
Marcus Smart and suffered a broken nose and concussion. Beal took a forearm to the face from Smart during the second quarter and did not return. He played just nine minutes, scoring four points on 2-of-6 shooting in Washington’s 116-91 loss to Boston. 
The 6-foot-5 shooting guard was ruled 
out for the Wizards’ game against the To-ronto Raptors and is listed as day-to-day, according to ESPN.
He is averaging 18.5 points per game 
and 4.2 rebounds per game this year.
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.orgThree Gators headed to Super Bowl, Noah likely out for season
AP Photo
Denver Broncos offensive guard Max Garcia celebrates after the team’s win against the Pittsburgh Steelers in an NFL football 
divisional playoff game on Sunday in Denver. 
