We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 111 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
Florida women's basketball 
defeats LSU
Cassie Peoples scored a season-high 
22 points, pg. 15
‘If you like piña coladas' 
Travel, drinking and sex tips for a safe Spring Break, pg. 3
TEDxUF hosts discussion event
Students talked about education discrimination, pg. 5Have a great Spring Break!
We'll be back March 7.
By Mary Kate Cobb
Alligator Contributing Writer
Alachua County Animal Services 
announced Wednesday that it has 
halted canine adoptions and will quarantine its dogs for 10 days.
The announcement came af-
ter the shelter found Streptococcus zooepidemicus, or strep zoo, and canine pneumovirus among six dogs, according to a press release.
“Strep zoo has the potential to in-
fect people and cats,” Cynda Craw-ford, a professor in UF’s shelter medi-cine program, wrote in an email. “So precautions must be taken such as 
washing hands and keeping the dogs 
away from cats until the bacteria are eliminated by the antibiotic.”
Supervisor Jane Grantman said 
she hasn’t had a similar situation. All dogs are currently on antibiotics, she said, and the shelter will reassess their health after 10 days.
Drop-offs, especially of dogs that 
are sick or injured, will be housed in a separate part of the shelter, she said. Cats are handled by different employees and can still be adopted.
Grantman said the shelter will 
provide crates, collars and leashes to anyone who waits until the quaran-tine is over before dropping off his or her pet.
“If they are able to hold their dog 
on property during this temporary closure period, we’d be grateful,” she said.Local 
shelter pauses adoptions  By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Cary Michael Lambrix dreams of nature.
He can practically see the Paciﬁ  c Ocean, a sun 
setting in the background.
Before long, Lambrix is sleeping under a 
starry sky before waking to the smell of an early-
morning campﬁ  re.
Churning water and burning timber then 
morph to conﬁ  ning walls and a ticking clock.  
In reality, Lambrix has been inmate 482053 
for the past almost 32 years in Florida State Pris-
on, about 30 miles north of Gainesville.
“But the dreams do get your head out of this place,” Lambrix wrote in a letter to the Alligator.
He was sentenced to die Feb. 11 after a judge 
found him guilty of a double homicide.
Exactly one month before his scheduled ex-
ecution, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled Florida’s death penalty unconstitutional.
As the state Legislature scrambles to make 
reforms, the 55-year-old now lives one day at a time.
“Don’t look forward and don’t look past,” he 
wrote.
      
Lambrix was born into a jagged childhood on March 29, 1960.
In a hospital in San Francisco, his 24-year-old 
mother gave birth to the fourth of seven children. 
He remembers hiding as his mother and fa-
ther argued until eventually getting a divorce.
“Then mom was gone, and I remained alone 
with the father I feared, especially when he was drunk — and it seemed he was always drunk,” Lambrix wrote on his blog, Death Row Journals, 
on Feb. 17, 2009.
At the age of 10, Lambrix lost his older sister 
— his protector — when she ran away.
When he turned 16, drugs and alcohol began 
to ﬁ  ll the void, and they did so for years.
“With nothing to hold me back, I lived in bars 
and lounges, selling drugs and consuming the 
proﬁ  ts,” he wrote on his blog.From death row: the hope for freedom
A local inmate reaches out
SEE INMATE,  PAGE 4
HE WILL THEN SELL HIS
ARTWORK FOR $200.
By Fresia Urdaneta 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A man will stare into the depths 
of a politician’s mouth today. 
Writer, musician and artist Tom 
Miller will stare into a large print of Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz’s mouth from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Hardback Cafe today, ac-cording to a press release. 
“I’ve been obsessed with Ted 
Cruz’s mouth for some time now,” 
Miller said. “It’s perplexing to me.”
At 10 p.m., he will unveil “Ted 
Cruz’s Mouth,” a $200 acrylic paint-
ing that Miller said he created to ﬁ  gure out why Cruz’s mouth turns downward when he smiles. Miller said his show is meant to engage, entertain and challenge people. 
“The lines between reality and 
TV reality are blurred,” he said. “We need to take these two hours to re-ally think.”
The performance is part of his 
ArtWalk Gainesville exhibition, “Tom Miller’s Political Animals,” which includes paintings from his “Eating Animals” series. The works depict an image of animals eating each other, but with the decency to at least use silverware, according to the release. In his mind, the animals represent the way people currently participate in politics. 
Hardback Cafe owner Alan Bush-
nell said he asked Miller to perform after years of friendship. Bushnell said he hopes today encourages oth-er artists to attend the next ArtWalk.
“I’m looking forward to seeing 
the complete set of work,” he said. “I really don’t know what to expect.”
Artist to stare at Ted Cruz’s mouth for two hours  LOCAL
BRADLEY BUSTS A MOVE 
Soul singer and Gainesville native  Charles Bradley performs on 
the Bo Diddley Community Plaza mainstage at the reopening concert on Thursday night. See the photo story on pgs. 8-9.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
T ed Cruz’s mouth
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Dragon Rises College Open 
House
In conjunction with UF Health and 352Creates, the Dragon Rises College of Oriental Medicine 
will have an open house today 
from noon to 5 p.m. Our focus is nourishing the mind, body and spirit through food, move-ment (Qigong), herbs, acupunc-ture modalities and art (brush painting).  Additional informa-tion and a list of events can be found on the Dragon Rises 
College Facebook page. We are 
situated at 1000 NE 16th Ave., Building F.  Please give us a call at 352-371-2833 or email info@dragonrises.edu if you have any questions.
Curator talk: the art of Michael 
Kenna
Join Carol McCusker, the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art’s curator of photography, in the exhibition “Michael Kenna: Haiku” for an examination of Kenna’s process and intentions that have gener-ated a specific meditative style. Appreciative of Japanese culture, acclaimed photographer Michael 
Kenna photographs landscapes 
and familiar cities through a simplified lens. Finding dramatic angles, evocative atmospheres and times of day, Kenna’s lyri-cal images express a unique re-sponse to Paris, rural Ireland, and much more — a Zen-like beauty emerges. The talk will be 
held at the Harn on Sunday at 3 
p.m. Parking and admission are free. Questions? Contact eking@harn.ufl.edu.
Florida Museum hosts Can You 
Dig It? on March 12Discover the earth at your feet during this free, fun-for-all-ages 
geology event. Enjoy hands-on 
activities from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., and watch demonstrations of volcanic eruptions. Presented in part by the UF department of geological sciences. For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/canyoudigit or call 352-273-2064.
Apply Now for 2016-17 Financial 
AidTo apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of your FAFSA from 
the federal processor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure that the federal pro-cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first come, first served basis so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. In order for UF Student 
Financial Affairs to consider you 
for a financial aid package, you must be an admitted student and have met the “On-Time” dead-line. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or con-tact your financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 111
HIGH  63° LOW  34°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
SALES REP
OF THE MON TH
FEBRUARY 2016
CAROLINE RHOADES
major: adv ertising
CONGRA TULATIONS!
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
‘If you like piña coladas’
Drinking Tips
 Determine in advance the total number of 
drinks you will drink, and do not exceed that number.
 Never leave your drink unattended.
 Eat a meal before drinking, preferably with protein, and snack throughout the night. Drink water in between drinks. Do not mix alcohol with energy drinks or consume caffeinated alcoholic beverages.
 Use a sober designated driver, or have a plan for how you will get home.
 “If you see a friend passed out and not responsive, it’s a sign of alcohol poisoning,”  said Natalie Rella, a GatorWell health promotion specialist. “Call 911, and don’t let them sleep it off.”
Travel Tips
 If traveling abroad, be aware of international laws and regulations.
 Be aware of your surroundings, and keep your phone charged for emergency calls or texts.
 Share your contact information and plans, and check in with your friends every 20 to 30 minutes. Enter important numbers (i.e., cab companies/shuttles) into your phone. Down-load apps like Uber or Lyft before traveling.
 “The general safety rules that we tell the stu-dents apply wherever you are,” said Universi-ty Police Sgt. Jeff Lamb. “The most important one is to be aware of your surroundings, and don’t be a victim.”
 - Tips from GatorWellSex Tips
 Remember to use a condom when you are sexu-ally active — every time.
 The more alcohol you consume, the lower your ability is to legally receive or give consent to have sex.
 Know your sexual health status, and get tested before and after Spring Break. Sexually trans-mitted infections are often asymptomatic. Not knowing your partner’s sexual history may put you at risk. Do not trust someone you just met to be honest about his or her sexual history.
 Emergency contraception is regularly available in the U.S. but may not be in other countries.
 “Sex is ﬁ  ne. Sex is good. Sex is encouraged,” Rel-la said. “But be safe every time. Use a condom.” •   •   •
It started with dinner.
On Feb. 5, 1983, Lambrix and his room-
mate, Frances Smith, invited a couple to eat in a LaBelle, Florida, trailer after meeting them at a bar.
Aleisha Bryant, 19, waited in the trailer for 
20 minutes after Lambrix asked her friend, Clarence Moore, 35, to step outside, according to a case report. Lambrix then beckoned for Bryant. Less than 45 minutes later, Lambrix returned, wielding a tire iron and wearing a bloody shirt, according to the report.
Bryant had been strangled, and Moore had 
suffered a fatal blow to the head. Lambrix told 
Smith, who then helped bury the bodies, ac-
cording to the report. They threw his shirt and weapon in a nearby stream.
About a year later, police charged Smith 
for an unrelated incident, and she told them about killing the couple, according to the re-port. Lambrix was already in jail for passing fraudulent checks, and after his first trial ended 
in a hung jury, the second trial convicted him 
of murder, he wrote.
Later that night, he braided a sheet, hung it 
from the cell bars and weighed his options be-fore falling asleep. When he awoke, the sheet still dangled from the bars.
“Sometimes I still regret not following 
through. But I’m over it,” he wrote.
Though he still maintains innocence, Lam-
brix wrote he thinks about Bryant and Moore’s families, along with his desire to be forgiven.
In his book, “To Live and Die on Death 
Row,” Lambrix recounted his version of the Saturday two people lost their lives.
He wrote that Moore strangled and killed 
Bryant, so he picked up the tire iron and killed Moore in self-defense.
“No, I don’t ‘think’ I’m innocent — I know 
that I am innocent of any crime of murder and anyone capable of objective review of the evi-dence will agree,” he wrote in the letter.
•   •   •What do Ted Bundy and Michael Lambrix 
have in common?
They both have pleasant faces, eloquent 
vocabularies and plausible stores, said George Dekle, who helped put serial killer Bundy in 
jail. However, neither is innocent, he said.
“It’s a whole lot easier to establish some-
one’s innocence on a website than it is in a 
courtroom,” said Dekle, a criminal prosecutor for nearly 30 years.
Lambrix could not have acted in self de-
fense, he said, because one hit from a tire iron would have left Moore unconscious rather than dead.
Amid the accusations, Lambrix remains 
hopeful as the Florida Legislature rewrites the state’s death penalty laws.
He dreams of freedom, the open road and 
the ocean.
“You live in that moment and do what it 
takes to get your head out of this place the best you can,” he wrote.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgBy Molly Donovan 
and Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
Curt Guyette, the journalist who broke the 
Flint, Michigan, water crisis, spoke to UF stu-dents Thursday.
Guyette, an investigative journalist for the 
American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan, 
discussed his involvement with exposing lead 
poisoning in Flint. About 70 students listened in Gannett Auditorium as he talked about his two-and-a-half-month investigation of Flint’s water.
He covered emergency management for 
ACLU, he said. They later asked him to in-vestigate emergency managers in Flint. While inspecting the city, it quickly became apparent 
that the rust-colored water wasn’t healthy.
“The water didn’t look good, it didn’t smell 
good; it didn’t taste good,” he said.
The city, looking to save money, began us-
ing water from the Flint River in April 2014, 
he said.  The river’s high salt concentration and pollution-corroded pipes contaminated the supply with lead.
Guyette said he helped publish an initial 
report on the crisis, but city officials said the water was safe.
Meanwhile, residents of Flint protested the 
water, which contained carcinogens and E. coli and caused rashes.
“The residents just wanted to know what 
was going on,” he said.  
He said some didn’t take his report seri-
ously because he was hired by the ACLU and 
not a traditional news outlet.
“In some ways, I am exploring new terri-
tory as a journalist,” he said.
UF journalism master lecturer Mike Foley 
said Guyette came to Gainesville to speak at 
the frank2016 communications conference. Foley said he wanted to expose his students to investigative journalism in his reporting class.
“I think he’s a modern-day crusader,” Fol-
ey said. “We need more investigative projects, and I feel that the cost and the time involved will curve that.”
Stacey Marquis, a UF journalism graduate 
student, said she was inspired by Guyette’s reporting.
“I didn’t realize how painstakingly he kind 
of went through to get that to come to light,” Marquis said. “The way that he went door-to-
door and did that traditional journalism was 
inspiring for me.”4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
INMATE,  from pg 1Lambrix has been in prison for almost 32 yearsCatherine Dickson / Alligator
Curt Guyette, an investigative reporter for the American Civil Liberties Union of 
Michigan, speaks to UF students in the Gannett Auditorium on Thursday. Guyette discussed his work during the Flint water crisis.
LOCAL
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Supporters of Hillary Clinton are getting 
their own space.
On Sunday, the Hillary for America 
Gainesville office will open at 1731 NW Sixth 
St. From 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m., it will open its 
doors for volunteers, activists and supporters 
of Clinton, a Democratic presidential candi-date.
Susan Bottcher, 57, a local volunteer for the 
Clinton campaign, said a Gainesville couple donated the office. The office gives support-ers of Clinton a place to gather in support, she said.  
“It makes it real for the citizens,” she said. 
“It’s something they can see, it’s someplace they can go.”
Caroline Stonecipher, 22, said the office will 
be a place for Gators for Hillary, a UF student organization, to call registered Democrats in Alachua County.
Stonecipher, the president of Gators for Hill-
ary, said she would have members make calls from her sorority house, but it was difficult for 
non-student supporters to get to meetings.
With an established location, she said they 
can host fundraisers, meetings and debate 
watch parties.
“It’ll be really nice to have an office where 
we can do it without bothering anyone,” the UF psychology senior said. “It’s sort of legiti-mizes our efforts.”
Stonecipher, who will be attending a Bill 
Clinton rally in Miami during the office’s grand opening, said she believes this upcoming presi-dential election will be important.
“I just think that there’s a lot of work that 
needs to be done,” she said, “and I think that Hillary will move us in the right direction.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgClinton 
office to open in GainesvilleFlint water crisis reporter speaks at UF
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is Michael Lambrix as a young 
man posted on his blog “Death Row Jour-nals. ” Lambrix has been on death row awaiting execution for almost 32 years.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Collegiate Skate Tour is coming to 
Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time Saturday af-
ternoon.
Director Keegan Guizard, a 25-year-old 
North Carolina State University graduate, 
said college students compete in the tour 
and motivate younger attendees to follow their academic goals. 
FreeRide Surf and Skate Shop, situated 
at 420 NW 13th St., will host registration 
for the tour’s Miniramp Mania at noon, ac-
cording to a press release.
Registration is $10 and the event, which 
is free for spectators, will run from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., according to the release. 
Guizard launched the program in Oc-
tober 2012, and this year he collaborated with the Gator Skateboarding Club to bring the tour to Gainesville. 
The laid-back event attracts college stu-
dents who are not able to make big time commitments, said Clay Helms, president of the skateboarding club.
In past years, the tour has visited places 
such as Tampa, New Hampshire and New York City, he said.
Christopher Arellanes, a past competi-tor, said he usually makes it to the semi ﬁ  -nals before younger competitors dash into the lead. 
He said kids see the skating community 
competing for their school, and that in-spires them to further their education.
“We see a lot of kids that choose schools 
because they have a skateboarding club,” Arellanes said.Miniramp Mania to promote competition, education Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
T alal Almutairi, an 18-year-old UF English Language Institute stu-
dent, talks with his friends during UF’s celebration of National Ku-wait Day on Turlington Plaza on Thursday. Read our coverage of the event online at alligator.org. 
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Engineering Leadership In-
stitute will focus on women’s leader-
ship this year.
The summit is partnering with 
the Committee of 200 for the March 
8 event. The committee is made up 
of the world’s most successful female entrepreneurs and corporate innova-tors, said Franklin “Buster” Hagen-beck, the director of the Engineering 
Leadership Institute.
Linda Hudson, a speaker in C200, 
recommended that the committee 
and UF partnership after she spoke last year, he said. 
The summit will include three 
female keynote speakers and three panels, which will discuss innova-tion and diversity in science, technol-ogy, engineering and mathematics, 
Hagenbeck said. UF’s Student Lead-
ership Advisory Board, a group of students who represent different de-partments and student organizations, chose the questions, he said.  
“Students come up with the ques-
tions for the speakers themselves, because they know what would be most beneﬁ  cial for the Student Body, in terms of hearing their expertise,” 
Hagenbeck said.
Melissa Franklin, a 21-year-old UF 
biomedical engineering junior, said 
she will attend. She said she thinks UF’s College of Engineering is diverse compared to other schools.  
In the past, men have been more respected in the workplace than women, Franklin said. She said she hopes the conference encourages 
women to be leaders.
“I think it will give me insight as 
a young professional of how to deal 
with the current standing of the in-dustry, especially in my ﬁ  eld, which can be really male-dominated,” she said.
College of Engineering summit seeks to empower womenSTUDENTS DISCUSSED 
EDUCATION 
DISCRIMINATION.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
TEDxUF led an event that ad-
dressed discrimination against mi-norities in higher education Thurs-day night.
About 30 students met in Stuzin 
Hall to watch the TEDx video “How we’re priming some kids for college — and others for prison” by sociolo-gist Alice Goffman. They later spoke about how it related to them.
“This is a pop-up event leading 
up to TEDxUF,” said Mina Robin-son, a 20-year-old UF advertising sophomore and a TEDxUF event 
coordinator. “This is like a teaser, 
kind of.”
TEDxUF and Teach for America partnered for their second event this academic year. Chanel Cochran-Moore, a recruitment manager for Teach for America, met Robinson last fall at a Teach for America event.
“I would love to continue these 
conversations once a semester, at least,” Cochran-Moore said. “If 
you can bring these talks to college 
campuses, you can bring effective change.”
Laura Uribe, a UF political sci-
ence freshman, said she learned from the other students in the class-room about the opportunity gap mi-norities face.
“This opened my eyes to other 
perspectives,” the 18-year-old said.
Uribe, a ﬁ  rst-generation college 
student, said she has had more op-portunities living in the U.S. than her parents did abroad.
“I have so many more oppor-
tunities than my parents had in Colombia,” she said. “My parents pushed me even though they never experienced college.”
William Johnson, a UF mechani-
cal engineering senior, said his par-ents expected him to go to college.
“My parents went to college,” 
the 23-year-old said. “I grew up knowing I was going to college. It 
was just an expectation.”
Cochran-Moore said she no-
ticed discrimination in classrooms 
as a high-school teacher in Atlanta. She taught as part of the Teach for America program from 2013 to 2015.
“So many things could be 
changed if education was a little 
more equal amongst everybody,” 
she said. “Through these conversa-tions you get to see how important education is.”
@MerylKornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org TEDxUF hosts discussion event
LOCALThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Bear with us, fellow Gators: one more day. One more 
long, uncomfortably-balmy-considering-it’s-almost-March 
Friday afternoon, and we’ll all be free — at least for the 
next week. 
If you’re as exhausted as we are, Spring Break couldn’t 
be coming soon enough. Whether you’re planning on kick-
ing back at home, lazing around at the beach or traveling 
the world on a cruise ship, we wish our readers nothing but 
safe travels and drunken relaxation. With that in mind, it’s time for a sunny, relaxing, beachside-with-a-piña-colada-in-hand edition of…
Darts & Laurels
First of all, we’d like to give a big screw-you shoutout 
to all of the teachers evil enough to make papers, projects, exams and the like due this afternoon. If you, like some of 
us, have an essay due at 5 p.m. the first unofficial day of 
Spring Break, our deepest sympathies go out to you. 
Although, perhaps the only thing worse is the profes-
sor who decides the Monday we return from a week of 
debauchery (or perhaps rest) would be the perfect day to 
have a midterm. Truly, if your Spring Break is at all tainted by an impending due date or exam, we are sorry. A Dart  
to the professors who just can’t quite let us enjoy our one 
week to ourselves.
This week in national news came with plenty of highs 
and lows. One entity we’re actually pretty impressed with is Apple. When the FBI submitted a demand to the com-pany to create a sort of “back door” into the easily break-
able yet still beloved iPhone, Apple gave them a big fat No, 
with a capital “N.” 
The company has now filed a motion to dismiss the 
government’s request altogether. What’s more, Google and Facebook have now joined forces with Apple to oppose 
the request. To Apple, Google and Facebook we give a 
you’ve-got-guts Laurel for protecting our privacy.
We pretty much covered our stance on animals in 
Thursday’s editorial. Here at the Alligator, we love animals 
of all shapes, sizes and textures, which is why, obviously, 
we don’t have particularly warm or fuzzy feelings toward SeaWorld (#freethewhales). 
But now we’re particularly angry, seeing as SeaWorld’s 
chief executive admitted Thursday that employees have 
been posing as activists in order to spy on animal-rights 
groups. 
Sure, the dude said SeaWorld would stop spying on 
animal activists now, but to us, that’s too little, too late. 
As far as spying goes, we’re pretty adamant that it clearly 
shouldn’t have happened in the first place. So here’s a Dart 
to SeaWorld for both spying on activists and for being all-
around terrible.
Now that we’ve covered a few morally ambiguous peo-
ple, let’s all take a moment to give a big thanks to the college-town heroes of midterm season: the coffee baristas and delivery people. 
Seriously, y’all are the real MVPs, fighting hunger and 
sleep deprivation, delivering food at 3 a.m. and getting up at the crack of dawn to make coffee for us students who look like we just crawled out of a gutter. Remember, folks, not all heroes wear capes — sometimes it’s just a simple shirt with a Midnight Cookies logo. Here’s a Laurel to our 
hunger-fighting, late-night-driving, sleep-sacrificing mid-
term heroes.The opportunity to catch up over Spring Break
I remember a conversation I had with a friend at the beginning of this semester. “I feel like before we know it, it’ll be 
time for midterms, and I’ll be behind,” 
she told me. I’ve always been suspicious 
and terriﬁ  ed of secretly being an optimist, but now, I’m almost certain I am. After she 
said that, I immediately thought to myself, 
“Nah, no way.”
Well.Here we are in the eighth week of the semester. Be-
lieve me, I don’t particularly enjoy bringing this up, but 
I thought we could all share in the misery of realizing 
we’re at the halfway point in the semester.
And seeing that this week of midterms can only be 
followed by an even greater slew of exams just over the 
horizon, I think it’s good to remind students there is 
now virtually no possibility of catching up.
Oh, nevermind: Next week is Spring Break.Yes, it’s come at an ungodly and early time this year, 
but by the time this column reaches newsstands, a 
good portion of the Student Body will already be off for 
Spring Break. And for those of you still with us today — but hopefully soon going off to venture into some for-est, a crowded beach, an exotic country or your parents’ 
place — I’d like to remind you to spend some of your 
time catching up.
To give you a personal example, my aforementioned 
friend and I have been planning, since that conversa-tion, on catching up over coffee or ice cream and still 
haven’t. I certainly don’t think she’s to blame, nor do 
I think she believes I am, but between all our attempts to catch up on lecture notes, papers, practice problems, etc., we hadn’t caught up with each other. And as I 
noted, this is only one example.
“So now what?” you might be thinking. “I’m not only behind in my classes, but also with keeping 
up with my friends’ lives? Not only that, but I’ve only got half a semester left?” 
No, that’s not my point. Sometimes life 
gets in the way, sometimes we have to push life out of the way and sometimes — more speciﬁ  cally, annually — we go on Spring 
Break.
Spring Break is an unusual privilege. Like 
Summer Break, it’s one of those rare, extend-
ed breaks from the daily grind of work that don’t really 
seem to occur for adults in the U.S. after age 23 — al-
though this is the case for many adults in Europe or 
Latin America. We can take that time to breathe, have a genuine moment of self-reﬂ  ection, consider how we’ve been doing in the past few weeks and possibly recon-
sider what we’ll do in the next few weeks — all this in 
the company of our family and friends. In other words, it’s a chance to catch up.
We need this before we get back to the deadlines of 
daily life or the feeling we’re always behind on one as-
signment or another. But Spring Break has one unique 
quality, something that makes it a uniquely college — or at least, early childhood to young adulthood — ex-perience: During Spring Break, we’re given unadulter-
ated time. Time to pull back and consider what we truly 
want — not what we believe we need to accomplish or what we believe we want to do. 
But the point also isn’t to ﬁ  gure out your future in 
10 days. Spring Break is to college what college is to 
the rest of your life: a time to start learning how to pri-
oritize what’s most important to you, so you can apply those priorities to your daily life. And I emphasize “to start” — or in other words, to begin catching up.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sophomore. His column 
appears on Fridays
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Pirates have been around 
for more than 2,000 years. From the olive coasts 
of ancient Greece to the 
years of Viking dominance 
from A.D. 500 to A.D. 1050 and far beyond the classic bearded 
fellows of the Caribbean in the 
18th century, the act of piracy is not new. Items of signiﬁ  cant value will always have a market; it’s just that not everyone in the market will want 
to pay.
With the exponential evolution of tech-
nology — speciﬁ  cally the Internet — a dif-
ferent type of piracy has washed up on the 
shores of our culture. Gone are the days 
of looting passing ships for luxurious trea-sure chests, overﬂ  owing with gold bullions and precious metals. The new treasure is not found below deck in a trunk: In fact, 
it’s not even physical. Pirates are no lon-
ger scraggly-looking bands of bandits, but instead look the same as you and me. They sit next to us in class, ride the same buses 
as we do and pass us by each and every 
day. They don’t want too much, just an occasional free movie and album here and there. That doesn’t hurt anyone, does it?
Well, it does when millions engage in 
this behavior.
This past week, the coveted treasure was 
Kanye West’s long-awaited album, “The Life of Pablo.” Within the ﬁ  rst 48 hours of 
it streaming through Tidal, the album was 
reported to have been illegally downloaded more than 500,000 times.
The public’s view of West seems to be 
either extremely negative and critical or 
absolutely obsessed and admiring. Kanye 
is Kanye, and that’s all that matters. How-ever, I cannot help but feel bad for him, or any artists who have their work stolen.
The government is unable to catch or 
prosecute everyone who downloads media illegally, as there are simply too many peo-ple who do so. Combined with the fact that movies and albums online are seemingly 
inﬁ  nite — anyone can download them, and 
they’ll never run out of options — it’s easy to see why millions view piracy as the best option. Why pay when you can still get 
what you want with no consequences?I can think of a few reasons. 
For one, I think of the concept 
of utilitarianism, the idea that “a 
morally good action is one that 
helps the greatest number of people.” Pirating an album helps the listener and the listener only. 
When I purchase an actual CD, I 
like that I am not the only person beneﬁ  tting from the transaction. 
This may be lame and overly economical, but I like that the store, the record company 
and the artist are all beneﬁ  tting when I pur-
chase their good. Even if the artist only gets a few cents from me, it is still compensa-tion for providing enjoyable music and part 
of an incentive to continue his or her work.
Ninety-nine percent of the time, artists 
don’t even seem to ﬁ  ght back. There have 
been rumors that Kanye is planning on suing Pirate Bay, a website of free mate-
rial, but I’m afraid that is not going to do 
anything. Even when Internet pirating was in its infantile stages, when Metallica took Napster to court, it did nothing to curb the 
practice. Is this issue just a lose-lose for 
business that everyone has simply grown to accept?
I can see a substantive counter-argu-
ment. These sites allow for an overall larg-
er audience and distribution of an album, 
which could ultimately lead to a larger fan base, resulting in more ticket sales and pro-motion for the artist. However, I ﬁ  nd this 
argument based on too many assumptions 
regarding the behavior of consumers. Oc-cam’s razor, the principle that the more as-sumptions an argument contains, the worse said argument is, can take care of this one. 
Consumer behavior is often predictable, 
though I believe consumers will predictably opt for free stuff a majority of the time.
Artists are essentially defenseless, leav-
ing these seemingly minor judgment calls in the hands of us consumers. These pirat-ing websites are not the modern equivalent to Robin Hood — stealing from the wealthy and distributing it among the poor — but 
rather illegal channels of exchange that rob 
artists of their own work.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore. 
His column usually appears on Thursdays.Internet piracy has consequencesColumn
I was talking to Dan on Tinder. A witty back and forth. I’m good at that. We were joking 
about a Greek myth. “So,” he 
writes. “Can I ask you a ques-
tion?”
I lock my phone screen, in-
hale and exhale. “Don’t even re-spond,” I tell myself. “You know where this is going.”
I remember all of them vividly: There’s 
no rulebook on how to set up a dating app 
proﬁ  le when you’re two months out of che-
motherapy.
Sufﬁ  ce it to say, when a guy now leads 
up to asking me “a question” on Tinder, I 
recoil. It’s been seven months now since I 
stopped treatment. My proﬁ  le says nothing, but all it would take would be a quick peek at my Instagram to ﬁ  gure out why I have a cropped haircut. So I let him ask.
“Finger painting or watercolors?” That’s 
it.
Am I relieved?Every day in the mirror I see the ghost 
of a thinner, wavy-haired version of myself. By 19, I realized cancer had been slowly de-stroying my body for two years and moved home to undergo six months of brutal treat-ment. I see these experiences everywhere, 
but I don’t look like a St. Jude Children’s 
Research Hospital commercial anymore. Grasping that people don’t automatically notice I’m a cancer survivor has been dif-
ﬁ  cult to process.
I wear my survivorship proudly, but dat-
ing becomes difﬁ  cult. The ﬁ  rst guy I kissed 
after treatment was someone I had known from before but ran into at a bar. I was 
wearing my wig. I told him I wouldn’t go 
home with him. My recent breakup wasn’t a decent enough reason to him. Only telling him I was just out of chemotherapy stopped 
his persistence in his tracks.
I’ll answer anyone if they ask, but I’ve 
been in desperate need of a break.
Josh and I texted for two weeks before 
we met, and it never came up. We met at a bakery, and I let him tell me stories. 
I stroked on black winged eyeliner and wore a tube skirt and a top that covered my scars. We talked and took a walk holding 
hands. Instead of asking me where I was a year ago (answer: probably in the 
hospital), he asked me what kind of bird I would be. He liked that 
my answer was chickadee. I liked 
that he didn’t suspect the real rea-son for my relentless positivity.
I like Josh because he’s funny 
and sweet and tall, and he looks like a young Matthew Morrison. I also like him because he’s seen 
my Instagram and kissed my scars and hasn’t asked for more. I like that he buries 
his head in my hair and doesn’t need me to 
tell him why I cut it.
I read somewhere that you’re less likely 
to be hired by a company if you admit in the 
interview that you have a history of cancer. 
Until recently, I’ve been having that sort of luck with dates.
I was in love a year ago. When the rela-
tionship ended, I only cried for a day. But 
one sentiment frightened me more than any 
other: The man I will one day marry will not have known me when I had cancer. Would I ever be able to reach a level of intimacy 
with someone so deep that I could explain 
to them the depths of the suffering I had ex-perienced at a mere 19 years old?
With Josh, I’ve learned something beau-
tiful and new. I’ve learned that, at this point, 
I don’t particularly care. Josh has taught me 
there might still be men out there who care more about knowing what makes me smile than knowing the details of my medical his-
tory. There are men who will want to linger 
on the curves of my hips, not the edges of my scars. Life is unpredictable and crazy, and I will never know how long I have left, but I now know I can be kissed and held 
and told I’m beautiful without any hint of 
cancer voyeurism.
Whomever I fall in love with next will 
have to understand that, around me, he can 
never complain about birthdays or getting 
older. He can never light a cigarette. He will have to wear sunscreen and get vaccinated. But he will also have the pleasure of my en-during optimism and my relentless strength. 
And when he says to me, “Can I ask a ques-
tion?” hopefully I won’t ﬂ  inch. I’ll answer honestly, and that will be enough.
An anonymous version of this column 
originally ran in The Daily Trojan.The experience of dating post-cancerUWire
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgAnonymous
UWireFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Chelsea Oxendine of The Savants of Soul performs on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Thursday night.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Valerie Malivuk, 29, above, plays with Elliot Malivuk-Hannahs on Bo 
Diddley Community Plaza on Thursday night.RIGHT: 
India Juliana, 26, watches Little Jake & the Soul Searchers perform on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Thursday night.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
BELOW: 
Shaina Leverett, a 23-year-old UF linguistics senior, watches the musical performances on Bo Diddley Community Plaza on Thursday night.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
T ampa native Little Jake Mitchell performs with rhythm and blues group the Soul Searchers.LEFT: 
A crowd gathers to watch a variety of musical performances at Bo Diddley Community Plaza’s grand reopening event, featuring The Savants of Soul and Little Jake & the Soul Searchers and headlined by Charles Bradley. 
Isabel Bonnet/Alligator Staff
BELOW: 
Three members of rhythm and blues group Little Jake & the Soul Searchers perform at Bo Diddley Community Plaza’s grand reopening concert on Thursday night.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffIsabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Marley Boerema, left, a 20-year-old UF sustainability studies junior, stands with Seth Dornisch, a UF speech-language pathology graduate student, at Bo Diddley Community Plaza’s grand reopening concert featuring Charles Bradley on Thursday night.
Party on the Plaza FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
2bd/2bth townhouse, SW Gainesville, Haile Plantation, cheerful and artistic, furnished, beds, sheets, TV, DVD, washer/dryer, fully equipped kitchen, small front garden, back porch, high ceiling, next to town center, na-ture trails, bike paths, quiet, utilities and in-ternet included, $400/wk + security deposit. No pets. Call 352-256-1211.    3-9-16-5-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
1/1 Apt. 669/mo. Walking distance to UF. 
Pets ok. Has pool and laundry room. Call 352-213-9780 or 352-575-4889    3-8-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
Fuji Bike, Model Spotif, 54", Black, Gatorskin 700x28 tires, helmet- NEVER USED- $500-Call 352-332-5054    3-8-16-5-9
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any  dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363  Ext.300N    2-26-1-10 Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
WANT CASH FOR EXTRA DIABETIC TEST STRIPS?I Pay Top Dollar Since 2005! 1-Day Fast Payment Guaranteed Up To $60 Per Box! FREE Shipping www.CashNowOffer.com 1-888-210-5233 Get Extra $10 Use Offer Code: CashNOW!    2-26-1-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
Seeking responsible and engaging individual 
to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    2-26-1-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers- Avg. $60k+/yr$2k Sign-On BonusFamily Company w/ Great MilesLove Your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    2-26-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers -Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -Get certified in just 12 weeks with FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    2-26-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    2-26-1-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFinders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
18 Personals 14 Help Wanted 20 Event Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida softball team 
defeated UCLA on the road.Read the story on pg. 15.FOOTBALL
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF football adds to staff
The Florida football team added former NFL assistant coach Bret Ingalls to 
its staff, coach Jim McElwain announced on Thursday. Ingalls, who will serve as UF's quality control staff assistant, was a former assistant coach with the New Orleans Saints for the past seven seasons.By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The last time Florida played 
LSU, the Gators were coming off 
an embarrassing 14-point loss to Tennessee that showcased their inconsistencies on both ends of the court.
Now, after an 87-74 home loss 
to Vanderbilt, and with just three games remaining until Southeast-ern Conference Tournament play begins, not much has changed.
Very little seemed to go right 
in Tuesday’s loss to the Commo-dores. It began with Vanderbilt center Josh Henderson’s 80-foot three-pointer at the halftime buzz-
er, and culminated with Florida’s 
26.3-percent shooting night from 
the three-point line and VU’s 50.0-percent mark from the same distance.
Riding a two-game losing 
streak, Florida (17-11, 8-7 SEC) faces LSU on Saturday at 8:30 p.m. And with an approaching home matchup against No. 16 Kentucky next Tuesday, the Gators desper-ately need to replicate their last outing against LSU  (16-12, 9-6 SEC), when they beat the Tigers by six points at home on Jan. 9.
“It’s going to be tough. I mean, 
every game in the SEC is tough,” forward Devin Robinson said on Tuesday. 
“We’ve just got to figure out 
what the problem is.”
Lately, Florida’s problem has 
been finding any form of rhythm on offense.
Over their last four games, the 
Gators have shot 35.4 percent 
from the field and 22.7 percent 
from behind the arc, marks that rank worse than the season aver-
ages of every Division I team in 
the country.
Over that same span, UF is av-
eraging just 63.8 points per game, 10 points fewer than its season 
average of 73.0.
The Gators are in an offensive 
rut.
“We’re just worried about 
getting better right now,” center John Egbunu said. “We have a lot 
of errors we have to fix and we 
don’t have much time and that’s kind of our focus right now.”
Florida’s improvement will 
need to start Saturday when it travels to face an LSU team that has lost three games in a row and four of its last five.
And with the postseason 
quickly approaching, UF will be looking to find some semblance of an offensive rhythm in the next few weeks.
“The NCAA requires one day 
off a week, and that’s probably what our guys need,” coach Mike White said. “They’ve probably heard 
enough of my voice right now.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFlorida hoping to find offensive rhythm against LSU
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
John Egbunu dunks the ball during Florida's 87-74 loss to Vanderbilt on Tuesday in the O'Connell Center.
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Torrian Gray wasn’t going to leave his 
alma mater, Virginia Tech, for just any 
job.
But when the Gators came calling, he 
couldn’t say no.
“I always felt at Virginia Tech I had a 
great job as the defensive back coach,” 
Gray said. “I loved working for coach 
Beamer and coach Foster. … It took a great opportunity like the University of Florida to come back home for me to re-ally entertain (leaving), and that’s kind of 
what happened.”
Gray is originally from Lakeland, Flor-
ida, and his mother and six siblings still 
live there.
The chance to become Florida’s sec-
ondary coach meant that he could live just a few hours away from them, making this the one opportunity capable of prying him away from Blacksburg, Virginia.
“(They’re) going to want some tickets, 
I guess,” Gray said jokingly of his family.
The fact that he would be able to in-
herit Florida’s secondary didn’t hurt mat-
ters, either, and Gray has jumped right in with his 
evaluation of what he 
now has at his disposal.
“I’m very impressed 
with the top-end talent we have,” he said of UF’s 
defensive backfield. “We have to develop some 
depth there, but it’s pretty impressive the guys we do have coming back.”
One of those guys is Jalen Tabor, Flor-
ida’s top cornerback who led the South-eastern Conference — along with Ole Miss’ Trae Elston — with 18 passes de-fended in 2015.
Gray said he believes the UF junior UF introduces defensive backs coach 
THE UF BASEBALL TEAM HAS 
WON FOUR OF ITS LAST FIVE 
AGAINST UM.
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
The Florida-Miami rivalry has always 
been one of the biggest in college sports.
And it will be renewed tonight as No. 1 
UF begins a three-game series against No. 
6 Miami at 7 p.m. in Coral Gables. 
“It’s always a big series against Mi-
ami,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. 
“It will be another challenge, another 
test for us. This is a long season and a long journey. It’s an important series for our fans and for their fans.”
Added Hurricanes coach Jim Morris: 
“It’s probably the biggest series in the country in college baseball.”
But the rivalry has been one-sided as of late. 
The Gators have dominated the series 
in recent memory, winning four of five matchups last season and taking two out 
of three in Gainesville, before beating the 
Hurricanes twice in the College World Se-
ries. 
“They just have a complete team,” 
Morris said. 
“They can really pitch, they can hit and 
they can play good defense. They’re just a very solid club.”
Miami (4-0) got its only win against UF 
last year when it sent Thomas Woodrey to the mound.
 Woodrey stymied Florida’s lineup, al-
lowing just five hits over 6.2 innings while striking out one as the Hurricanes won 7-2 in Gainesville.
Woodrey is scheduled to draw the start 
for Miami tonight and he’ll have added Rivalry Renewed: No. 1 
Florida to face No. 6 Miami
Gray
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14UF has lost two in a row14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
compares to Kyle and Kendall Fuller, two 
standout cornerbacks who played at Vir-ginia Tech.
Kyle Fuller was a first round pick in the 
2014 NFL Draft, while Kendall Fuller is projected by many to also be a first-round-er this year.
“Jalen is an instinctive, football playing 
guy,” Gray said. “Has great ball skills. I’ve been very impressed with what I’ve seen of 
him on film.”
As for Gray, he said the defensive 
schemes he ran at Virginia Tech were significantly different than the schemes 
Florida runs under defensive coordinator Geoff Collins, particularly when it came to the amount of man coverage the Hokies played.
The shift in philosophy will take some 
adjusting on his part, but the new coach is looking forward to the opportunity to stretch himself.
“It’s exciting for me, I get to grow as 
a coach and get to learn Coach Collins’ scheme and what those guys are doing,” Gray said. “It will be fun.”
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Gray coached first-round NFL Draft pick Kyle Fuller at Virgina Tech
motivation going into the series. 
“We’re just going into it with a 
chip on our shoulder,” Woodrey 
said. 
“We want to play them good 
and we want to win. They fin-ished us off last year and we have to use that as motivation going into this weekend.”
The Gators (5-0) will counter 
with Logan Shore, who threw just 10 pitches in the opening game of the regular season series last sea-son before being pulled because of a hip flexor injury. 
It will also be a chance for 
Florida’s freshmen, Deacon Liput and Jonathan India, to experience a true road game. 
Liput leads the Gators with a 
.500 batting average (8-for-16)  with five extra base hits and 10 RBIs. 
And while India hasn’t had the same success at the plate as Liput — he’s hitting .250 — the series against Miami will be a home-coming of sorts for the third base-man, who played at American Heritage in Coral Springs. 
“That’s one of the best atmo-
spheres we get to play in front of,” Florida shortstop Dalton Guthrie said. 
“And from what I’ve heard, 
going to Miami, they always love to bring people out to the game and taunt the Gators.”
While the game is just the 
sixth and fifth games for Florida and Miami, respectively, the mag-nitude of the rivalry is as large as ever. 
“We want to go out here and 
kick their butts,” Miami outfield-er Jacob Heyward said. 
“That’s all it’s about.”
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Freshman Liput leads 
Florida in batting averageTHE GATORS ARE 
9-8 AGAINST NO. 1 
OPPONENTS.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The Florida women’s tennis 
team has done well against top-
ranked teams. 
Last time it went up against 
a No. 1 team, it was in the 2014 
NCAA Team Quarterfinals against 
Georgia in a 4-1 victory. 
Against No. 1 teams, the 
Gators are 9-8 all-time. 
This weekend, Florida will 
look to improve that record.
In its toughest challenge this 
season, No. 7 Florida (5-0) travels to Berkeley, California, to take on 
No. 1 California (9-0) at the Hell-
man Tennis Complex at 3 today. 
“I think Cal, they won indoors, 
they played Southern Cal, which 
is a common opponent and beat them 6-1. So they’ve certainly 
shown they have quality play-
ers," coach Roland Thornqvist 
said Really, really good players 
in every spot, so it’s going to be 
great for us."
The matchup is part of a two game road trip during which the 
Gators will also face No. 16 Stan-ford on Sunday.
Historically, Florida has done 
well against the Bears.UF boasts a 6-0 record against 
California — its last win coming in 2013 against a then-No. 8 Cali-
fornia team, 4-2.
In order to extend that record, though, the Gators will need to 
play even better than they have so far this season.
The Bears are led by No. 5 
Klara Fabikova and No. 10 Mae-gan Manasse in singles and the No. 6 pairing of Manasse and BeliDenise Starr. California also 
has two more rankings in singles, 
with No. 80 Starr and No. 96 Ol-
ivia Hauger, and another doubles 
ranking in No. 52 Fabikova and 
Hauger.
In singles, the Gators have 
six players ranked in No. 6 ju-
nior Belinda Woolcock, No. 12 sophomore Brooke Austin, No. 30 
junior Kourtney Keegan, No. 67 
sophomore Anna Danilina, No. 
72 sophomore Josie Kuhlman and 
No. 88 senior Brianna Morgan.
The Gators have yet to drop 
the doubles point, something that 
could be in jeopardy this week-
end.
With the No. 7 tandem of  Aus-
tin and Keegan and the No. 19 duo of Kuhlman and Woolcock, 
today’s doubles point will be 
heavily contested.
“We’ve played fantastic ten-
nis, we haven’t really been tested 
as much as I perhaps would’ve 
hoped," Thornqvist said. "And I don’t know if it’s because we’re 
that good or whatever, but we’ll 
find out this weekend for sure."
@DreilingerJake
jDreilinger@alligator.orgFlorida hoping to continue success against top teams
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Belinda Woolcock hits a forehand shot during UF's 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis 
Complex.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dalton Guthrie bats during Florida's 8-4 win over Florida Gulf Coast on Saturday at McKethan Stadium. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
As it became clear that Florida 
was going to lose to Georgia for the 
second time this year last Sunday, all Cassie Peoples could do was watch and wonder what could have 
been. 
The redshirt senior guard was 
serving her second suspension of 
the season for a “violation of team culture,” and didn’t even make the trip to Athens.
But on Thursday night, she came 
back eager to make up for the time she missed. 
And in Florida’s 82-56 shellack-
ing of LSU on the road, she did just that by leading the Gators with a season-high 22 points.
“It was really important for her 
to play that well for her team,” coach Amanda Butler said of Peoples’ performance. “Cassie did a great job, as you would expect a 
senior to do, of stepping up … and 
hitting big shots.”
For the SEC’s worst offensive 
team — averaging more than six points less than the second-worst team in the conference — the Tigers started the game as hot-handed as they have all season. 
At 38.2 percent before Thurs-
day’s game, LSU’s shooting per-centage had been abysmal. Yet, it swelled as high as 73 percent in the first half on Thursday. When halftime rolled around, 
it had cooled off and was down to an above-average 54 percent to Florida’s 40.5 percent. But despite the disparity, the SEC-leading UF offense got the job done by relying on its three-point game. 
While the Tigers — who are also 
the SEC’s worst three-point shooting team with just 47 made on the sea-
son — didn’t attempt a three-point 
shot in the first half, Florida found success from behind the arc.
“It’s just great to see not only our 
kids shoot so well, but shoot so well on the road,” Butler said. “It was really important for us tonight. That was the separating factor for us.”
The Gators shot 6-of-15 from 
the three-point line in the first half while attempting 13 more shots than LSU, and led going into half-time. 
In the second half, LSU cooled 
down while Florida got hot. The Gators shot 50 percent from the field in the half, which allowed them to comfortably pull away. 
Florida also won the points-off-
turnovers battle, scoring 35 to LSU’s 10. 
While UF got a boost in Peoples’ 
return from her suspension, it suf-fered the loss of another redshirt senior to injury.
Carlie Needles, who had been 
the team’s vocal leader all season long, was sidelined with concus-sion-like symptoms early in the third quarter. She hit the 200th three-pointer of her career earlier in the game.
“She’s tough as nails, and what-
ever it is … I’m sure she’ll bounce back from it quickly, because there’s not anybody in this league 
that’s tougher than she is,” Butler 
said. 
Florida hopes to have her back in time for Sunday’s regular season finale against Auburn, who handed UF its worst loss of the season two weeks ago. The Gators need a win and some help on Sunday to clinch a top-4 seed in the SEC tournament, which would give them a bye in the 
first two rounds. 
“We want to go and compete 
and put ourselves in position to have the highest seed possible at the 
SEC tournament, which is going to be a heck of a lot of fun this year,” Butler said. 
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgGators women’s basketball handily defeats LSU on road
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer
For nine members of Florida’s softball 
team — seven players and two coaches — 
the annual Mary Nutter Collegiate Classic 
in Palm Springs, California, is a home-
coming — a chance to play in front of friends and family that live thousands of miles away. 
The normally brutal California desert 
was welcoming to the Gators on Thurs-day, as No. 1 Florida (12-0) beat No. 10 UCLA (7-4) by a slim 2-1 margin behind six strong innings from junior southpaw 
Delanie Gourley, a Lakeside, California, 
native. 
But things didn’t always look so warm, 
with the game’s outlook appearing bleak 
in the early moments. 
After Florida went scoreless in the top 
of the first, Gourley got into trouble in the 
bottom of the inning, allowing the Bruins to load the bases on a walk, a single and 
a hit-batter. 
But on a grounder to second base, 
sophomore Nicole DeWitt scooped up the 
ball, stepped on the bag and then fired 
home for the force out to complete the 
double play. 
Gourley then struck out the next batter 
looking, leaving the inning unscathed. 
Florida bounced back in the top of the second, piecing together a two-out rally. Senior catcher Aubree Munro earned a walk, then advanced to second on a Jus-tine McLean single. 
Leadoff hitter Kelsey Stewart followed 
with a single up the middle to score Mun-ro, earning her second RBI of the season and providing the Gators a 1-0 advantage. 
UF’s small-ball attack struck again in the fourth. 
Freshman Amanda Lorenz continued 
her hot hitting with a single to left field that scored Stewart and stretched the lead to 2-0. 
That was all Gourley needed. Most times UCLA attempted to rally of-
fensively, she was able to escape, strand-ing eight runners on base throughout the night. 
The Bruins’ lone run came in the bot-
tom of the sixth.
Designated hitter Taylor Pack stroked 
an RBI-double to right center, cutting the Gators’ lead in half and ending Gourley’s scoreless streak at 27 innings.  
Sophomore Aleshia Ocasio entered the 
game in the seventh, retiring all three batters she faced and earning her second save.  
UF’s defense continued its stellar play 
this season. 
Florida has not committed an error in 
67 innings, and has only one on the sea-son. Heading into the game, the Gators 
lead the nation with a .996 team fielding 
percentage. 
The Gators continue their road trip in 
Palm Springs on Friday, with matchups 
against Washington and Nebraska slated 
for 6 p.m. and 8:30 p.m., respectively.
For results from the second game of 
Florida’s doubleheader against N.C. State, vist alligator.org/sports.
@brianlee_17
blee@alligator.orgFlorida softball beats UCLA behind strong pitchingFlorida never trailed
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Cassie Peoples takes a three-point shot during Florida’s 79-67 win over Vanderbilt on Feb. 18 at the 
O’Connell Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelsey Stewart bats during UF’s 6-0 win over Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Sea-shole Pressly Stadium. 
Gourley went six innings16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
Gymnastics
Taking the O’Connell Center ﬂ  oor at 6:45 tonight, the No. 
2 Florida (6-1, 4-1 Southeastern Conference) gymnastics team 
will face No. 7 LSU (8-2, 4-1 SEC) in a dual meet between two of the nation’s premier gymnastics programs. 
On the Gators’ sideline, freshman Alicia Boren will look to 
continue her explosive inaugural season. 
“She comes in each workout and works hard,” sopho-
more Grace McLaughlin said of Boren, “and having someone younger come in, it kinda pushes us to go in and work harder.
Possessing four top-three all-around ﬁ  nishes on the year, 
the ﬁ  rst-year gymnast out of Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, was named to the SEC’s Weekly Honors list for the second con-secutive week, winning her fourth Freshman Gymnast of the Week award in her seventh week of competition.
With such a skilled freshman in the fold, the other ath-
letes have stepped up their game to match Boren’s blue-collar style. 
“Our Gators, they thrive (in these matchups),” coach Jen-
ny Rowland said. “They’re always up for an SEC challenge, and this weekend is not gonna be anything different.”Men’s Tennis
The Florida men’s tennis team hasn’t lost to Florida 
State since 2007, winning the last six dual matches be-tween the two in-state rivals.
The Gators (4-3) will try to run that streak to eight 
straight tomorrow when they take on the Seminoles (8-
2) at the Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville at 1 p.m.
Florida has struggled to win against elite-level pro-
grams in 2016, losing to teams ranked in the top 40 three 
out of four times this season. However, the Gators have been competitive in each match, with all three losses coming down to the ﬁ  nal singles point.
Florida State boasts two of the top singles players in 
the country this season, with redshirt senior Benjamin Lock ranked No. 16 and senior Marco Nunez ranked No. 
85. Both players are 5-2 this spring.
“The challenge is going to be a big one for sure,” UF 
coach Bryan Shelton said.
 “But we’re playing at home, we’ll be playing in front 
of our crowd and that’s always a good thing for us.”Track and Field
Last season, senior Kyra Jefferson watched UF’s men’s 
track and ﬁ  eld team win the SEC Indoor Championship, while 
her women’s team fell to a second place ﬁ  nish against Arkan-sas. However, this year’s team is different, and Jefferson said it’s ready to bring back a championship to Gainesville this 
weekend.
“I feel like my team has always had the abilities,” said 
Jefferson, the women’s 2015 200m SEC Champion and 400m 
runner-up. “We have always had the strength, but this year we are a lot stronger. We are a lot faster, we jump farther. We have more conﬁ  dence in each other and in ourselves.
This weekend, the No. 10 men will be facing ﬁ  ve teams 
in the top-10 at the SEC Indoor Championships:  No. 1 Ar-kansas, No. 3 LSU,  No. 4 Tennessee, No. 5 Texas A&M and 
No. 8 Georgia. The No. 3 women will be facing three teams 
inside the top-10: No. 2 Georgia, No. 4 Arkansas and No. 8 Tennessee. Competition begins today at 5 for the Gators with the men’s pole vault.
“There is no meet better than the SEC Championship,” 
coach Mike Holloway said.
- Lauren Staff
- Dylan Dixon - Alejandro LópezSports Roundup: Other UF teams in action this weekend