We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 65 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
Senior class leaves impressive 
legacy
Meggie Dougherty Howard played her ﬁ  nal 
game at Florida on Sunday, pg. 13
Students fundraise for Hurricane Matthew victims
So far, the group has raised about $200, pg. 5
UF alumna tackles assault stigmas with campaign
The online campaign supports sexual assault survivors, pg. 8New restaurants to open in 
December
See our restaurant roundup, pg. 3
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Two days after the gen-
eral election, a man from High 
Springs, Florida, punched a Hispanic gas-station employee in the back of the head, claim-
ing the attack was “for Donald Trump,” Gainesville Police said.
After reviewing surveillance-
camera footage from the Gate 
Food Post gas station, located at 3001 NW 13th St., GPD arrested Caleb Joseph Illig, 23, on Sunday on a charge of simple battery.
At about 1:30 a.m. Nov. 10 — 
a day after Trump defeated Hill-ary Clinton in the presidential election — Illig sat inside a car at the gas station, according to the report. He noticed Pablo Eche-varria, a Gainesville resident, cleaning the parking lot and ap-proached him.
Echevarria had his back 
turned to Illig, according to the 
report. Illig then punched him in 
the back of the head and yelled, “Let’s Trump down.”
Echevarria turned around and asked Illig why he hit him. “This is for Donald Trump,” Illig replied, according to the report.
Illig proceeded to repeatedly 
punch Echevarria, who did not hit back and attempted to evade the attack, according to the re-port. Another employee who saw the altercation then called 
the police.
After this, Illig and another 
person returned to the car and 
drove away. Illig told police he could not remember the incident 
because he was on medication for bipolar disorder and drank alcohol that night, according to the report.
He was taken to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he was released Monday on his own recognizance. Illig declined to 
comment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org 
 Post-election, Trump supporter punched Hispanic man, police say
He was arrested Sunday
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police arrested a UF stu-
dent Monday in connection to a sexual 
battery that occurred earlier this month at a campus residence hall.
Parker Glen Grifﬁ  e, an 18-year-old UF 
ﬁ  nance freshman, is accused of sexually battering a female UF student Nov. 5 af-ter the two met at an off-campus event, UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber said.
UF spokesman John Hines conﬁ  rmed 
that Grifﬁ  e is enrolled at UF but has been trespassed from campus. 
The woman told police she invited 
Grifﬁ  e to her residence hall but later asked him to leave. As she tried to lead him out, he pushed her down and as-saulted her, Barber said.The woman told police that she was 
eventually able to get Grifﬁ  e to leave, Barber said.
Barber declined to say in which hall 
the incident occurred to protect the woman’s identity. 
The woman reported the battery to 
UPD on Nov. 10, Barber said. The de-partment’s Criminal Investigations Divi-sion has been investigating the incident for the last 11 days, going over evidence and interviewing the woman and Grifﬁ  e. 
Following the investigation, UPD served a warrant for Grifﬁ  e’s arrest on campus Monday morning.
Grifﬁ  e was charged with one count of 
sexual battery upon a person 18 years or older, a ﬁ  rst-degree felony offense, Bar-ber said.
At 10:39 a.m. Monday, authorities 
brought him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org 
 UF freshman arrested in connection with on-campus sexual battery  
The incident happened Nov. 5THE RECIPIENT WROTE 
ABOUT HOW HER 
MOTHER COPES WITH 
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
When she was 16, Kayla Volk 
received a frantic phone call from 
her mother, who told her she couldn’t move her legs. 
After rushing her to the hos-
pital, the now-UF biology senior realized how multiple sclerosis, a disease that attacks the nervous system, changed her family’s life. And she saw just how resilient her mother could be. 
“She had always been the 
strongest person in my life and my biggest role model,” the 21-year-
old said.
On Monday, Volk accepted a 
$1,500 scholarship during the UF Hopping 4 A Cure Annual Scholar-
ship Banquet. The student organi-zation, which fundraised money to support people affected by multiple 
sclerosis, picked Volk out of about 
30 applicants. 
About 25 Gainesville residents, 
including Volk’s family, watched as Volk spoke about how proud she was of her mother for ﬁ  ghting through the disease.
“I couldn’t be more proud to be 
her daughter,” she said.
Nicholas Torralba, the president 
of UF Hopping 4 A Cure, said the applicants were all Gainesville resi-dents who had been affected by the disease in some way. He said they looked for someone who overcame how the disease impacted their life and devoted themselves to service. 
Taylor McMahon, an 18-year-
old UF sociology junior, was cho-sen as runner-up for the award. 
“These are two ideal appli- UF student organization 
gives $1,500 scholarship
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
PIE-A-LAMBDA
Jacof T erán, a 21-year-old UF sociology senior, pies two Lambda Theta Phi members: Jose Abastida, a 
25-year-old UF political science and anthropology senior, and Victor Baltazar, a 21-year-old UF chemical engineering senior. The pie event served as a fundraiser for the fraternity’s national philanthropy, Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute, which helps to empower future Hispanic leaders.
SEE SCHOLARSHIP,  PAGE 4Illig
Grifﬁ  e
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  74° LOW  50°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘A Christmas Carol’
Don’t miss the wonderment 
and joy of the Hippodrome 
State Theatre’s most recent rendition of the classic “A Christmas Carol,” featuring 
Scrooge, Marley and, of course, 
Tiny Tim. The show will run 
Saturday, Dec. 3, Dec. 10 and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It 
will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 
20 at 7 p.m., and Dec. 21 and Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of redemption, charity and good-will with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Kids get in free Saturday at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. with a donation of nonperishable food for the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank or new unwrapped toys for Toys for Tots. This deal stands for up to two free children per paying adult. Other restrictions may apply, and this offer is only available while supplies last. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for ad-vance reservations.
‘Trashformations’ at the Florida 
Museum of Natural HistoryEver wonder how milk jugs morph into beautiful wading birds or how gears and gad-
gets become gigantic bugs? See 
how Alachua County middle 
school, high-school and col-
lege students transform waste into works of art. The mu-
seum will display the winning 
entries from the 18th Annual 
Trashformations from now 
through Nov. 28. This event is made possible in part by the 
Alachua County Solid Waste 
& Resource Recovery and 
the Alachua County Board of Commissioners.
APIACare (Mental Health): fi-
nal exam care packageMental health is an issue that affects everyone. This finals season, Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs would like 
to encourage everyone to pri-
oritize mental health by pro-viding students with care pack-ages that include items such as coffee, medicine, hygiene products and more in order to promote successful and healthy studying during finals. If you’re a pet owner, APIA has created a Paws and Claws care pack-age filled with toys, treats and resources you can share with your pets. Also, APIA has a care package made for chil-dren, because the organiza-
tion acknowledges that some 
UF students and faculty have 
young children at home, so bal-
ancing family, work and school may be tough. Be sure to take 
care of yourselves and the ones 
you love: your peers, pets and 
children.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 65
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Courtesy of Google Maps 
Culver’s, located at 4036 SW 30th Place, is scheduled to open in December, said owner Patty Hageman.
By Brianna Ellis
Alligator Contributing Writer
Soon enough, UF students won’t have to 
travel far from campus to grab a Big Mac and 
some french fries.
A new McDonald’s is being built at 1206 
W. University Ave., on the once-empty lot be-tween Bagels & Noodles and Gator Beverage.
An approximate completion date for the 5,000-square-foot drive-thru restaurant is set 
for the end of December, said Joel Stengel, 
the executive superintendent at Stansell Prop-
erties & Development, which is overseeing construction.
By construction’s end, the restaurant will 
be the 10th McDonald’s in Gainesville, but it 
will be the first one near campus since the one 
at 201 NW 13th St. closed down.
For UF finance sophomore Roy Dela Cruz, having another fast-food option is good news.
“I’m definitely open to more restaurants, 
and I’m expecting them,” he said. “More res-
taurants means more choices.”
There are several fast-food options on and 
around campus, but a McDonald’s has not 
been among them in almost a year. In that 
time, he said he has had to settle.
“I’ve had to go to Wendy’s,” the 19-year-
old said. “Because of the distance, I haven’t 
been able to go to McDonald’s as much as I’ve wanted to. I’ll definitely go more often now.”New McDonald’s to open near campus before the end of Fall
IT SPECIALIZES IN 
BURGERS AND CUSTARDS.
By Lee Ann Ruffier
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next month, Gainesville’s But-
ler Plaza North will welcome a new 
restaurant.
Culver’s, located at 4036 SW 
30th Place, is scheduled to open in 
December, said owner Patty Hage-
man.
The restaurant, which special-
izes in burgers and frozen custard, 
will be open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., Hageman said, and it will not serve alcohol. Hageman also said she is planning to hire about 70 to 100 people. 
Mary Schluter, Culver’s com-
munications manager, said the Culver family founded the restau-rant chain more than 30 years ago in Sauk City, Wisconsin. Currently, there are 587 Culver’s restaurants in 24 states, she said.
The chain has recently started 
breaking into the Florida market, said Rick Cain, the director of Front Street Commercial Real Es-tate Group.
“I think word of mouth will 
spread pretty quickly,” Cain said. “There’s a reason why they’ve had such phenomenal success.”
A standard value basket, which 
includes a sandwich, side and me-
dium drink, costs $8.09. Prices can 
vary depending on add-ons such as 
upgrading the drink to a shake.
Erin Rathbone, a fourth-year UF 
criminal justice student, said she is really excited for Culver’s to open. The 24-year-old is from Wisconsin and grew up with Culver’s cus-tards.
“I have memories of getting 
done with soccer practice and beg-ging my mom to drive by and see what the flavor of the day was,” she said.Wisconsin-based Culver’s restaurant to open in DecemberSOON TO OPEN IN GAINESVILLE:
• LongHorn Steakhouse: Fall 2016
• Culver’s: Fall 2016
• Poppo’s T aqueria: Fall 2016
• Aldi food market: Fall 2016
• Bento Cafe: Spring 2017
• 365 by Whole Foods Market: 2017
Source: Ken Eats GainesvilleIt will be near Bagels & NoodlesRESTAURANT ROUNDUP4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
cants,” said Torralba, a 21-year-old 
UF finance senior. “They have a bright future ahead of them.” 
Kayla Volk said she was driving 
home Thursday when she received a phone call from Torralba telling her she won.
“I started crying,” she said. “You 
never think you’ll actually win one of those things.” 
She immediately called her mom 
to tell her the news. 
Jennifer Volk, 44, said she couldn’t believe strangers had given their time and money to support her daughter. 
“They don’t know me, and they 
just gave my family such a generous gift,” she said, holding back tears. “How do you thank someone for that?”
Volk was diagnosed with mul-
tiple sclerosis in 2003. She said she knows there are people fighting for a cure, but being able to thank them personally meant the world.
“I feel like I’m no longer on my 
own,” she said.
Since the phone call to her daugh-ter in 2011, Jennifer Volk said she still wakes up every morning in in-tense pain. But her family’s bond has been her foundation to keep pushing through. 
“They’re my world,” she said. In her application for the scholar-
ship, Kayla Volk told the organiza-tion her story about how her mother, 
who she considers her best friend, 
learned to cope with the disease. Receiving the scholarship, she said, shows how people are united in the effort to find a cure. 
“I’m just honored,” she said. “I 
can’t put it any other way.”
SCHOLARSHIP,  from pg. 1The winner was chosen out of 30 applicantsFAMILIES IN ESCAMBIA 
AND SANTA ROSA 
COUNTIES CAN  
 PICK UP FOOD.
By Olivia Ooten 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Eight hundred families are re-
ceiving locally grown food for 
Thanksgiving through a partner-ship between a part of UF’s Insti-tute of Food and Agricultural Sci-ences and a local organization.
The UF/IFAS West Florida Re-
search and Education Center, in collaboration with Feeding the Gulf Coast, will be giving Thanksgiving 
meals to families who pre-qualified 
at local food banks in Escambia and 
Santa Rosa County today until Fri-
day as part of National Farm to City Week. 
Robin Vickers, an administrative 
support assistant for the UF/IFAS 
West Florida Research and Educa-
tion Center, said the event is a way to educate the community on the 
importance of locally grown crops. 
“I want people to understand 
you don’t just go get your food 
from Walmart,” Vickers said. 
“They need to understand where 
their food comes from and the im-
portance of agriculture and our lo-cal farmers.”
The center will provide about 
16,000 pounds of collards, cabbage and grits. Feeding the Gulf Coast, 
an organization that works to feed families, will donate 31,908.5 
pounds of turkey or ham, fixings 
and pastry boxes, she said. Local 
farmers are donating 4,500 pounds 
of sweet potatoes.
Students studying agriculture 
from eight high schools in both 
counties helped harvest the cab-
bage and collards donated by the 
center, she said. During that time, 
they learn how to correctly cut, 
produce, wash and prepare food for 
trucks, Vickers said.Wesley Wood, the center direc-
tor of the UF/IFAS West Florida Re-
search and Education Center, said 
the opportunity gives the students a 
chance to get first hand experience. 
“When students come out and 
help us, they get some awareness about what it takes to provide food 
to people,” he said. 
Vickers said it has been reward-
ing to watch the program grow over 
the past six years.
In its first year in 2010, the pro-
gram fed 200 families.
“Our student participation has 
grown, and our community in-volvement has increased with 
sponsorship,” Vickers said.UF/IFAS center to help feed 800 families for Thanksgiving
HOW MUCH FOOD 
THEY’RE GIVING OUT: 
• 4,500 pounds of 
sweet potatoes 
• 8,800 pounds of collards
• 4,000 pounds of cabbage 
• 1,600 pounds of grits 
• 1,600 pounds of corn meal
THERE WILL BE 
SUGARCANE BOILING 
AND A FIDDLE CONTEST.
by Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
On Saturday, Gainesville resi-
dents can come together to spend a 
day in the 1870s.
At the 15th-annual Cane Boil 
and Fiddle Fest, members of Morn-ingside Nature Center will dress in traditional clothing as they demon-strate how to boil sugar cane and create objects from iron and wood.
The event will be held from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. at 3450 E. University Ave.
Sally Wazney, the event manag-
er at Morningside, said the festival has become a Gainesville tradition for many, but it began by accident.
“Yearly, we would boil the cane, 
and it began to draw a crowd,” she said.
Since then, the event has evolved 
to include the demonstrations, wag-on rides and a fiddle contest for children, Wazney said.
In past years, she said, more 
than 1,000 visitors have attended.
While others listen to music and 
watch demonstrations, farm man-ager Bricky Way will be tending to the sugarcane juice as it boils, which can prove to be a stressful 
task. Cook it too long, he said, and 
it comes out hard like taffy. Don’t 
cook it long enough, and it spoils 
quickly.
Prior to the event, Way will help 
cut and press sugarcane stalks to yield 55 gallons of sap, which will be boiled, bottled and sold Satur-
day.
“There’s a certain point when 
you have to decide when it’s ready 
or not,” he said. “It leaves you with a little bit of anxiety.”
Wazney said the event will give 
attendees a chance to leave behind 
the technological trappings of the 
modern day and connect with the 
past.
“It’s important to learn about 
history,” Wazney said. “We want to 
show people, instead of tell them, 
what life was like then.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgLiving-history festival 
to be held Saturday
“There’s a certain point when 
you have to decide when it’s 
ready or not. It leaves you 
with a little bit of anxiety.”
Bricky Way
farm manager
Looking for interesting courses to take in Spring? Here are 
some being offered. (Pre-requisites may apply.)
• REL 3938 Section: 01B8 — Jesus On TV
Special topic in religion
• ZOO 4926 Section: 07EE Biology Of Sea Turtles
Lectures, conferences or laboratory sessions covering 
selected topics of current interest in zoology.
• ENG 4844 Section: 12H0 — Queer Theory
Overview of major concerns, methodologies and texts in queer theory, illuminating the theoretical insights, assumptions and implications of various constructions of gender, sex and sexuality.
• FOS 4936 Section: Department Controlled — Cereal Science
Lectures, conferences or laboratory covering specially selected topics in food science.
• AMH 3931 Section: 165F — History Of Water
Selected variable topics in the history and culture of America.Interesting Spring courses
Lauren Rowland / Alligator Staff
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
From left: Robert Volk, Jennifer Volk, Kayla Volk and Travis Pemberton pose for a picture. Kayla Volk, a 21-year-old UF biology senior, received the $1,500 scholarship.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
SANTA CLAUS IS COMING TO TOWN
From left: Jenna Cribbs, 7, cheers alongside hundreds of children as Santa Claus arrives at Bass Pro 
Shops, located at 4526 SW Archer Road. He tossed tennis balls to all of the children waiting to see him. About 400 people attended the event on Monday evening.
THEY ARE ACCEPTING 
MONEY, CLOTHES AND 
CANNED FOODS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Eva Dupay, 26, knew she 
wanted to help the residents of 
Andros island when she found 
out it was severely affected by 
Hurricane Matthew. 
“I have to. There’s no ques-
tion about it,” said the UF fourth-
year dentistry student who visit-
ed the island last Spring. “I wish I could’ve given more.” 
Dupay donated to fundrais-
ing efforts organized by Aman-
da Mullersman, a UF third-year 
dentistry student, for the people of Andros affected by the hurri-cane. Mullersman and Dupay are 
part of a group of about 10 stu-
dents who visited the island in Spring to provide pediatric den-tal services to the island.
So far, the group has raised 
about $200, Mullersman said. They are also taking clothes, canned foods, bottled water, toi-
letries, diapers and toys as do-
nations until Dec. 2, or possibly later. 
“We just wanted to get ev-
erything sent before the holiday rush,” she said. 
A group of students in the College of Dentistry have gone 
on the trip for the last three years 
and will return this year, Mull-ersman said. Although Andros is the largest island in the Baha-mas, no dentists live there. 
“After the hurricane, one of 
the schools we visited was com-pletely demolished,” she said. “We’re just trying to do what-
ever we can.” 
For Ericka Lowe Bennett, who 
has gone on all of the college’s 
mission trips as a volunteer fac-ulty dentist, the fundraiser is 
personal. 
The 38-year-old grew up on 
the Bahamian island of Nassau 
before she attended college in 
the U.S. Her family in Nassau 
suffered minor damage to their house, but the citizens of Andros weren’t as lucky. 
“That island was hit even 
harder than Nassau,” she said. “As far as we were told, every-thing’s in need.” 
Lowe Bennett said she thinks 
the fundraiser will be a success. 
“I think it shows the generos-
ity of the University of Florida students,” she said. “It raises your awareness to the purpose 
of charity and giving back as a 
student.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  UF students fundraise 
for Hurricane Matthew victims
Courtesy Microsoft Coorperation
Andros, the largest island in the Bahamas, is shown. The island 
was severely impacted by Hurricane Matthew. A group of UF students are collecting donations  — anything from money and clothes to diapers and toys — to send to the people who live on the island. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORGuest Column
A critique of post-election emotion and logic
So two weeks have passed now, and 
many are still upset, surprised or ecstatic that Donald Trump has been elected the future president of the U.S. Regardless of your position, some facts need to be 
addressed that are eluding the discourse in this post-election environment. This is not a liberal attack on all conservatives — Trump’s campaign included — nor is this a conservative bulwark. This column is an attempt to provide depth to a disillusioned, party-conflicted, currently anger-driven discourse.
First, Trump’s campaign must be, and will be, criticized 
and second, the degree of “criticism” must be addressed.
I mean this as no attack, but rather an affirmation of 
an ugly truth. If you decided to vote for Trump, then that means one of two things: Either you align yourself with his questionable beliefs and rhetoric — as is your right — or you were dismissive of all the hateful and hurtful things he’s said. And you know what? For those of you whom this is the case, I don’t blame you. You were given a dichotomic choice between a person and an establishment. Hillary Clinton was painted as a wall-street devil who was only in it for the mon-
ey, who cared about her position more than the lives lost by 
those in Benghazi. Consequently, somehow a misogynistic, pathologically lying, billionaire businessman was portrayed as a champion for the working people of America. I don’t blame you, nor do I hate you. I understand you. You weren’t given enough time to understand the arguments from either side, because there was no space for argument. 
However, just as I stand to understand you, I poise my-
self to criticize your choice, your candidate and your party. 
Your candidate alone has said many rude and lewd remarks 
about women, and it’s not hard to fathom he’s performed some of these remarks. His campaign, and now pre-pres-idency, is focusing on racism: accepting the endorsement of previous Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke and the votes of white supremacists, continuing to push for a Muslim registry and aiming to appoint Steve Bannon — an open white nationalist and anti-Semitic — as chief strategist of the White House. By doing the things Trump has done, he’s brought about an emboldening of rac-ism we haven’t seen present in the U.S. for de-cades — an emboldening that has seen a spike in hate crimes just within the last week. 
I hope you and those who align yourselves 
with my criticism notice, however, that my criti-cism is well-founded, factual and not foolish. For those of you who agree with me, I believe we must retract our angry shouts and begin anew with proper criticism. We should not be attempt-
ing a discursive criticism by acting like Brooke Henderson, an Alligator columnist, as she claims she can now gener-alize white people as racists. This idea is foolish, ignorant 
and hateful. It does not consider the depth in our political 
system, nor the intricacies voters were faced with in choos-ing a candidate: some which were noted earlier. And we shouldn’t act like Rafael Hernandez, who openly asked for UF President Kent Fuchs and the rest of us to “condemn hate.” While I agree we should openly call out hate speech, condemnation supersedes criticism and is wrong. It has con-notative and archaic ties to publicly punish another person for his or her beliefs. We will not progress as a community 
if all we’re trying to do is silence and dismiss those who 
disagree with us: this applies to either side. 
Henderson and Hernandez have arguments in their col-
umns that I agree with. Henderson spoke of the fear she’s been having and will continue to have regarding her sexual-ity, her body and her inalienable rights. Hernandez spoke of the unfortunately affluent amount of hate crimes surging in the week following the election of Trump and why that is a major problem. However, these two, and many oth-
ers I have spoken to, lost themselves and their arguments 
in anger. Express your anger — you have the right to be angry — but be careful you don’t hold on to this anger and cause it to become hate directed toward others. We become the demons we wish to destroy if, and only if, we wish to destroy them.
James Hardison is a UF English sophomore. His columns 
will appear every day this week.Existential crises 
and Thanksgiving
“No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it’s not the 
same river and he’s not the same man.” — Heraclitus
One of the most enduring struggles we as students must en-
counter this Thanksgiving is that of going home to our families. We’re well aware of the existential fugue state we all enter not only when we return to our hometowns, but also to the homes themselves. You feel out of place, uncomfortable and oddly dis-
tant from a place that had once seemed so familiar to you. Quite 
simply, time changes things. Like Heraclitus’ river, a hometown is not the same place you left. Like Heraclitus’ man, you’re no longer the same person.
Moreover, the inundation of family members is overwhelm-
ingly stressful to some. With perhaps the most controversial elec-tion of our time only two weeks in our collective past, we’re all gearing up for the heated family debates. We all have that one uncle/grandfather who mutters questionably racist things, and 
we all know that this Thanksgiving his language will be far from 
questionable. We all have that one cousin who gets too drunk and starts instigating family drama. (“Remember that one time dad spit out mom’s new recipe?”)
These two offenses would have been enough, but throw in 
a well-intended but incredibly annoying grandmother who only asks school-related questions (including what you’re studying, when you graduate and what you want to do with that degree after you graduate). To our Jewish readers, that conversation al-
ways ends with, “I hope you do well. By the way, my friend 
Barbara’s son is a lawyer/doctor/accountant. Let me spend 35 minutes telling you about that as an attempt to subconsciously get you to change career paths.”
So we here at the Alligator are going to share some of our 
Thanksgiving secrets with you, hoping it’ll help you survive this coming Thursday.
It’s important to recognize that you have power here. You’re 
not a helpless entity thrown mercilessly into this whirlpool. More-
over, you have knowledge here. You know all of the members 
of the family and, hopefully, know where they stand politically, what their social attitude is and whether, quite simply, you enjoy their company. Keep this in mind when you sit down somewhere on the couch for football or around the dinner table to get that good food.
If someone starts going off about his or her gluten allergy or 
veganism, shut your mouth. Sometimes these allergies or diet habits are serious medical concerns, and sometimes they’re total 
bulls---. It’s not your job to let them know which one it is. Instead 
of filling your mouth with choice arguments, fill it with booze and whatever food you want.
And then, of course, there is the nuclear option. All hope 
seems lost when you have one uncle shouting in your left ear about #CrookedHillary and a mom shouting in your right ear about your useless philosophy degree. Never fear, dear reader. Simply bring your phone and a beer to the bathroom and take five minutes to collect your thoughts. Enjoy your adult beverage 
while browsing Twitter, Facebook, Instagram or any other social 
media platform of your choice. At the end of it, you should feel ready to go back out, grab a drink and repeat this process over and over.
Hopefully these tips will help you as much as they have 
helped us here at the Alligator. Please keep them in mind when that existential dread starts seeping into your mind as you travel from our Gainesville sanctuary to wherever your home is. And remember, while your home may not be the same home you left, 
you’re also not the same person you were when you were last 
there. You’re stronger now.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
James Hardison
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
A team of international scientists, includ -
ing two Brown University professors, 
have successfully developed a brain-spinal interface that helps monkeys with severed spinal cords walk again.
First described Nov. 9 in the journal Nature, 
the device is the first of its kind to allow para
-
lyzed primates to regain control of their limbs us -
ing neural feedback.
When there is an injury in the spinal cord, the 
brain’s commands cannot move past the injury, causing paralysis in the affected areas, said Da
-
vid Borton, a professor of engineering at Brown and co-author of the study. The two-part device works by collecting movement commands from within the brain and sending them to a com
-
puter that decodes the signals. The computer then sends the decoded movements to a stimu
-
lator located past the spinal cord injury, and it enables the monkey to move its paralyzed leg as intended.
The interface consists of a wireless neu
-
rotransmitter and an implanted spinal cord stim -
ulator, which activates movement in real time.
In the study, each monkey was paralyzed in 
one leg and walked using its remaining three legs. But, when the brain-spinal interface was ac
-
tivated, the monkeys began using all four legs in a semi-normal gait.
Borton was excited about the results; he said 
he “look(s) forward to one day delivering a fully implanted solution that would allow true mobility of (a human) patient to use the loco
-
motor support system in their daily life.”
The challenge in us
-
ing the device for para -
lyzed humans is that the translation from brain signal to limb movements is difficult to generalize across indi
-
viduals, Borton said. This is because the trillions of connections in the brain develop differently ac
-
cording to life experience; they are unique to the individual and can also change over time. “We’re not even close to (finding) generalizations across people. It’s a very big challenge. It might not even be tenable in people,” Borton added.
Additionally, each of the components of the 
brain-spinal interface must be proven to be safe in humans before testing is possible, Borton wrote in a follow-up email to The Miami Herald.
Although this is a new feat, it is “not good 
enough yet for independent walking,” wrote John Donoghue, a professor of neuroscience at Brown, in an email to The Herald. Donoghue was not a co-author of the study, though he helped develop 
the brain sensor used in the study along with 
Richard Normann, an emeritus-distinguished professor of bioengineering and emeritus-distin
-guished professor of ophthalmology and visual science at the University of Utah.
The study builds on the work of the BrainGate 
collaboration, a team that includes researchers from Brown, Case Western Reserve University 
and Massachusetts General Hospital, according 
to the press release. BrainGate focuses on de
-
veloping technologies to restore the functions of people with neurological diseases, injury or limb loss.
In its research, BrainGate uses the brain-
computer interface that was initially developed 
at Brown. In a 2012 study, this brain-computer 
interface allowed people with severe paralysis to control a robotic arm using their brain activity. The study was led by Donoghue and Leigh Ho
-
chberg, a professor of engineering at Brown and neurologist at Massachusetts General Hospital.
“This (work) has relevance not only toward 
the restoration of gait for people with paraple
-
gia, but (also) more broadly in the development of closed-loop neural interfaces that could help people with other neurologic, cognitive or affec
-
tive disorders,” Hochberg wrote in an email to The Herald.
BrainGate is led by Hochberg, Donoghue, 
Borton and Arto Nurmikko, a professor of engi
-
neering and physics at Brown.
Rhaime Kim is a student at Brown University. 
A version of this column ran originally in the Brown Daily Herald.Device allows paralyzed monkeys to walk — what's next?UWire
Rhaime Kim
UWireLetter to the Editor
The expansion of Gainesville comes 
at a bad time
Welcome to Gainesville, the city of 
brick built around a beautiful university 
with historic architecture and a new sky -
scraper next door. This development is in -
evitable in a growing city like Gainesville, but right next to the university was not the best place to start the conversion. Some continuity would be nice. On the south side of University Avenue, you 
have the UF main campus, with its col
-
legiate buildings and carefully planned 
open areas. On the north side of Univer -
sity Avenue, you have a 10-story modern-style mixed-use apartment building. On the other hand, the UF campus is a major center of activity for a great deal of the Gainesville population. It makes perfect 
sense to increase development next to the 
university: Students want to live close, and people who are in the area for work want to be able to pick up some things. While I dislike the idea of changing the skyline around the university, I must ad
-
mit that if the city is going to continue to grow, then this type of development must occur. However, this should have started a block or two away from campus, and then, over the years, be allowed to creep 
closer to campus. That way, people get a 
chance to acclimate to the different sky
-
line. I think this project had good inten -
tions but poor timing for the location.
Austin Rankin is a UF undergraduate.8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
PITCHING HOME
Above: Scott Hesch, 56, 
pitches his tent after having 
to move it for a day and a half while a team removed danger-ous trees from the D section at Dignity Village in Northeast Gainesville on Monday. “This is my home, ” Hesch said. “I had to move my home for a day and a half. ”
Scott Hesch, a 56-year-old resident at Dignity Village, located in Northeast Gainesville, examines his tent after having to move it for a day and a half while a team removed dangerous trees from the area near where he lives on Monday. Hesch said the D section where he lives had the worst tree problem, with trees being about 60 feet high. “Those trees had to be removed by professionals, ” he said.
Right: Paul Bullard, 48, helps 
sweep a neighbors tent out after having to relocate from their homes at Dignity Village. “We’re all pitching in and help-ing each other out, ” Bullard said. “That’s the way it should work around here. ”
HER STUDY, PUBLISHED 
THIS MONTH, TRACES 
CHEMICAL ELEMENTS 
FOUND IN TEETH.
By Carolyn Batt
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF anthropology doctoral stu-
dent is using teeth to trace the birth-
place of ancient civilizations.
Ashley Sharpe, 29, is tracing 
chemical ele-
ments found in 
teeth with lead-isotope sourcing, 
a method of de-tecting lead in dif-ferent regions of land. Her study, published this month, looks at 
how analyzing the lead can tell peo-ple’s birthplaces. 
“We can accurately pinpoint 
where you might’ve come from,” she said.
Sharpe, who studies Mayan and 
Central America archeology, said the study confirms existing Mayan trade theories and gives archaeologists a 
better idea of the Mayan economy 
and social structure.
“It’s changing everything we 
know about Mayans,” she said. “It opens this whole window into the past about how people interacted.”Researchers conduct the analysis 
by grinding down teeth and putting the fragments into a machine that ex-tracts the lead, she explained, a pro-
cess that can take up to a couple of 
weeks because of the effects of pol-lution. Examining the lead in tooth enamel allows Sharpe and her team to trace travel patterns by matching the lead in the teeth to the lead in the bedrock or the different regions they might have lived on, she said.
Part of the history of how Mayans 
lived is still a mystery, and Sharpe said she hopes to piece together part of it through her work. 
“It feels exactly like being a de-
tective when we’re doing research,” she said. She said she is hoping to expand her research into Southwest-ern U.S. and southern parts of Cen-tral America.  
John Krigbaum, a UF anthropol-
ogy professor, said the study brings concepts from the past to life.
“It’s not so much you are what 
you eat,” he said. “You are what you breathe as well.”
Researchers are using these new 
methods to look at cold cases to determine what they can and can’t 
learn through tests, Krigbaum said.
“UF is investing in the equip-
ment,” he said. “We are investing 
in the people, and as a result, we’re at the cutting edge of the work. It’s good for the university. It’s good for the students.”UF student using teeth 
to trace Mayan history
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
After being sexually assaulted as 
a UF student, Gretchen Casey turned 
a nightmare into a chance to help others.
Casey, the director of Victim Ser-
vices at the State Attorney’s Office, has dedicated her life to helping rape-survivors cope with their as-saults and encouraging others to be more empathetic toward the issue of rape.
Through her Unshame campaign, 
which she began in 2014, Casey launched an online resource for as-
sault survivors, which features vic-
tim services contacts and blog posts from survivors.
Casey said the shame put on sur-
vivors can often cause them to keep assaults a secret, because they feel like they are going to be blamed.
“As a field — the field of victim 
services — we’ve got to do a better 
job of addressing this,” Casey said. 
“We might see more people be will-ing to come forward and accept ser-vices.”
After creating the site, Casey met 
with activists from Alachua County to discuss what they can do as a community to eliminate rape in the county over the next 15 years.
Through a GoFundMe page, 
the campaign raised over $2,000 within the first year, but Casey said she wanted to raise awareness, not money, so she stopped. She used the money received to make motivation-al T-shirts, pins and posters.
Laura Kalt, the director of Victim 
Services and Rape Crisis Center for Alachua County, said the stigma sur-
rounding sexual assault often leads 
others to question survivors’ actions and how they could have prevented the assault.
“That has had a chilling effect on 
survivors for decades,” Kalt said.
She said she believes Casey’s 
campaign will bring this issue to the attention of the larger community.
“Hopefully, with a campaign like 
Unshame, more survivors will find their voice and see that they have al-lies,” she said.UF alumna tackles assault 
stigmas with campaignSharpe
VICTIM SERVICES
• Alachua County Victim Services/Sexual Assault Helpline: 352-264-6760
• Alachua County Sheriff’s Office Victim Advocate Unit: 352-367-4152
• University Police Office of Victim Services: 352-392-5648 or after hours 
at 352-392-1111
• UF Counseling and Wellness Center: 352-392-1575Scott Hesch, 56, and Paul Bullard, 48, work together to pitch a tent after having to relocate their homes at Dignity Village in Northeast Gainesville for a day and a half while crews removed danger-ous trees on Monday afternoon. “We had the worst of the trees, and we had to move, ” Hesch said. His friend Bullard explained that they “help each other out. ” Photos by Charles HatcherTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish-
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    12-2-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
Subleasing a great one bedroom in a 2/2 
bedroom apartment at Lexington Crossings! 
It is a very spacious fully furnished bedroom 
with a private bath. Furnished living room 
with balcony overlooking the pool. Kitchen 
fully furnished. Washer/Dryer. Please let 
me know if interested! Call (786)-444-7043 
or Text (786)-316-2205. Hurry won't last! 
Females only!     11-22-2-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 
gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. 
Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., 
Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-
16-10-10
Public Auction – Onsite & Online - Physicians 
Choice Laboratory Services, LLC. & Ask Me About, LLC. Thurs, December 1 at 10:00 AM  3040 North 29th Ave., Hollywood, FL 33020 Medical/Laboratory Equipment, Medical Supplies, Computers, Electronics, Networking Equipment, Pallet Racking and so much more! Over 450+ Lots! Preview: Day of sale - 9am to 10am Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case No #16-CA-009943/Case No #2016-021997CA-01 Catalog and photos available at www.moec-kerauctions.com 15%-18% BP  (800) 840-BIDS AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     11-22-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & 
SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N     11-22-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesNO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed6 FurnishingsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.98 Chevy Astro Van $999
02 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647      11-22-1-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 Took a powder
5 Wake-up call
alternative
10 Real estate ad
abbr. after 2 or 3,commonly
14 Golfer Aoki15 Blender button16 “Wonderfilled”
cookie
17 One of a daily
three at the table
19 __ colada:
cocktail
20 Heart rate21 Tempo22 Tar Heel State
university
23 Hunting dog25 Israeli currency27 __ out a living29 Fiber-__ cable32 Temperate35 Jinx39 Tokyo, long ago40 Drink cooler41 Ten-spot42 Ga. neighbor43 Voting mo.44 Ditching class,
say
45 Visa rival, for
short
46 Mournful toll48 Former OTC
market regulator
50 Trendy, with “the”54 NFL team that
moved from St.Louis in 2016
58 Perfume that
soundsforbidden
60 Foes of us62 “The Bourne
Identity” star Matt
63 Universal donor’s
blood type, briefly
64 Reality show
hosted by rapperM.C.
66 “Golly!”67 Suggest68 Salinger title girl69 Aardvark fare
70 Affectionate
nickname
71 __-Pei: wrinkly
dogDOWN
1 Talks like
Sylvester
2 Suffix with arab
3 San Andreas __
4 Like much
breakfast bread
5 Jungle chest-
beater
6 Sugar cube
7 Real estate
calculations
8 Gunslinger’s
“Hands up!”
9 Brawl
10 Girl with a
missing flock
11 Military marching
unit
12 Gambling town
northeast ofSacramento
13 Sound of pain18 Smell bad24 Halfway house
activity
26 Oddball28 Spreads, as
seeds
30 Sitting around
doing nothing
31 Win over gently32 Luxurious fur33 Twitter’s bird, e.g.34 Utmost effort
36 Brit. honor
37 Brooks’ country
music partner
38 In base eight
41 Fries sprinkling45 Costs for
sponsors
47 Guffaws or
giggles
49 Iraq’s __ City51 Code of conduct52 SeaWorld orca53 Entice
55 Horse-and-
buggy-drivingsect
56 Mother’s
nickname
57 Lip-curling look
58 Frat party robe
59 Very shortly, to
Shakespeare
61 Mid-21st century
date
65 Cornea’s place
By Janice Luttrell
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/22/1611/22/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, November 22, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FTCall or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    11-30-16-16-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Film Producer-Director-Writer
**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!
52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305      11-22-1-14
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Fire Your Boss Make job crushing income quickly and easily. http://instant10now.com/         11-22-16-5-20
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization (MTPO) for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area announces a public meeting 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE & TIME: December 5, 2016 at 5:00 
p.m.
PLACE: Jack Durrance Auditorium, County 
Administration Building, Gainesville, Florida
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of the 
MTPO
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
calling (352) 955-2200, visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click Transportation - MTPO), or appearing in person, during regu-lar business hours, at 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-ability, familial status, religious status, marital status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities Act or persons who require translation ser-vices (free of charge) should contact Marlie Sanderson at 352.955.2200, extension 103, at least seven (7) days before the public meeting.     11-22--1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
Entry Level
Heavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497     11-22-1-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 24 Pets 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Led by sophomore Eleanna 
Christinaki, the Florida women's basketball team is excelling in the fourth quarter. Read the story on pg. 14Trio of football players earn weekly honors
Three UF football players earned recognition from the SEC for their perfor-
mances against LSU.  Linebacker David Reese was named Defensive Player of the Week, wideout Tyrie Cleveland was named Freshman of the Week and kicker Eddy Pineiro was named the Special T eams player of the Week.HE BEGAN THE SEASON AS A 
BACKUP TO LUKE DEL RIO.
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Austin Appleby knew there were no guar-
antees when he came to Florida.
A graduate transfer with one year of col-
legiate eligibility remaining, the 23-year-old 
quarterback from a small town in north Ohio 
would have to battle his way to a starting 
job.But the dream of playing for UF was 
enough for him to try.
“There’s something about this place,” 
Appleby said. “I couldn’t pass it up.”
Even though he began the season as the 
backup and has spent more time on the bench than on the field in his lone year with the Gators, Appleby’s decision seems to be paying off.
While he became the starter on two occa-
sions after injuries to Luke Del Rio, Appleby 
has made the most of his chances.
And he’ll have another one on Saturday Appleby takes over, leads UF 
through season's final stretchFLORIDA 78, BELMONT 61
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Even with his Hall of Fame father in 
attendance, Canyon Barry didn’t start the 
game.
But he did finish it.
After Belmont cut Florida’s lead to nine 
points in the second half, Barry came off 
the bench and made four straight shots — 
11 points in three and a half minutes — and leading the Gators to a 78-61 UF win on 
Monday night in Tampa.
After Florida’s 15-0 run to start the 
game, the Bruins were never able to claw 
their way back. 
A 16-0 second-half run sparked by a bar-
rage of Barry’s jumpers buried the Bruins. 
Barry finished the game with a team-
high 17 points on 6-of-9 shooting and made all four of his underhanded free throws.
“He showed what he’s capable of. That’s 
two really good games in a row for him,” 
UF coach Mike White said of Barry, who 
scored 16 points in Florida’s win against St. Bonaventure on Thursday.
Before the game, White stressed that UF 
(4-0) needed to limit Belmont (1-2) from 
behind the arc. The Bruins came into the 
game tied for fourth in three-point attempts per game nationally. 
But as Belmont began to throw away 
passes, the Gators didn't have to worry 
about executing their game plan. The Bru-
ins committed six turnovers before they 
made their first shot.
“We were locked in mentally as much 
as we’ve been this year defensively,” White said, “in terms of carrying out the scout-
ing report, running guys off the three-point 
line, communicating at a really high level.”
UF finished with 20 points off Belmont’s 
20 turnovers, leaving the Bruins unable to take a lead or tie Florida. Barry leads Florida basketball past Belmont
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
As time expired at Dizney Stadium on 
Sunday afternoon, the Gators saw their 
hopes of an NCAA title 
evaporate at the hands of 
Auburn, which defeated 
Florida 3-1.
Florida’s eight seniors 
also saw their careers in Gainesville come to a close.It was a bitter moment for a team that 
had NCAA title aspirations.
“Nobody wanted to leave the field,” UF 
coach Becky Burleigh said Monday, fight-ing back tears. “I think that just shows the connection of that team and the influence 
that those seniors had. … I’m just going to 
really miss this senior class because it is a really special group.”
In their time at Florida, the eight seniors 
went on a journey and grew as people and as players, leaving their mark on a program Senior class leaves impressive 
legacy for Gators soccer team
Burleigh
 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15The Associated Press
Guard Canyon Barry attempts a layup during Florida's win over Belmont on Monday night in T ampa. Barry led the Gators with 17 points. 
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHONGAME INFO
Who:  No. 16 Florida vs. Arkansas State
When: 6:30 p.m.
Where:  Jonesboro, Arkansas
Listen:  ESPN Gainesville (No TV)By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
A short bench makes for some 
long games — just ask the Florida 
Gators women’s basketball team. Three Gators logged more than 
30 minutes in Saturday’s victory against Temple. Junior guard Dy-andria Anderson registered 37, while Eleanna Christinaki and Haley Lorenzen recorded 36 and 33, respectively. Five of UF’s 
players average over 20 minutes 
a night.
Normally, heavy minutes 
would be expected to wear Flor-ida’s players down, especially since the three teams UF has faced so far have averaged two 
more players sitting in reserve. 
And yet, the Gators have made 
a habit of outlasting the opposi-
tion. 
Through three games, No. 16 
Florida (3-0) owns a fourth-quar-ter scoring differential of +38. Defensively, the team sits 22nd nationally in steals per game and 
grabs an average of 12.3 more 
rebounds per contest than its op-ponents. 
Part of that can be attributed 
to skill. However, the bulk of it 
boils down to athleticism, Butler 
said.
“It’s a real part of our reality,” 
UF coach Amanda Butler said on 
Monday. “We’ve still gotta want 
to … be dedicated to our bodies so that we can play this style for that long.” 
One person has led that 
charge. 
Fifth-year strength and con-
ditioning coach Tyler Stuart has dealt with short benches before. 
With nine years of training ex-
perience, the former director of strength and conditioning for Ap-palachian State knows how to get the best out of his players, con-
structing individual workout reg-
imens for each of coach Butler’s athletes. 
“Those fourth-quarter perfor-
mances are, in large part, (due) to the level of strength and con-
ditioning training (we receive),” 
she said.
And that 
quality has 
shown early in 
the season. 
It’s evident 
in Christinaki, one of four SEC 
players to aver-age at least 20 
points per game this season. 
It’s evident in freshman guard 
Sydney Searcy, who Butler praised for her defensive work. Regularly matched up against the opposition’s primary ball-handler in press situations, the 
native of Ponte Vedra Beach av-
erages 2.7 steals per game, tied for third-most in the conference. 
It’s also evident in the team as 
a whole, which is scoring an av-erage of 19 points on fast break offense each game. 
Despite their heavy usage, 
the Gators have played the high-
intensity brand of basketball that 
characterizes Butler’s teams.
And with a game against Ar-
kansas State scheduled for to-
night, they’ll be looking to keep 
their energy high. 
“It’s a reflection of our com-
mitment,” Butler said. 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org  Florida women’s basketball ﬂ  ourishing in fourth quarter
Butler credits success to conditioning
Searcy
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Eleanna Christinaki dribbles during Florida’s 92-69 loss to Kentucky in last season’s Southeastern 
Conference T ournament. Christinaki is averaging more than 20 points per game this season. 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
when UF (8-2) travels to Tallahas-
see for an 8 p.m. kickoff against 
Florida State (8-3). Should Florida 
win and somehow pull off an up-set against top-ranked Alabama a week later in the Southeastern Con-ference Championship game, the Gators have an outside chance of making the College Football Play-offs.
“Our goals that we set in front of 
us, that we set in the beginning of the season, are right there for us,” Appleby said. “Our destiny is on our hands. We win and we can ac-complish anything we want.”
The Gators, up to No. 13 in the 
AP top-25 poll, have clinched the SEC East thanks, at least in part, to Appleby’s command of the offense 
over the last two weeks.
He showed consistency against 
South Carolina. The 6-foot-4 quar-
terback completed 81 percent of his passes — the fifth-highest single-game completion rate in UF history — and threw for 201 yards and two touchdowns in the 20-7 win.
On Saturday, during UF’s 16-
10 upset road victory against LSU, he showed off his big-play ability. Standing in his own end zone, Ap-pleby dropped back five steps and fired a pass about 30 yards down the right sideline to receiver Tyrie Cleveland. The freshman caught the pass, ducked under LSU cornerback Donte Jackson and raced down the field for a 98-yard touchdown.
“For him to be able to do what 
he’s doing, guys around him be-
lieve in him,” UF coach Jim McEl-
wain said. “And that has to do more so because they see the work that he puts in studying, playing and af-fecting the people around him in a positive way.”
Receiver Brandon Powell added: 
“It’s really no surprise, the success he’s having on the field and what he’s doing now, because he’s been showing it all year.”
Now, McElwain and the rest 
of the team are looking for him to show it again.
He has two games in two weeks 
to do it, starting with Saturday against Florida State. 
Either way, good or bad, Apple-
by will be under center, ready to make the next play.
“I’m right where I’m supposed to 
be,” Appleby said, “and I couldn’t be more thrilled.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg.13UF plays FSU on SaturdayEventually, as Belmont cut into 
Florida’s lead — trimming its deficit 
down to as little as nine points — 
Florida’s defensive preparation paid 
off. The Gators left Belmont shooting 7-for-27 from three and 39.2 percent 
from the field.
“The game plan was just to run 
them off the three because they’re 
known (as) a three-point shooting team,” UF guard KeVaughn Allen 
said.
Florida had its own troubles from 
deep early on. After closing the first 
half 0-of-8 from three, the Gators 
bounced back and went 5-of-13 in the second half. 
Allen broke the drought with 
a triple with 13 minutes left in the 
game. He finished with 14 points 
and a team-best 2-for-5 performance 
from three. 
“I got in a rhythm,” Allen said.
He also went 4-for-4 on free 
throws, a point of emphasis for Flor-
ida after last season’s 64.8-percent 
average kept it from cashing in at the line. 
UF went 19-of-24 (79.2 percent) 
from the stripe against Belmont.
“I thought the environment was 
great tonight,” White said. “We’re sitting here feeling decent about 
ourselves this early on, not having 
stumbled yet.”
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg.13UF shot 79.2 
percent at the free-throw line
that has produced some of the 
most accomplished soccer players in the country.They made four-straight NCAA 
Tournament appearances and 
claimed two Southeastern Confer-
ence regular-season titles and two SEC Tournament titles.
“For me it’s really hard to put into words. This place has been my home for the last four years,” 
All-American forward Savannah 
Jordan said after the loss to Au-burn. “And it flies by. But it’s meant the world to me, and I’ve appreciated everything this pro-gram has done for me and our 
team.”
Jordan leaves Florida having 
scored 81 career goals, the sec-
ond-most in program history be-
hind Abby Wambach (96).
Teammate Meggie Dougherty 
Howard also leaves the program on a high note.
The midfielder scored eight 
goals this season, more than her first three years combined. 
She was also named the SEC 
Tournament MVP and made the 
All-SEC First Team for the first time in her career. 
“I think all of us have grown so 
much as players and people, way more so than coming in we even thought was possible,” Dough-
erty Howard said. “It flies by, but 
this university and this program is something special. It just gives you so many opportunities and so much love and support that I 
don’t think you get everywhere.”
And while the loss of these ac-
complished seniors leaves a huge 
void to fill, Burleigh is confident 
the rest of her team will step up 
to the challenge.
“We have a lot of talent com-
ing back,” Burleigh said. “I’m really, really optimistic about 
where we are. Not only from a 
talent perspective but just from a mentality perspective, and what 
we are trying to build and con-
tinue to build. I’m really excited for the future.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 13UF's senior class won two SEC Tournament titles
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Senior Meggie Dougherty Howard (28) dribbles the ball during UF's win against UCF on Sept. 18.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby looks to pass down field during Florida's 16-10 win against LSU on Saturday at Tiger 
Stadium. Appleby, a graduate transfer, will likely remain UF's starting quarterback for the remainder of the season.16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 2016
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson poses with fans after Florida’s 16-10 win over LSU on Saturday in Death Valley. The 
Gators take on FSU this Saturday in T allahassee.
THIS WEEK IN 
UF SPORTS
Tuesday
• Women’s basketball @ Arkansas State, 6:30 p.m. 
Wednesday
• Volleyball vs. Auburn, 8 p.m. on SEC Network
Thursday
• Men’s basketball vs. Seton Hall (in Orlando), 8:30 p.m. on ESPN2
Friday
• Men’s basketball vs. Gonzaga or Quinnipiac (in Orlando), Time TBA on ESPN2
• Women’s basketball @ Northwestern, 8 p.m. on Big T en Network Plus
Saturday
• Football @ Florida State, 8 p.m. on ABC
• Volleyball @ Arkansas, 2 p.m. on SEC Network+
Sunday
• Men’s basketball vs. TBA (in Orlando), on ESPN networks