POLICE CHARGED HER 
WITH CARRYING A 
CONCEALED WEAPON.
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police arrested a UF 
employee Tuesday after police said a 
gun was found in a jacket she left in the Reitz Union.
At about 4:30 p.m., police re-
sponded to a call from someone who found a jacket in a public hall of the Student Government Ofﬁ  ce, which was left by Michele Williams, 46, ac-
cording to a police report.
The man called police after he 
saw a gun in the jacket’s right pock-
et, according to the report.
Police identiﬁ  ed the gun as a load-
ed Ruger LCP .380 pistol and then called Williams to the campus police department, according to the report.
Williams, who does not have a 
concealed weapons permit, told of-ﬁ  cers she brought the gun to campus and left it in her purse all day before leaving without it, according to the report.
She is listed as a faculty member in the UF Directory. As of December 
2015, Williams is also listed in an of-
ﬁ  cial Student Activities request guide as a senior ﬁ  scal assistant for SG.
As of press time, she could not be 
reached for comment. 
Authorities arrested Williams 
on a charge of carrying a concealed weapon and a misdemeanor for un-safe storage of a ﬁ  rearm. Authorities 
took her to the Alachua County Jail, 
where she was released Tuesday af-ternoon on a $6,000 bond. 
@ESCochrane
ecochrane@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 124 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
The Florida football team held 
its Pro Day 
Vernon Hargreaves III has impressed 
NFL scouts, pgs. 8-9
Students write messages, play games at ﬁ  rst 
U Matter Day
It was held on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday, pg. 3
Law students dunk dean at multicultural fair
About $400 was raised for a sports law conference, pg. 5Check us out online
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter 
@thealligator and Istagram @thealligator_
CAMPUSBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Some called it a time to reconnect with the 
community, while others called it stunt by law 
enforcement to redirect public attention.
Some residents felt their voices went un-
heard Tuesday night, when the Alachua Coun-
ty Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and Gainesville Police, held a 
meeting to discuss Sunday’s fatal shooting of a 16-year-old boy.Inside the Powerhouse Family Worship 
Center at 6 p.m., residents expressed a mix of anger and understanding, along with a sense of heartbreak that pervaded room.
On Sunday night, Robert Dentmond, a 
sophomore at Gainesville High School, called 
police and said he was intent on shooting him-
self with an M16 assault riﬂ  e.
Dentmond stood in the middle of a parking 
lot at Majestic Oaks Apartments, where nine law enforcement ofﬁ  cers ﬁ  red their weapons and killed him after a tense standoff.
Alba Berroa, a Majestic Oaks Apartment 
resident, said Dentmond was asking for help when he called 911.
Sheriff Sadie Darnell said the incident, how-
ever tragic, was an example of textbook polic-ing.
Though Dentmond’s weapon turned out to 
be a plastic BB gun, law enforcement ofﬁ  cers are trained to take all credible threats seriously.
The Florida Department of Law Enforce-
ment is currently investigating the matter.
GPD Chief Tony Jones said authorities re-
quested the FDLE’s involvement for the sake of transparency. FDLE is not required to investi-
gate ofﬁ  cer-involved shootings in every Florida 
city.
Florida Senate Bill 810: Investigation of Le-
thal Force by Law Enforcement Ofﬁ  cers and Florida House Bill 933: Investigation of Lethal Force by Law Enforcement Ofﬁ  cers both would have required law enforcement to report any case involving lethal force to FDLE.
Both were struck down March 11.
The nine law enforcement ofﬁ  cers involved 
in Sunday’s shooting are currently on non-pa-
trol duties.Police hold public meeting for slain teenager
SEE POLICE,  PAGE 4
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Stefan Musser walked into Us-
tler Hall expecting to date a femi-
nist woman Tuesday night.
The UF physics senior at-
tended the ﬁ  rst “Speed Date a Feminist” event, hosted by the Women’s Student Association as 
part of Women’s History Month. 
About 20 students sat across 
from each other in two rows to 
discuss what feminism means to them.
“I was under the impression 
that there would be feminists and they would be engaged in speed-dating with the intention of po-
tentially forming romantic part-
nerships,” the 22-year-old said.
Musser said he saw the event 
on Facebook but didn’t read the description on the page.
“When I saw the term ‘speed 
dating,’ I thought that it was that,” he said. “It was my mis-take. I didn’t read more of the 
description.”
Instead, all Musser and his 
two friends took home were 
cheese cubes and crackers from the snack table.
Audrey Guerra, the co-pro-
gramming director of Women’s History Month, organized the event. The 21-year-old said she 
expected misunderstandings.
“I anticipated something like that to occur, but it was the end 
of the event, so I was a little sur-
prised,” she said. “I am happy 
they at least got some food for their troubles.”
Guerra said the event allowed 
students to talk about feminist is-
sues in a new style.
“This event is introducing 
people to feminism in a speed-
dating-type format,” the UF polit-ical science junior said. “We are 
hoping to encourage people to 
look at feminism in a much more approachable way.”
Mark Tracz, a UF family, 
youth and community scienc-es senior, participated to learn about others’ perspectives. Tracz was one of the ﬁ  ve men who at-tended.
“I try to read up to stay edu-
cated,” the 22-year-old said. “To me, feminism is about making sure people have the ability to 
speak and feel empowered to say 
what’s on their mind.”Student doesn’t ﬁ  nd 
love at feminist event
SEE FEMINIST,  PAGE 4Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
WORK IT
Janzen Harding (center), a 22-year-old UF classical studies and international studies senior, does sit-
ups during Southwest Recreation Center’s Bootcamp on Tuesday evening at Maguire Field.
Police arrest UF faculty member  Some residents expressed concern
“I was under the impression 
that there would be feminists 
and they would be engaged 
in speed-dating with the 
intention of potentially 
forming romantic 
partnerships.”
Stefan Musser
UF physics seniorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Concussion’
In collaboration with 
GatorNights, Athlete Brain brings “Concussion,” starring Will Smith, to UF. Presented during 
Traumatic Brain Injury Awareness 
Month and in extension of Brain Awareness Week, the night will kick off with free pizza and prizes at 7 p.m. Friday in the Reitz Union Auditorium. An expert Q&A panel featuring UF leaders in concus-sion health care and research will follow at 7:30 p.m. Arrive early — 
seats are limited!
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Kickin’ It 
Country themed event Friday from 8:00 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will fea-ture a mechanical bull, old-time photos and live entertainment 
from the band Wax Wings. The 
event will also feature two show-ings of the movie “Concussion” at 8:00 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The night will end with free coun-try breakfast during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Gay Movie Night: ‘Capital Games’
On Friday at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Pride Community Center, located 
at 3131 NW 13th St., come see “Capital Games” with the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida. Take two am-bitious men and one top Los Angeles advertising firm and add a competition for the same high-ranking job. Steve Miller, a tough 
ex-cop for the Los Angeles Police 
Department, quit police work for the calm environment of a busi-ness office. Mark Richfield, the glamorous new kid in the office, soon wins favor with the big boss and co-workers, causing Steve to cringe in jealousy. After a crazy night in the Santa Fe desert, Steve 
becomes torn between passionate 
love and passionate hatred. Steve and Mark endure agonizing de-cisions that will affect their lives forever. Gay Movie Night is a free service of PCCNCF. A $2 donation is requested to cover the cost of snacks.
Multifaith Music Fest
On Saturday, the UF Interfaith Ambassadors will be hosting the inaugural Multifaith Music Fest, showcasing the diverse artistry of faith- and non-faith-based groups in Gainesville. UF students and Gainesville nonprofit organiza-tions are cordially invited to at-tend. Performances will take place Saturday on Flavet Field at 7:30 p.m., and free food and wa-
ter will be provided. 
The Multifaith Music Fest is the perfect way to spend a unique Easter weekend by listening to a variety of performers from all walks of religious and non-re-ligious life. For event inquiries, please email Adam Gerstenfeld at interfaithuf@gmail.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 124
HIGH  82° LOW  55°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
IT WAS HELD ON THE PLAZA OF THE 
AMERICAS ON TUESDAY.
By Madeleine DeSena
Alligator Contributing Writer
Andrew Lim opened a piece of paper that read, 
“Smile, it’s contagious,” on the Plaza of the Ameri-
cas on Tuesday.
The UF biochemistry sophomore attended U Mat-
ter, We Care’s first U Matter Day, where ambassa-dors of the program played games with students and handed them inspirational messages. 
Students could also write their own messages on 
whiteboards and answer questions to win prizes, in-cluding highlighters and T-shirts.
U Matter, We Care has been planning the event 
since May 2015, said Rachel Clark, a graduate as-
sistant at the Dean of Students Office.
The organization decided to hold U Matter Day to 
educate students about support services available to 
them on campus, Clark said. 
They chose to hold it Tuesday because there 
were fewer events going on compared to other days.“We looked at the calendar and today seemed 
like a good day for everyone,” she said. 
Alex Timmer, an ambassador for U Matter, We 
Care, handed students messages that said, “every Gator counts.” 
She said she joined the organization to reach out 
to students and to create a culture of care on cam-pus.
“I wanted a tangible way to be able to help stu-
dents on campus and let them know that we care, even though they may feel like they are in a sea of people,” the 21-year-old UF psychology senior said.
Raymund Gaviola, also a U Matter, We Care am-
bassador, said students need to know they can find 
their community at UF.  
“It is important to let students know that they are 
not alone in a campus so big,” the 19-year-old UF 
biology sophomore said.
Lim, 19, said he liked how the ambassadors en-
gaged students during U Matter Day.
“I like how they’re actively engaging people and 
welcoming them into the event,” he said. “They weren’t just tabling and making people come to 
them.”Students write messages, play 
games at first U Matter Day
Madeleine DeSena / Alligator
U Matter, We Care hosted the first U Matter Day on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. Program 
ambassadors played games with students and handed them inspirational messages throughout the day.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Kasey T ahmosh, a 20-year-old UF marketing sophomore, takes a picture of two students with an Instagram photo frame with #UpLiftUF on the Plaza of the Americas for the U Matter Day on Tuesday.At the meeting Tuesday, Santa Fe College 
student Jecomiah Walker felt the community’s 
voice was stifled, citing a large attendance of residents and a small representation of elected officials and mental-health experts.
“It’s like they’re sweeping everybody’s 
emotions under the rug, and it’s only frus-trating people that’s in here trying to speak,” Walker said.
Instead of placing all the blame on law en-
forcement, Darnell said, the entire community should receive eight hours of mental health care training. Darnell said ACSO has the high-est percentage of law enforcement personnel 
with Crisis Intervention Training in Florida. 
Both ACSO and GPD recommend 40 hours of instruction to receive CIT certification.
Three ACSO officers and one GPD officer 
who were present on Sunday had their CIT certifications.
Berroa, who lives in Dentmond’s former 
building, said law enforcement not only killed 
Dentmond, but also put the safety of residents 
at risk.
In the parking lot, Berroa’s white Toyota 
has a bullet lodged in the windshield and a hole on the trunk.
As her neighbor sat on a couch with her 
husband Sunday night, a stray bullet broke 
through her wall and hit the TV, Berroa said.A bullet that struck an adjacent apartment 
narrowly missed a young girl who sat in her bedroom, she said.
Dentmond’s sister wanted to reason with 
her brother, Berroa said, but police did not al-
low residents to enter the active crime scene.
“And a lot of people want to know why 
things wasn’t done differently,” she said. “Like, why so excessive?”
She said tear gas, mace or a trained sharp-
shooter could have all ended the situation 
without ending the teenager’s life.
Ian Brandon, a Micanopy resident who 
works in Gainesville, protested the shooting 
Tuesday afternoon outside GPD Headquarters.
“They need training in de-escalation and 
crisis intervention, not just, ‘Do what I say or I’ll kill you,’ Brandon said. “That’s the only training they got right now.” 
Darnell said her deputies are as well 
trained, in that only additional funding would help improve ACSO practices. 
“We can’t diagnose,” she said. “We can try 
our best to de-escalate. We can try our best to establish a rapport, but we need the help of professionals.”
“Like it or not,” she said, “it boils down to 
money.”
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgGuerra asked the participants to which 
pro-feminism organization they would do-
nate a million dollars.  
Jodi Bauson, a UF biomedical engineer-
ing freshman and Girl Scout, said she would donate to Girl Scouts of America.
“I feel like they really helped foster that 
belief that we could do what we want,” the 
19-year-old said. “If you give the money to 
young girls, you can help them realize their potential.”
Emily Nieves, a UF political science ju-
nior, said she feels feminism isn’t accepted by everyone.
“There are a myriad of reasons why femi-
nism isn’t accepted,” the 20-year-old said. “The largest one is people not knowing what 
feminism is.”
@MerylKornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
POLICE,  from pg1The town hall meeting was held Tuesday
 The event was 
to celebrate 
women’s 
history monthBy Amalie Batchelder
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gloria Rodriguez is tired of land-
lords discriminating against her.
Outdated websites and vague 
posts make the housing search frus-
trating enough, and it becomes a big-
ger hassle when many listings pro-
hibit undergraduate students from applying at all, she said. 
“I don’t need to be a doctor to 
be a decent adult,” the 19-year-old sophomore said.Although some Gainesville apart-
ments are geared toward students, others are listed as professional or graduate housing only.
One realtor advertised a house 
near the Mark Bostick Golf Course 
with a sign that read “no students.”
Rodriguez said she believes land-
lords assume students party a lot, 
and that it’s insulting to assume undergraduates are not capable of maintaining a household.
“Less difficult, less competitive 
classes mean more time to be hooli-gans,” she said.Landlords also take advantage of 
students’ limited options by increas-ing prices for small amenities, such as patios and fridges, Rodriguez said.
To avoid a lousy experience, she 
said, enter the housing search pre-pared.
“Start early, keep options rela-
tively flexible and, for the love of God, choose potential roommates wisely,” she said.
Companies such as Bosshardt 
Realty and Carl Turlington Real Es-tate listed houses near UF’s campus and specified the homes “will not be leased to undergraduate students.”
Bosshardt Realty declined to 
comment, and Carl Turlington Real Estate could not be reached as of press time.
The Fair Housing Act of 1968 
prohibits real estate agents from dis-criminating against people based on biological factors including age, Lau-ra Garcia, an administrative assistant 
for Secure Investment Realty, wrote 
in an email.
However, different rules govern 
privately owned property, she wrote.
Lea Knezevich, a property man-
ager for Campus Realty, said none of their properties are age-restricted, but that other landlords view under-graduate students as irresponsible.
“Students are young and they 
are having and going to parties, and sometimes this can lead to costly re-pairs,” Knezevich wrote in an email.    
She said landlords with small 
units may benefit from seeking graduate students or older tenants, but those with larger properties of-ten can’t find renters when banning 
undergraduates.
Knezevich said undergraduate 
students can overcome obstacles to 
housing by offering a larger deposit as insurance or by researching Flor-ida’s laws regarding age discrimina-tion.
“We do have some owners that 
would prefer older students, but in 
the end, it is who is able to pay the 
rent,” she said.
Locals and students discuss student housing disparities 
UPCOMING WOMEN’S
HISTORY MONTH EVENTS
 
• THURSDAY
 “Masculine Mystique”
 7 p.m. at Pugh Hall
• FRIDAY
 “Feminist Fun Friday”
 10 a.m. on the Plaza of the Americas
• MARCH 28
 Women and Health, presented by 
GatorWell
 6 p.m. at CSE E220
• MARCH 31
 Bystander intervention training with STRIVE
 6:30 p.m. at Ustler HallSome don’t lease to students
FEMINIST,  from pg 1
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Vehicles with bullet holes were found in the adjacent parking lot at Majestic Oaks Apartments.Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
The local community set up a memorial where 16-year-old Robert Dentmond was shot and killed by nine law enforce-ment officers Sunday night at Majestic Oaks Apartments.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Anthony Nicotera
Alligator Contributing Writer
The infamous Zika virus is closer to 
home than some may think.
Public Library of Science: Outbreaks, a 
peer-reviewed journal, recently published a 
list of 50 cities that could experience Zika transmission this summer.
Among them are Florida cities Tampa, 
Jacksonville, Tallahassee, Miami and Or-lando.
All current U.S. cases are travel-related, 
meaning the affected person contracted the virus abroad and returned to the states.
Alachua County currently has four Zika 
cases, according to the Florida Department of Health’s daily Zika update.
According to the study, infected mos-
quitos in the U.S. may begin to affect U.S. residents.
Paula Pulido, a 20-year-old UF biology 
junior, said she contracted the virus during Winter Break in Villeta, Colombia.
“I got a rash all over my body and ev-
ery single joint was swollen,” Pulido said. “I had to pretty much stay in bed all day because I couldn’t move.”
Though she suffered for a week, Pulido 
said the virus is not always disastrous.
“My grandma and my brother had got-
ten it and had been ﬁ  ne,” Pulido said.
Of the 258 travel-related infections re-
ported as of press time, 18 were contracted by pregnant women and six were sexually transmitted, according to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention.
Zika is transmitted via the bite of an 
infected Aedes mosquito, according to the 
CDC. Symptoms — which include fevers, rashes, red eyes and joint pain — usually 
only last a week.
The virus can also cause pregnant wom-
en to birth children with microcephaly, 
which stunts the development of babies’ 
brains and causes children to have abnor-
mally small heads, according to the study.
Residents can protect themselves in 
several ways, said Mara Gambineri, the 
FDOH’s communications director.
“There are basic steps you can take,” 
she said, “such as draining standing water, covering skin with EPA-approved repel-
lents and clothing and covering doors and 
windows with well-ﬁ  tting screens to ensure mosquitos aren’t coming indoors.”Study predicts new presence 
of Zika virus in FloridaHEALTH
THE FAIR RAISED $400 
FOR A SPORTS LAW 
CONFERENCE.
By Brenna McKenna
Alligator Contributing Writer
Law students dunked UF Col-
lege of Law’s Dean Laura Rosen-
bury at the 10th Annual Multicul-
tural Fair on Tuesday. 
About 750 people attended the 
event, where students dunked 
the dean for the first time. 
The fair raised $400 for a sports 
law conference taking place April 4 that will discuss entertainment and sports media law. 
About 43 UF law organiza-
tions chose countries to educate students about. They created posters about their countries and 
provided dishes from them, said 
Andy Schein, the president of the Law College Council. 
Kelsey Pena, the treasurer of 
UF’s Association for Public Inter-est Law, served students shep-
herd’s pie from Ireland. 
Other tables offered tacos, 
meat pies, plantains and ginger 
beer to give students a taste of 
each country.
Clubs had to purchase dishes 
from restaurants or vendors, Schein said. Because of this, they 
were each given about $100 to buy food.
Each club also submitted a 
poster — decorated with its coun-try’s colors — that displayed le-gal and fun facts.
Schein said the fair was a nice 
break for law students before they start preparing for finals.
“Everybody buckles down for 
finals; no one even leaves the li-brary or their house, so it’s good 
to have people out here now,” 
the 24-year-old said.
Anne-Marie Kabia,  the direc-
tor of communications for the Black Law Student Association, said she liked meeting others at 
the fair.
“It’s nice just to be out here 
and to get to know about other 
organizations and to connect and network with other students,” 
the 26-year-old UF law student 
said.  Law students dunk dean, try new foods at multicultural fair
‘NEATH THE ORANGE AND BLUE
Century T ower overlooks Jeremy Mangal, a 23-year-old UF musical the-
atre sophomore, as he makes his way through the breezeway between the Computer Science and Engineering building and Marston Science Library on his way to class on Tuesday afternoon.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Brenna McKenna / Alligator
Kelsey Pena, right, the treasurer of UF’s Association of Public Interest Law, serves a student shep-herd’s pie, which was part of the Ireland table at the 10th Annual Multicultural Fair at the Levin College of Law on Tuesday.“There are basic steps you can take, 
such as draining standing water, 
covering skin with EPA-approved 
repellents and clothing and covering 
doors and windows with well-itting 
screens to ensure mosquitos aren’t 
coming indoors.”
Mara Gambineri
FDOH’s communications director
“Everybody buckles down for 
inals; no one even leaves the 
library or their house, so it’s 
good to have people out here 
now.”
Andy Schein
president of the Law 
College CouncilThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnA teenager’s death, 
a community’s 
shortcomings
Sunday’s events have left many of us here at the Al-
ligator heavy-hearted. We’ve reported on more stu-dent deaths and tragedies this semester than we can 
care to count, yet 16-year-old Robert Dentmond’s 
death is particularly troubling for us to discuss.
Given the fact this is a case of police violence in the year 
2016, people are bound to bring, over the next few days, 
their personal political leanings regarding police violence 
and mass shootings into the mix of Dentmond’s death. We hope to maintain the objectivity of our concerns and criti-cisms of how law enforcement handled this entire situation.
By now you’ve probably read a number of reports, wheth-
er from our reporters or other outlets: Dentmond called 9-1-1 to disclose his possession of an M16 riﬂ  e and his desire to commit suicide. Ofﬁ  cers and deputies, some with Crisis In-tervention Training, responded to the scene and attempted 
to negotiate with Dentmond before shooting him after he 
picked up what now has been identiﬁ  ed as a replica gun and began backing away toward the apartment buildings.
It’s easy to, at ﬁ  rst glance, point ﬁ  ngers at the police. 
While we can’t ignore our concern that bullets were ﬁ  red 
not only at Dentmond, but into the surrounding homes, we 
also understand why the nine ofﬁ  cers reacted how they did. Based on a video recorded from a neighbor’s balcony, it wasn’t a split-second decision. It was a decision that came 
after 20 minutes of negotiation, pleading and multiple warn-
ings. We could never make that decision, and we can’t judge those who have to. 
Our primary concern is with the community we heard in 
the original video, which has now been taken down after 
more than 1,000 shares on Facebook. In the video, witnesses 
are heard heckling and yelling at the situation, even going so far as to say that this would “put Gainesville on the map.”
How could we, as a community, be so insensitive to 
those around us? A standoff between a teenager and police is not something that needs lighthearted commentary from a balcony. A single voice was heard warning others that this could be a sad situation. That voice of compassion should have been every voice. 
There are far too many people in this world without a 
hope for tomorrow, and that is the person police say they heard Sunday night. We can’t make judgement on what was going through Dentmond’s mind, and we will never know 
for sure why he made the phone call and why he picked up 
the gun. What we do know is a loss of a life is always some-thing to be mourned, and Dentmond is no exception. 
Don’t point the ﬁ  nger, but instead extend your hand and 
thoughts to Dentmond’s family as we at the Alligator do to-
day. His death should not be used to prove a point about 
police brutality or motivation for law enforcement funding. It should be a reminder to cherish the lives of those around us and a reminder of our duty as a community to not trivial-
ize a situation we cannot fully understand. 
West University Avenue could be made safer 
West University Avenue provides us 
UF students with an outlet from be-ing constantly contained on cam-pus. Restaurants serve as alterna-tives to what many call “on-campus 
dining.” Some students make their ways to University Avenue on the weekends to relieve the stress the everyday weekday grind brings. More than anything, University Avenue is signiﬁ  cant because it’s a walking distance es-cape from school, opportune for ﬂ  eeting mo-ments. But it could use some improvements, and some only require reprogramming and little bit of paint.
Some of the ﬂ  aws in University Avenue’s design 
make it difﬁ  cult to believe higher-order thinking occurs in such close proximity. The street has developed into a hub for a large volume of cars and pedestrians. The best thing is to expand the street itself, but this proves impos-sible with the settled foundations of UF on one side and a string of shops and restaurants on the other. However, the streetlights could be reprogrammed to make crossing streets safer.
Anyone who has ever crossed West University Av-
enue knows the potential dangers of just stepping on the road when the white-illuminated man gives the signal. For some reason, it seems like a good idea to let pe-destrians cross the road at the same time cars are try-ing to make a 30-second light. It is a constant struggle for pedestrians to decide whether to start walking or let the cars turn. Although pedestrians may have the right of way, no one should look to take on a two-ton auto-mobile. The solution is clear: Give pedestrians about 15 
seconds to cross, and then let cars turn. The longer it 
takes to change the timing of the streetlights, the longer pedestrians are in danger of an inattentive driver.
Another problem lies with the crosswalks themselves, 
especially the ones parallel to West University Avenue. As of now, crosswalks are nestled at the very edge of the road. This puts people right in the action of trafﬁ  c every time one looks to continue walking University Avenue. Maybe pedestrians shouldn’t be so close to trafﬁ  c in crosswalks. But hey, here’s an idea: Repaint lines for the crosswalk parallel to Uni-versity Avenue 10 feet back from where they are right now. Then pedestrians wouldn’t be 
one lateral step from playing chicken with a 
car coming at 35 mph.
There is no doubt in the fact Gainesville is 
a college town. And like many college towns, Gainesville is a breeding ground for home-lessness, including West University Avenue. 
Signiﬁ  cant homeless populations in college towns origi-nate from student demand for housing close to campus, which drives housing rates to unaffordable levels for 
low-wage workers. What keeps homeless people in col-
lege towns is the willingness of students to succumb to panhandlers. According to a 2002 study by the Center for Problem-Oriented Policing, “The percentage of col-lege students who (give money to panhandlers) tends to be higher than that of the general population.”
Gainesville’s homelessness problem, which can’t be 
ﬁ  xed with programming or a bucket of paint, would have to be solved by institutions beyond UF and focus-
ing on problems beyond the conveniences of students 
walking on a street. It seems that because people sim-ply passively pass by homeless people on an everyday basis, homelessness has become ordinary. Looking to eradicate homeless people panhandling on University Avenue by eradicating Gainesville’s homelessness could increase Gainesville’s image as more than just some col-lege town, but as a city paving the way for solutions to problems that have plagued college towns for more than 
a decade.
As walking University Avenue surpasses merely 
strolling some road, so do the potential developments 
to the area. Improving it can possibly lead to a safer at-mosphere for students and a better image of Gainesville as a whole.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering 
freshman. His column appears on Wednesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
A bitter reminder: response to “Casual sex 
is not self-discovery or empowerment”
Transphobia and slut-shaming do not 
make someone a better feminist. In fact, say-ing that the victories won by transgender people somehow undermine one’s status as a white, cisgendered woman is a severe step in 
the other direction.
Intersectional feminism takes into account 
the fact that no one is constricted by just one 
identity — and with that in mind, it’s impor-tant to realize that as a white, cisgendered 
woman, one holds a position of power. The 
rally of transgender people is not about you. To use a very ﬁ  tting quote that has no known source: “When you’re accustomed to privi-lege, equality feels like oppression.” If you 
feel threatened by transgender people and 
their calls for equality, you need to, for lack of better terminology, “check your privilege.” Equality is not supposed to make you, as the 
person with more power, feel comfortable.
In regards to the argument against casual 
sex, all I have to say is that sex is whatev-
er you make it out to be, nothing more and nothing less. To one person, it may be the 
ultimate show of love. To someone else, it 
may just be another fun thing to do on Fri-days. Some people believe that sex is solely for procreation, some people think it’s a form of expressing desire, some people think it’s 
empowering.
I’ve known people who keep lists of their 
conquests. I’ve known people who’ve told 
me they get too attached to embark on ca-
sual sexcapades, and I’ve known people who 
would rather wait until marriage. All are val-id mentalities to have toward sex. What is not OK is making a sweeping generalization about the sex habits of women, especially 
in the name of feminism. I don’t care what 
ethnographic studies and obscure quotes are shoved my way about how casual sex is ruin-ing the women of this generation. The fact is the satisfaction and implications of casual 
sex depend on the person in question. A real 
feminist recognizes that and doesn’t decide to shame women who enjoy casual sex.
I like to think that feminism has come a 
long way in being more inclusive, but some-times I am bitterly reminded that those in power will continue to use feminism as a way to squelch the voices of those who struggle to be heard.
Petrana Radulovic
UF English and computer science juniorWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
In 1854, U.S. diplomats wrote to Secretary of State William Marcy in the Ostend Mani-
festo that the U.S. should try 
to either purchase Cuba from 
Spain or declare war on Spain and seize Cuba. Beginning with 
the tenure of Thomas Jefferson 
and John Quincy Adams, the U.S. tried to take possession of Cuba to extend economic control over the region and expand U.S. slave territory. 
As Adams declared, the acquisition of Cuba 
was “an object of transcendent importance to the commercial and political interests of our Union.”
As American politicians have always 
been a thoroughly disinterested bunch, the manifesto spurred a controversy, not for concern over the island’s right to sovereignty and self-determination, but rather Northern 
concern that Cuba would ﬁ  gure as one more 
Southern (slave) state, thus challenging Northern political and economic hegemony.
Cuba ofﬁ  cially obtained independence 
from Spain in 1898 and from the U.S. in 1902, although it continued to be ruled for the next half century as a neo-colony of the U.S. With the American design for Cuba fulﬁ  lled, our country exploited the island’s 
riches, inﬂ  uencing the political situation 
through organized crime and coercion while the denizens of the islands lived largely in abject poverty.
The period from 1959 to the present has 
been radically different from the U.S.’s side, as the scale of our engagement completely diminished following the Cuban Revolution and the failed Bay of Pigs invasion. In this 
period, per misplaced bitterness from both 
Washington and the Cubans who volun-tarily ﬂ  ed after 1959, our policy entailed the implementation of a total embargo. This hei-nous measure only amounted to the crushing of the Cuban people whilst Castro’s government con-
solidated its resources, and after 
some 60-odd years, the embargo has completely failed to shake the Castros from power.
This in turn entails the most of-
fensive aspect of our present dia-logue for me: Cuba is not “open-ing up.” The New York Times ran 
a piece on Sunday that claimed, “Though 
Cuban society has been closed off from the 
world for a half-century, there remains an uncanny openness about the nation’s peo-ple.”
The vision of the piece, in all its patron-
izing and inaccurate glory, is the one into which Americans have sadly been inculcat-ed: American saviors ready to storm into and save this sad Communist land of mojitos, old 
Chevys and Che posters.
The interesting aspect of the phrase “has 
been closed off” is that it is in the passive 
voice and we don’t know who “closed” 
Cuba. Was it Fidel? The U.S.? Aliens? It is 
clear nonetheless, within our neo-colonial narratives, that Cuba now ﬁ  gures into the space it always did before the revolution: one open for American political and eco-
nomic domination.
In the time Cuba has been “closed off,” it 
has managed to ensure universal healthcare 
and education, attain a 99.8 percent literacy 
rate and become the ﬁ  rst country to elimi-
nate mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Cuba presently has around 50,000 health workers volunteering in 66 countries, and Cuban doctors were among the ﬁ  rst to arrive 
in West Africa in the ﬁ  ght against the Ebola 
outbreak. The list goes on.
Research the history, look up the statis-
tics and you will see that the “normaliza-
tion” we see on TV is really just the U.S. 
ceasing its senseless barbarism and overt at-tacks against a country whose main “crime” was trying to implement its own system.
I fear Cuba is being re-colonized into a 
new U.S. playground destination, its re-sources and pristine environment soon to be subjugated to the almighty dollar and the whims of the “free market.”
Thus, I exhort Americans, as we observe 
and participate in this historic transition, not to accept the ridiculous trope that Cuba is “opening up,” when in fact it is the mind-set and actions of the U.S. that have been 
closed off to reason and decency for the past 
60 years. ¡Viva Cuba libre!
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics masters student. His column ap-
pears on Wednesdays.Cuba is not ‘opening up’ to the U.S.Column
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWith the end of the 
semester swiftly ap-proaching, students 
everywhere are 
scrambling to get in 
last-minute extra credit and ﬁ  -nalize plans for the upcoming 
break. Fortunately, there are 
tools and resources available to help students make the most of this important time. Below we have com-piled several of the most overlooked strat-
egies to help get an end-of-semester boost.
1. Digital learning tools: Utilizing digi-
tal resources is one of the easiest and most 
effective ways for students to step up 
classroom performance. Platforms such 
as Cengage Learning’s MindTap are spe-ciﬁ  cally designed to be customized to each student’s unique learning style and help improve time management, raise grades 
and increase a student’s success. 
Digital learning tools use a combina-
tion of reading, multimedia, activities and 
assessments to engage users, and maxi-
mize understanding and retention. 
Students who have integrated digital 
tools into their learning have reported 
signiﬁ  cant improvement in their grades and higher levels of engagement in their 
coursework.
2. E-Portfolios: With the market for 
internships and jobs becoming more 
competitive, it is critical for students to 
differentiate themselves among other 
candidates and show potential employers tangible examples of the skills and knowl-edge they possess. 
To help students put their best foot for-
ward, offerings like Pathbrite, a portfolio learning platform, can help students pack-age their accomplishments in a seamless and organized way in order to best high-
light their soft skills and practical experi-
ences. 
Presenting potential employers with 
a comprehensive demonstration of skills and accomplishments will give students 
the competitive edge to secure the top 
positions in their ﬁ  elds. As a bonus, any students using Cengage Learning digital solutions have free access to Pathbrite’s 
complete online portfolio platform.
3.Top-notch study materials: Wheth-
er it be ﬂ  ashcards, study guides or pop 
quizzes, study materials are a key part of successful studying. Unfortunately for 
many students, note-taking and develop-
ing study materials can be a major chal-lenge. Luckily, online market-places like Luvolearn.com make it possible for students to access 
high quality, course-speciﬁ  c 
study materials written by their peers. This allows students to maximize engagement and un-
derstanding — with 94 percent 
of students reporting improved grades! Even better, Luvo works 
with faculty and institutions to be sure content is accurate and ﬁ  ts school guide-
lines.
4.Peer tutors: Peer-to-peer learning is 
one of the most helpful ways to boost en-
gagement and retention in the classroom. 
Oftentimes, another student can explain a 
challenging concept or idea in a different way from a professor that makes it easier to understand or retain. 
With most schools offering free peer-
tutoring resources, students have access to support and advice from students who have already mastered the material. Utiliz-ing tutoring resources, even just once or 
twice, can have signiﬁ  cant results. Even 
better, studying with another student can result in better study habits or sharing of best practices to increase success.
5.Career centers: Students are enrolling 
in college with the goal of securing a job after they graduate.  With that in mind, getting practical, hands-on experience is crucial for landing a top job after gradua-
tion. Yet securing an internship can often 
feel like a daunting task, especially with students today already juggling myriad re-sponsibilities. To help prepare and guide students through the process, many col-
leges have career centers to provide stu-
dents with the resources and support to ﬁ  nd internships that align with their skills and interests. Moreover, these centers 
have knowledgeable staff who can help 
students practice interview skills, polish their resume and provide helpful advice about what to expect.
Being knowledgeable and taking ad-
vantage of the different resources and tools available is one of the best ways for students to boost their grades, improve classroom performance or land the job or 
internship out of school. 
Leveraging one — or all — of these tips 
can help students make the most of the 
time left in the semester and get the last-minute boost they need.
A version of this column originally ran 
on Cengage Learning’s website.Make it count: Get the most out 
of the end of the semesterUWire
“I fear Cuba is being re-
colonized into a new U.S. 
playground destination, 
its resources and 
pristine environment 
soon to be subjugated 
to the almighty dollar 
and whims of the 'free 
market.'”Speaking Out
UWireBy Graham Hack
Sports Writer
When Vernon Hargreaves III first 
picked up a football, this moment 
was already in his mind.
Cameras clicking, scouts from 
all 32 NFL teams lined up left and 
right, past and present UF play-
ers all there to see how the junior All-America cornerback stacked up 
against the measurements.
Some players might feel the pres-
sure of Pro Day, the last big evalua-
tion before the NFL Draft just more than five weeks away.
But for Hargreaves, this is what 
all his hard work has been building toward ever since he was in grade school.
The joy and excitement on his 
face told the story.
“As soon as I started playing 
football, I thought about making the NFL,” Hargreaves said, beaming ear to ear. “That’s just how I thought, that’s what I wanted to do.”
Ever since the Tampa native 
came to Florida, everyone knew 
what his future likely held.
Recruited as one of the best play-
ers and the sure-fire top cornerback 
out of high school, Hargreaves’ im-pact was felt immediately.
Playing behind veterans and then-highly ranked pro prospects Loucheiz Purifoy and Marcus Roberson in his first year, it was evident early that the freshman had 
the most raw talent on the field as 
he led the team in interceptions.By his sophomore year, he was 
no longer just the best defensive back on the team — he was the best in the country. 
Becoming a potential first round 
and possibly even top-10 pick be-came a reality under the tutelage of former head coach Will Muschamp and former defensive backs coach 
Travaris Robinson — both of whom the cornerback still keeps in touch 
with, as recently as hours before pro day began.
Robinson in particular helped 
Hargreaves gain the belief that there was no limit to his potential.
“He just gave me the confidence 
that you can do it,” Hargreaves said. “You can do whatever you 
want. You can go in the first round. You can be the first pick.
“From there I just took off, put 
my head down and I’ve been grind-
ing since I got here.”
His junior season was almost a 
formality given what he had already accomplished, and another solid year only solidified his stock.
He impressed enough at the com-
bine in Indianapolis that he felt no need to try to top his numbers, such as his 4.50 40-yard dash and a 39-inch vertical jump. Instead, he used his Pro Day to simply go through all the workouts for the scouts, giving them one last glimpse of what they will get on the field with his selec-tion.
After finishing, as he talked a 
mile a minute about his custom-made shoes, why he prefers to give Commissioner Roger Goodell a handshake over a hug and why his mother might make him cry on draft night, it was evident that his journey to the pros was nearly com-plete.
And it was the final moment of 
that journey that stood out most to the cornerback.
“The workout,” Hargreaves said, 
identifying his favorite part of this whole process. “Talking with the boys, getting the work in with the boys, one last time, finally. Just fin-ishing the workout and relaxing.”
@graham_hack24 
ghack@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman Alex McCalister leaps for a vertical jump test. 
Despite missing Florida’s final five games last season, the lanky 6-foot-6 edge rusher tied for the team lead with 6.5 sacks a year ago.
ABOVE:
UF coach Jim McElwain speaks with Baltimore Ravens linebackers coach Don Martindale. “The response from the scouts has been outstanding in kind of how our guys handle themselves, not only in the workouts but all the interviews, ” McElwain said. “It’s great to see. ”
LEFT:
Pictured are cornerback Vernon Hargreaves’ specially designed white Under Armour shoes with the word “T ampa” spray painted on them, an homage to his hometown. Hargreaves is projected to be a top-10 pick in May’s draft.
Photos by Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Safety Keanu Neal finishes his 40-yard dash. Known for his hard-hitting nature and vocal presence on the field, Neal opted to forego his senior year to pursue an NFL career. “It was hard, but living the dream, taking that next step is something that you dream about when you’re a kid, ” Neal said.
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
All-America cornerback Vernon Hargreaves III catches a pass during a drill as part of Florida’s Pro Day on Tuesday inside UF’s indoor practice facility. Eighteen UF football players, 15 of whom were on the team last season, practiced in front of 70 scouts and assistant coaches representing all 32 NFL teams ahead of May’s NFL Draft.
He’s projected to be a top-10 pickHargreaves’ UF career comes to conclusion at Pro Day
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman Jon Bullard walks past scouts and members of the media after warming up. After a breakout senior season (17.5 tackles for loss, 6.5 sacks), he is projected to be a late first-round or second-round pick. “Every team has their opinion. ... It just takes one team to like you, ” Bullard said.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-23-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease @ Lux13 Apartments!3 Bed/3 Bath with screened patioW/D, Cable, Internet, & HBO$1,222/mo & Pet FriendlyAvail. April 1st , 985-974-5404    3-28-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 2For Rent
unfurnished 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Look Where You’re Going! 
Don’t T ext & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride! Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ACROSS
1 Tatum O’Neal
played one in
“The Bad News
Bears”
7 Burn a tad
11 Keystone
bumbler
14 Running by itself
15 Drought-ridden16 Suffix with infant17 *Freebie with
fries
19 Woodworking
tool
20 Kosher deli
offering
21 Sipped sherry,
say
23 Nails, as a test24 Baptism
receptacle
25 How some Bibles
present Jesus’words
28 Secure with a
seat belt
30 Stool pigeon32 Barrister’s
topper
33 Playing card
symbol
34 Chief Valhalla
god
35 Whiskey barrel
wood
38 *Spicy Chinese
dish withchicken andpeanuts
41 Big name in ice
cream
42 It may be gray44 In medias __45 Dr. Mom’s forte
47 Source of early
clothing?
49 With 56-Across,
blamed for
53 Antique photo
54 Heavy hauler56 See 49-Across57 Recognition59 Fund60 Part of dpi62 *Of its species,
only the emperoris larger
64 747, e.g.65 Cyberzine66 Inner strength67 Wily68 Very best69 Verne __, Mini-
Me portrayer inAustin PowersfilmsDOWN
1 Gertrude Stein
confidante Alice
B. __
2 Like Chekhov’s
“A MarriageProposal”
3 “As a __ of fact ...”
4 Firewood-sizing
tool
5 Will-wisp link
6 Thou, now7 Political channel8 Intellectually
stimulatingexperience
9 Conquistador’s
chest
10 Weave anew11 *South Korean
subcompact
12 Antique13 Brick-shaped
candy
18 Unit of loudness22 It may be
supplied at abooth, briefly
24 Work (out)26 Writer Bagnold27 Seventh Avenue
fashion initials
29 Water__: oral
irrigator
31 “So what?” feeling33 Family-friendly
ratings35 Big galoots
36 Grammy winner
India.__
37 *Beer pong
venue
39 “Ready for forty
winks?”
40 Portuguese hi43 Symptom ending
46 Held fast
48 Dishonest
activity
49 Kid’s summer
spot50 Mil. grunt work,
and a hint to the
answers tostarred clues
51 French star52 Real drag55 Gibson’s “Lethal
Weapon” role
58 Stretch __
59 Cabinet dept.
60 Nightcap
complement
61 Sushi fish
63 CPR pro
By Matt Skoczen©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/23/1603/23/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 23, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery DriversClosing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches hiring part-time deli help/closer and day availability.Apply at 2327 NW 13th St location. Must have reliable transportation.    3-24-16-5-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
1. LITERATURE: How many words 
is Shakespeare credited with invent-
ing?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
Irish dish called colcannon made of?
3. ASTRONOMY: What is the third 
planet from the Sun in our solar sys-tem?
4. HISTORY: Who was Britain’s 
first female prime minister? 
5. SCIENCE: What is the scientific 
study of fingerprints called?
6. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
country of Palau located?
7. ANATOMY: Where are the three 
smallest bones in the human body found?
8. MATH: How many different ways 
can you make change for a dollar?
9. QUOTATIONS: What 20th-cen-
tury mythologist made the observa-tion, “We must be willing to let go of the life we planned so as to have the 
life that is waiting for us”?
10. FLAGS: What color is the maple 
leaf on Canada’s flag?
Answers
1. More than 1,700
2. Cabbage and mashed potatoes3. Earth4. Margaret Thatcher5. Dermatoglyphics6. Western Pacific Ocean7. The middle ear
8. 293
9. Joseph Campbell10. Red
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 21, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 25 Lost & Found
Headline
Story description Pg#
Sam Wagner led the Florida 
women's golf team in its first-place finish at the Briar's Creek Invitational.Read the story on pg. 16.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Nelson Maldonado slid into third with a 
triple, but he wasn’t satisfied.
After the freshman ripped a game-tying 
triple down the right-field line in the second 
inning, he popped up off the bag and raced home on a bad throw to third that scooted away from third baseman Austin Langham.“I got to third and I saw the ball behind 
me so I took off to home,” Maldonado said. “I was tired. I knew I was running kinda slow but I made it.” 
Behind Maldonado’s efforts and Florida's 
bullpen, No. 1 UF (22-1) defeated FAU 2-1 Tuesday night at McKethan Stadium.
UF has won 16 in a row and tied a school 
record for most consecutive home wins with 
24.  Florida coach Kevin O’Sullivan said the 
players deserve all the credit for the streak.
“We coach them up in fall and early spring 
and give them the scouting report before the 
game and try to get them in the right frame of 
mind, but they gotta go out and play,” he said. 
It didn’t take long for the Owls (15-4) to 
ruffle UF starting pitcher Jackson Kowar’s 
feathers.
On Kowar’s second pitch of the first inning, 
Owls' second baseman Stephen Kerr blasted a solo home run to left to seize a 1-0 lead.
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Nelson Maldonado bats during Florida's 2-1 win over Florida Atlantic on Tuesday at McKethan Stadium.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF track and field athlete wins SEC Freshman of the Week
Florida's Anders Eriksson was named the Southeastern Conference Track 
and Field Men's Freshman of the Week on Tuesday. Eriksson came in first in the hammer throw at the Black and Gold Challenge last weekend.Florida edges past FAU for 16th straight win
FLORIDA HAS PLAYED 
ALL OF ITS TOURNAMENT 
GAMES ON THE ROAD.
By Alex Maminakis 
Sports Writer
For the first time since 1999, 
the Gators will play in their 
third-consecutive true road 
game tonight in Washington 
D.C. 
No. 2 seed Florida visits the 
nation’s capital for its National Invitation Tournament quarter-final game against No. 4 seed George Washington at 7. 
With construction underway 
at the O’Connell Center, Flor-ida is unable to host any NIT games, but playing games away from home has been a good test 
for the Gators — one they have 
fully accepted. 
“It’s actually testing our abil-
ity to play on the road,” forward Kevarrius Hayes said. 
“Knowing how hard it is to play a road game, and for us to go and 
still make it 
happen will 
boost our con-fidence even more.”
In Florida’s 
first two NIT games, the Gators lit up North Florida with a sea-son-high 16 three-pointers in Jacksonville and then earned 
the program’s first ever win in Columbus against Ohio State. 
Florida held a 4-8 record dur-
ing the regular season in true 
road games.
Coach Mike White said his 
team has handled playing on the road in the postseason very well, and that the Gators (21-14) 
are playing with increased con-
fidence on the offensive end of the court away from home.
“We’re just in more of a flow, 
more of a rhythm,” White said. Gators face George Washington in NIT tonightMEN'S GOLF
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
The Floridian Golf Club in 
Palm City has never been kind to 
the Florida Gators. 
The last time the Gators teed 
off on the par-71 course in 2014, 
they finished second to last.
And Wednesday’s final round 
at the Valspar Collegiate was no 
better.
The No. 2 Florida men’s golf 
team battled a tough course and blustery conditions to finish the 54-hole event at plus 57, four shots behind 14th-place Georgia 
Tech, giving second-year coach 
J.C. Deacon his first last-place fin-ish as UF’s head coach. 
The Gators’ 57-over total 
marked the squad’s worst over-all score in an event since shoot-
ing 65 over at the Fighting Illini 
Invitational in September 2013 in then-head coach Buddy Alexan-der’s final season with the team.
“It’s one that you want to learn 
from a little bit and forget,” Dea-con said in a release. “It wasn’t a very successful week, for whatev-er reason, and I’m sure it’s going 
to make us better.” 
This tournament was an anom-
aly for an otherwise consistent 
squad. The Gators hadn’t finished outside the top three in any event this spring and were coming off a runner-up finish at the Southern Highlands Collegiate on March 9. 
To put into perspective just 
how poorly the Gators played, the winner of the Valspar, No. 4 Tex-as, ended the tournament at plus 3 — 54 shots ahead of Florida.
“Obviously, it wasn’t our best 
golf and was the end to a really tough week,” Deacon said. “I hope it’s a wake up call.”
The individual winner of the 
event earned an exemption to compete in the PGA Tour’s Val-spar Championship in 2017, some-thing  Deacon said would provide his team with extra motivation coming into the event. 
Instead, the Gators will be 
watching the event on TV, as no Florida player finished inside the top 15.
UF’s top golfer, Sam Horsfield, UF finishes in 
last for first 
time under 
Deacon  
SEE BASEBALL,   PAGE 15
SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 15White
UF has won its last 24 home games14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
GYMNASTICS
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
For the country’s No. 2-ranked 
gymnastics team, a typical prac-
tice session should be anything 
but relaxed.
However, with head coach 
Jenny Rowland at the helm, a typ-
ical training day takes on a more 
light-hearted air. 
“I feel that it’s really important 
just to keep the atmosphere light, (keep it) enjoyable,” Rowland 
said. 
“Have fun, tease them, laugh 
with them. When you’re having a good time, enjoying what you’re 
doing, you’re gonna be more suc-
cessful.”
On any given day, some of the 
sport’s top competitors take the 
O’Connell Center’s practice mat 
looking to hone their craft. 
Fielding a roster populated 
with seven International Elite gymnasts and an additional seven 
Level-10 competitors, Florida isn’t 
short on talent.
And with 15 Senior National 
Team selections between two 
different countries mixed in, the 
Gators boast a level of experience unique to most top collegiate pro-grams in the country. 
Given Florida’s high rank-
ing and expectations, it’s easy to imagine a practice environment run by authoritative coaches who advocate control over enjoyment. 
Rowland, though, subscribes 
to a different philosophy, electing to lead as a guide rather than a dictator. 
“Everybody gets a little tired 
here and there, and everybody 
needs a little push, a little nudge 
here and there, and that’s what we’re here for,” she said. “My job is to be able to rec-
ognize, ‘OK, we’re not quite on point right now, let’s step up our 
game and let’s continue to move 
forward a little bit.’ But for the most part, if one girl is motivated … she can help carry the rest of the team, and it’s contagious.”
It’s Rowland’s laissez-faire 
style that has endeared her to 
both fans and athletes. 
It’s also one of the main rea-
sons for Florida’s recent success.
After steering the program to 
its 10th Southeastern Conference title on Saturday, Rowland and 
her staff are a top-two Regionals finish away from securing a berth to the National Championships. 
But even though the stakes 
are rising with each passing day, Rowland has no plans to tweak her system. 
“This team, they’re on point. 
They know what their prize is,” Rowland said. 
“It’s a common goal, and 
there’s nothing that I need to do 
in addition to what we’re already 
doing for them, to keep them mo-tivated.
“I know it’s very cliché — ev-
erybody says ‘you know, just 
have fun, just have fun’ — but, 
in all reality, in this sport, some-times your mind takes over so much that you need a distraction. 
… Just keep it light and keep the 
energy up in the gym, and you know it’ll carry over.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgRowland, Florida stressing enjoyment during practice 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jenny Rowland looks on during UF’s win over North Carolina on March 11 in the O’Connell Center. 
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
The reigning four-time Southeastern 
Conference swimming and diving cham-pions begin their toughest four days of 
competition today.
The No. 3-ranked Gators will start 
their quest for a national championship 
in Atlanta as part of the men’s NCAA 
Championships. 
Florida is looking to claim the pro-
gram’s third national championship and 
its first in more than 30 years. 
“We have a good group of a guys here 
that are looking forward to competition,” coach Gregg Troy said. 
The Gators will enter Atlanta as one of 
the favorites to win the title. 
In their last meet — the SEC Champi-
onships in Columbia, Missouri, in Febru-ary — the Gators competed against what Troy referred to as their toughest confer-ence competition in his 19-year tenure at 
Florida. 
Six of the other nine competing SEC 
teams were ranked in the top 25. 
Despite the stiff competition, the 
Gators found their stride and won their 
fourth straight consecutive SEC Champi-onship. 
Part of the formula to Florida’s success 
was its ability to win the relays. Unlike 
typical individual races, points awarded in relay events are worth double. 
In the five relay events at the SEC 
meet, the Gators were victorious in four of them. 
One of their four relay victories came 
in the 800-yard freestyle relay, which 
will be the first and only event today in 
Atlanta. 
Florida’s SEC-winning time of 6:13.64 
in the 800 was the second fastest in the 
nation this season. 
The Gators’ quartet for that victory 
included senior Pawel Warner, junior Mitch D’Arrigo and sophomores Mark 
Szaranek and Jan Switkowski. 
While it is unclear if Troy will stick 
to this lineup for today’s relay, all four 
swimmers did qualify for the NCAA meet. 
But regardless of who qualified, the 
Gators will need to match, if not beat, their season-best time in the 800 if they want to make an early championship statement.
“We’ll see where we’re at and see 
what we can do,” Troy said. 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org Florida men’s team begins NCAA championship meet today
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mitch D’Arrigo swims during Florida’s loss to Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell 
Center.
“W e have a good group of a guys 
here that are looking forward to 
competition.”
Gregg Troy
UF swimming coachSWIMMING AND DIVINGWEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
But in the second inning, Florida’s fresh-
men fired back to score a pair of runs.
Deacon Liput ripped a one-out double to 
left field and then scored on the triple from 
Maldonado, who also scored.
Kowar settled down after his two-hit first 
inning.
The Charlotte, North Carolina, native 
worked scoreless second, third and fourth 
innings, striking out five batters over that span.
But in the fifth, he ran into trouble.O’Sullivan pulled Kowar after a walk 
and a hit-by-pitch and replaced him with junior Frank Rubio. Rubio then prevented 
any damage by inducing an inning ending 
double play on his second pitch to Kerr.
Rubio, who earned his first win of the 
season, said the double play was huge in 
terms of momentum.
“I knew it was Jackson’s runs out there,” 
Rubio said. “I think I take even more pride 
in making sure I don’t cash someone else’s runs in.”
An inning later, O’Sullivan’s situational 
tactics worked again.
Scott Moss relieved Rubio on the mound 
with two outs and two runners on and 
struck out Sean Labsan looking to end the 
inning.In the bottom of the sixth, the Gators had 
a chance to bust open the game.
Maldonado came to the plate after Flori-
da loaded the bases on a Guthrie single, an Alonso hit-by-pitch and a Liput walk. But 
the Tampa native chopped a groundout to 
the pitcher to end the threat.
In the seventh inning, O’Sullivan called 
on junior Dane Dunning to help hold the 2-1 lead.
Dunning inherited a runner but struck 
out a pair to close out the inning. The Flem-ing Island native tossed a scoreless eighth inning before junior Kirby Snead and fresh-
man Brady Singer combined to close the 
door in the ninth inning. O’Sullivan said it was tough in a 2-1 
game, but he got all of the bullpen arms in the game that he wanted to.
“The plan worked,” he said, “but often 
times it can go awry in a hurry.”
With an away series versus Kentucky 
looming this weekend, O’Sullivan said it was important to get innings out of some relievers who hadn't seen action in a while.
“We won a ballgame where everybody 
got the work that they needed,” he said. “So we feel at least a little bit better going into the weekend.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Junior right-hander Rubio earned his first win of the season
“Guys are in a pretty good attack mode. Kasey’s playing downhill, Dorian’s as confident as he’s 
been all year ... Devin’s shooting 
it a little bit better than he was early in the season. KeVaughn’s not so much a freshman as he 
was earlier in the year."
In its first two NIT games, 
Florida shot a combined 48.5 
percent from the field (64-for-132) and 43.1 percent from be-yond the arc (22-for-51). 
White, on Tuesday, said the 
reason for Florida's recent suc-cess is simple: UF is shooting the ball better. 
The team is using its new-
found momentum as motivation in the NIT, but it's also looking to gain experience for the future, 
especially for some of the young-
er players. 
“We would have loved to get this cohesiveness earlier in the season, but it’s good to know 
how capable we are when we 
play well,” Hayes said.
 “We can use this momentum 
to kind of build up what our next 
season’s gonna be like. It’s good 
to see kinda where we’re headed right now.”
But the focus today is on 
George Washington (25-10), a 
team Florida hasn’t faced in D.C. 
in over 75 years. 
White and Hayes are both 
looking forward to sight-seeing 
in the nation’s capital before the 
game, but White made it clear that “we don’t want to get our brains beat in too bad” and lose focus of the objective — beating 
the Colonials. 
A renewed sense of energy 
has carried Florida since its 72-
66 loss to Texas A&M in the SEC 
Tournament. 
A win tonight in D.C. can earn 
Florida a spot in the NIT’s final four in Madison Square Garden. 
“I think for the most part 
there’s a sense of pride right now 
in our locker room,” White said, “that we responded the right 
way. We’re in the NIT, but we’ve 
capitalized on a couple opportu-nities...We hope that continues.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgBASKETBALL,  from pg 13UF has shot 43.1 percent in NIT playhad a tough time navigating the 
7,114-yard trek. The freshman struggled to get going all day, card-ing three bogeys and three birdies on his way to an even-par 71, giv-
ing him a share of 20th place at 
five over par. Wednesday marked the first time Horsfield failed to break par in at least one round of a tournament since the Tavistock Collegiate back in October.
Freshman Jorge Garcia couldn’t 
find any rhythm on Day 2. Garcia’s 3-over 74 gave him an 11-over to-
tal and a share of 50th place — the 
worst finish of his career. 
In three rounds, freshman Ky-
ler Tate recorded only three bird-ies. A 5-over 76 in Round 3 left him at 20 over par and in a tie 69th. 
Senior Richard Donegan’s 
6-over 77 capped off the Gators’ 
top-four scorers. It was Donegan’s 
only round to count toward the team competition.
The Gators don’t have much 
time to figure things out.
One stop remains until UF trav-
els to St. Simons, Georgia, to com-
pete in the Southeastern Confer-
ence Championship. 
Up next, the Gators will head 
to Franklin, Tennessee, to tee off 
at the Vanderbilt Legends Club in 
the Mason Rudolph Champion-ship on April 2 and 3. 
“We’ll see how the this team 
reacts,” Deacon said. “This is go-ing to test our leadership and re-silience, and it’s going to be fun watching how these guys bounce back.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgMEN'S GOLF,  from pg 13Freshman Horsfield finished in 20th place at 5 over par
"Obviously, it wasn’t our best 
golf and was the end to a 
really tough week,”
J.C. Deacon
Men's golf coach
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield follows through on a swing during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course.
AP Photo
Kasey Hill drives into the paint during Florida's 72-66 loss to T exas A&M on March 11 in the Southeastern Conference T ournament.“W e would have loved to get 
this cohesiveness earlier in the 
season, but it’s good to know 
how capable we are when we 
play well. W e can use this 
momentum to kind of build up 
what our next season’s gonna 
be like. It’s good to see kinda 
where we’re headed right 
now.”
Kevarrius Hayes 
UF forward16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
No. 8 UF took home its third consecu-
tive and ﬁ  fth overall victory of the season 
on Tuesday, widening its lead from Mon-
day’s back-to-back rounds and giving Flor-
ida its most single-season victories since Emily Glaser became coach in 2012 .
The Gators ﬁ  nished the 54-hole tourna-
ment at 6 under par with a total score of 858. Indiana and Clemson rounded out the top three with scores of 5 and 6 over par, respectively. 
“We really had it going for a while to-
day. It was fun to watch. The course was very scorable this morning, and we took advantage of it,” Glaser said in a release. “The thing I was most proud of this week 
was the conversation the team was having 
after the round. They were already talking about the future and how we are going to get better. This is a motivated group, and they are so much fun to coach.”
Florida enjoyed an 11-stroke victory  
largely due to the efforts of freshman Sa-mantha Wagner. The Windermere native ﬁ  nished in a tie for ﬁ  fth place, her second 
top-10 ﬁ  nish of the year. 
Wagner ﬁ  nished the tournament with a 
4-under 212 due to consecutive under-par 
rounds on Day 1. 
With three birdies on the front nine and 
her only bogey on the fourth hole, Wagner was heading toward a potential top-three ﬁ  nish. 
But she followed up a birdie on the 10th 
hole with bogeys on the 13th, 16th and 17th holes, causing  her to fall two spots in the ﬁ  nal round.
“I thought it was a really good week,” 
Wagner said. “I felt pretty solid about it, 
there’s still a lot of stuff to learn from, but 
that was pretty good.”
Joining Wagner in the top 10, junior 
Kelly Grassel (75-67-71) managed to climb 
up from her 39th-place standing. 
Her rise up the leaderboard could be 
attributed to her second-round score of 5 
under par, which featured ﬁ  ve birdies with four on the front nine alone. The junior managed to stay one stroke below par to clinch a tie for seventh place. 
Junior Maria Torres ﬁ  nished the tourna-
ment at 1 over par after shooting even par in Tuesday’s round. 
However, the back nine did not go her 
way. The junior closed with four bogeys. 
After birdies on the third, ﬁ  fth and 10th 
holes, however, Torres managed to ﬁ  nish just one stroke over par and in a tie for 13th place.Junior Karolina Vlckova was one of just 
two Gators to improve across the three rounds. The Unhošt, Czech Republic, na-tive ended the third round at even par and 
plus 3 for the tournament. 
Vlckova had struggled the last two 
rounds due to three double-bogeys across 
the two days. 
But she managed to keep her ﬁ  nal 
round even by matching every bogey with a birdie throughout the 18 holes. Vlckova ﬁ  nished just outside the top 25, landing in a tie for 27th place.
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson improved 
eight and ﬁ  ve strokes between the three rounds. However, paired with a day one score of 11 over par, the Gainesville native ﬁ  nished in a tie for 66th place after climb-ing 19 spots in the third round.
Florida’s next tournament will be the 
Clemson Invitation in Sunset, South Caro-lina, on April 1. This will be UF’s last event of the regular season, as it begins South-
eastern Conference Championship play on 
April 15.
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.org
UF women’s golf picks up win at Briar’s Creek Invitational
Wagner tied for ifth place at 4 under par
Karolina Vlckova (right) cele-
brates with coach Emily Gla-ser during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Alligator File Photo 