By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Vincent van Gogh may have enjoyed 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens’ observance 
of the starry night.
About 3,000 people attend the annual 
Moonlight Walk on Saturday from 7 p.m. 
to 11 p.m. The event included live music, 
food vendors and twinkling lights.
Abe Christian, the semi-retired store 
manager of Verizon and volunteer coor-dinator of Kanapaha Botanical Gardens, managed the mob of people who tried to enter through the park’s only entrance.
The 37-year-old said about 30 to 40 vol-
unteers signed up to help with the event.
Despite the large crowd, the high school 
students and ROTC members who volun-teered were prepared.  
“We’re very efﬁ  cient with our training,” 
Christian said.
Once visitors paid the entrance fee  of 
$14 for adults and $7 for children, with a $4 discount for members, they could lis-ten to live music from Keith Peters Talk-
ing Stick Band, purchase food from various vendors, explore the 1.25-mile walkway 
leading to a ﬁ  eld of lights and telescopes or just lay in the grass with their loved ones.
Paula McLain, a member of the Ala-
chua Astronomy Club, brought laser light machines to Kanapaha with her husband, Clint McLain, to let people connect with the stars. 
“You’re all made of stars,” she said as 
she spoke to visitors dancing and taking pictures of themselves covered in green and red laser lights.
Other members of the AAC brought 
their personal telescopes or binoculars, setting up about 10 in a ﬁ  eld and pointing them at the moon or Jupiter.
Andy Howell, the president of the AAC 
for three-and-a-half years, showed visitors three of Jupiter’s four bright moons: Io, Europa and Ganymede.
About 15 people from the astronomy 
club registered to attend the event, a typi-cal number from the group’s 110 members, the 66-year-old said.
“We’ve been here for at least 10 years,” 
Howell said.
One of Howell’s favorite objects to view in the night sky is Jupiter, which he said is bright and easy to see.
Howell was pleased with the timing of 
this year’s event, as the moon was one day past ﬁ  rst quarter, which is a misnomer for the half moon, he said.
“Sometimes we don’t have clear skies 
like this,” the retired Air Force space sys-tems analyst said. 
Brandon Miller was one of hundreds of 
people to observe the moon up-close Sat-urday night.  
“It’s like you’re right there looking at 
it,” he said after ﬁ  nishing his turn at the scope.
The 22-year-old air conditioning techni-
cian said it was his second year attending Kanapaha’s Moonlight Walk.
The ambiance created by the approxi-
mately 1,500 candles and luminaries was his favorite part of this year’s walk, he 
said.
“It’s a pretty awesome experience,” 
Miller said. “I’d do it again.”
@emmaginable
egreen@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 147 TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
UF’s home-run leader injured
Alonso hurt his hand against Vanderbilt, pg. 14
Rose named after Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings
Her dream was fulﬁ  lled 63 years after her death, pg. 4
Museum unveils Butterﬂ  y Rainforest theme
The new theme highlights butterﬂ  y wrangling, pg. 9GNV resident charged with abuse
Read this story online at alligator.org
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Jessica Millar, a 23-year-old UF College of Medicine graduate student, stares into Jared Fish’s eyes while relaxing in the grass 
during Kanapaha’s Moonlight Walk. “It was really cute, ” Millar said.  See page 3 for more photos.
By Cameron Cobb
Alligator Contributing Writer
Though May is Military Appreciation 
Month, thousands of veterans make use of 
resources throughout Alachua County all 
year. 
About 650 veterans and 160 active-du-
ty students currently attend UF, Anthony 
DeSantis, the associate dean of students, 
wrote in an email. 
USA Today recognized UF as the No. 5 
college for veterans in 2015, and Victory 
Media recently designated the university as a 2016 Military Friendly School. 
The Counseling and Wellness Center 
provides free mental health assistance to military students, DeSantis wrote. Veterans can utilize UF’s Collegiate Veterans Suc-
cess Center to learn about other resources.
U.S. Air Force veteran Kirsten Berling 
works as a graduate assistant with the 
Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce. Berling said she 
encourages veterans to seize available op-
portunities.
“Whichever resource (veterans) are 
looking for, it probably exists on campus,” she said. 
About 18,500 veterans are registered to 
the Alachua County Veteran Services Of-ﬁ  ce, said Nick McMillen, the senior ofﬁ  ce assistant for ACVS. 
He said plenty of resources are avail-
able to the county’s veterans, including the Military Support Group of Alachua County, Veterans For Peace Chapter 14 and Chapter Three of Florida’s Rolling Thunder, Inc. 
Kim Smith, a U.S. Navy and Florida 
Army National Guard veteran, said veter-ans sometimes experience a difﬁ  cult transi-tion after their service. 
“Veterans are often proud of what 
they’ve accomplished in the military,” said 
Smith, the director for ACVS, “and some-
times the civilian side doesn’t understand what they mean when they (share) their accomplishments.”  Resources 
for veterans across AlachuaAnnual Moonlight Walk
Thousands turned out to Kanapaha GardensLOCAL
“Veterans are often proud of what 
they’ve accomplished in the military, 
and sometimes the civilian side doesn’t 
understand what they mean when they 
(share) their accomplishments.”
Kim Smith
director for ACVSSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.HIGH  84° LOW  76°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
will host an Open House with refreshments Tuesday at the regular 5:45 p.m. meeting. The 
event will be in UF’s Entomology 
Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Dr., Rm 1031. Learn about Toastmasters’ program of public speaking and leadership achieve-
ment. For details, go to talkingga-
tors.toastmastersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and posi-tive learning experience in which members are empowered to de-
velop communication and lead-
ership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Yellowstone tourists put bison 
calf in car, spurring warning 
HELENA, Mont. (AP) — A bison 
calf that tourists loaded into their vehicle at Yellowstone National Park because they were con-cerned for its welfare could not be reunited with its herd and had to be euthanized, park officials said Monday as they reasserted the importance of avoiding wild-life.
Visitors brought the newborn calf 
to a park facility May 9, which 
officials called a dangerous move 
because adult bison are protec-
tive and will attack to defend 
their young. Rangers took the an-
imal back to where it was picked 
up, but they could not get it back 
with the herd after several tries.
“The bison calf was later eutha-
nized because it was abandoned 
and causing a dangerous situa-
tion by continually approaching 
people and cars along the road-
way,” the park said in a state-
ment.The visitors were cited for touch-ing park wildlife and fined $110, 
Yellowstone spokeswoman 
Charissa Reid said. She declined 
to name the visitors or issue a copy of the citation amid the in-vestigation.In another recent case, a woman was seen on video trying to pet an adult bison as it rested on the boardwalk around Old Faithful. In another, tourists posed for photos dangerously close to bi-son that had caused a traffic jam on a road.Five visitors were seriously in-jured last year after getting too close to the massive animals.Approaching wildlife also can 
affect their well-being and sur-
vival, possibly causing mothers to reject their offspring, park of-ficials said.
Such reminders are included on 
Yellowstone’s website, in infor-
mation handed to visitors as they come in and on signs throughout the park, Reid said.
“This year we’ve added transla-
tions of the safety signage and 
provide park newspaper trans-lations in a number of different languages,” she said in a state-ment.
The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome, Kaelah Scheff  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Matthews Silva. Donovan Vazquez  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 147
TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
STARRY NIGHT
Petra Mazzi, 11, left, stands in a light ﬁ  eld at Kanapaha Botanical 
Gardens while wearing a “cat-wolf-Dutch-angel-dragon hybrid” furry, which she made out of mesh and foam. Elsa Panning, 11, right, wears Mazzi’s “wolf-cat-dragon” furry.  Photos by Emma Green
Alligator Staff Photographer
Three-year-old Lily Rehm, wearing a glowing necklace in honor of her parents, who were at the Tioga May Day Glow Run, frolics in a circular maze with other children at Kanapaha Botanical Gardens on Saturday.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings had two dreams 
that didn’t come true. 
The ﬁ  rst was to win a Nobel Prize, and the 
second was to have a rose named after her. 
She won a Pulitzer Prize before her death in 
1953, and now, 63 years later, a rose is regis-
tered under her name.
Two professors at Florida Southern College 
— literature professor Keith Huneycutt and rose expert Malcolm Manners — collaborated to make Rawlings’ dream a reality. 
“She’s ﬁ  nally going to get her rose,” 
Huneycutt said.  
The pair contacted Art Wade, who owns 
a rose nursery in Newberry, Florida, to help grow the new rose.
Elaine Spencer, the president of the Friends 
of Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings Farm, and Val-erie Rivers, the manager of the Marjorie Kin-nan Rawlings Historic State Park, joined Wade and Huneycutt to cut a ribbon in honor of the rose.  
Spencer’s father, a humanities professor at 
UF for 25 years, often had Rawlings as a guest speaker in his classes. 
“I was only 9-years-old when she died,” 
Spencer said. “I would have loved to meet her.”
Rawlings’ relationship with UF was more 
than just a few guest appearances. After her death, her manuscripts were donated to the school and placed in Smathers Library. In 1958, UF opened Rawlings Hall, named in her honor.
Florence Turcotte, a literary manuscripts 
archivist, is responsible for Rawlings’ docu-ments. 
Turcotte said it’s nice Rawlings’ farm is 
close to UF. Students are able to read about 
Rawlings at the Smathers Library and then visit 
her property. “The idea is you slip inside the grounds and 
you’re in the ’30s and ’40s,” she said. “The papers are given ﬂ  esh by my referring people 
to her home, and when people want to learn 
more they come to the library.”
On Sunday, more than 50 people gathered 
at Rawlings’ home, which is now maintained as a Florida State Park in Cross Creek.
Three Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings rosebush-
es were planted in a ﬂ  owerbed built outside the home.
Just before the dedication, a deer ate the 
new blooms on the rosebushes, said Lowell Garrett, a member of the board of directors for the Friends of Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings Farm.
During the celebration, two names were 
drawn out of a hat to win Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings rosebushes. 
Marshi Huneycutt, Keith Huneycutt’s wife, 
won a rosebush.
John Lowry then became the second win-
ner.
“I was excited,” he said. “I love ﬂ  owers, I 
love plants, and it’s what I do to entertain my-self these days.” 
The afternoon concluded with refresh-
ments, lemonade and gingerbread made in Rawlings’ own kitchen. 
“I hadn’t been out here for probably 30 
years,” Lowry said. “It’s nice to be back; not 
much has changed.” 
@TWITTER
cdickson@alligator.org Professors name rose after Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
From left to right, Art Wade, Elaine Spencer, Valerie Rivers and Keith Honeycutt 
cut the ribbon to usher in the Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings rose. It was dedicated to the author on Sunday afternoon at the Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings House and Farm.
THE EVENT IS FOR 
PATIENTS, PARENTS 
AND CAREGIVERS.
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer
Richard Rowell’s son, Nolan, 
had to undergo heart surgery at just 
three-weeks-old. 
Doctors diagnosed Nolan with a heart defect while he was still in ute-ro. Consequently, Rowell searched for a support group on Facebook and found Broken Hearts of Florida. 
The organization, which hopes to 
educate the public about congenital heart diseases, held its annual May Day Picnic on Saturday afternoon at Lake Wauburg’s North Park.
“Broken Hearts helped us be-
forehand because we knew nothing about this,” he said. “It really helps raise awareness.” 
Caretakers spent time with the 
kids as they jumped down an inﬂ  at-able waterslide, played in the lake and had their faces painted.
Karen Thurston started Broken 
Hearts of Florida when her son, Wil-liam, was born with a heart defect 
and she needed a support group. 
“I think what everyone enjoys the most about this event is to see 
caregivers outside the clinic set-ting,” said Thurston, who serves as the executive director for the orga-nization. 
Another patient, Bailey Abbott, 
7, is in generally good health after one heart surgery and regular check-ups. 
Different parents at the hospi-
tal told her mother, Ashley Abbott, about the organization two years ago.
“The hardest part is seeing that 
they are so fragile and not knowing what the outcome is going to be,” she said. “Having the support from the organization is really what helps you.”  
@TWITTER
jrodriguez@alligator.org
Broken Hearts of Florida  holds annual May Day PicnicTHE EXHIBIT FEATURES 
INTERACTIVE STATIONS 
AND MYSTERY GAMES.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Equal parts haunted mansion 
and murder mystery, the Florida 
Museum of Natural History cel-ebrated the opening of its Wicked Plants Exhibit on Saturday. The 
exhibit will be on display until 
Jan. 15, 2017. 
The exhibit ﬁ  nds interesting 
ways to show guests the effects of various types of poisonous and intoxicating plants by interactive stations that replicate physical and mental sensations without risk of harm. 
Based off of Amy Stewart’s 
book “Wicked Plants: The Weed That Killed Lincoln’s Mother,” the exhibit opens into the garden of an abandoned Victorian house. Guests walk through the story by going through various rooms while learning about different kinds of toxic and invasive plants found 
around the house and around the 
world, said Chelsea Collison, an educational director at the mu-seum.
“It’s creepy and fun and educa-
tional,” she said.
Each room features a differ-
ent theme, from foul ﬂ  owers that smell like rotting meat in the bath-
room, to a room based entirely on 
a “who-dunnit” murder mystery in the library. Each room has intrigue for guests to solve and experience. 
For the celebration of the ex-
hibit’s opening, local clubs and or-ganizations brought various live, wicked plants for guests to see up close.
This is the ﬁ  rst plant-based ex-
hibit at the Florida Museum, said Darcie MacMahon, the museum’s director of exhibits and public pro-grams.
There are no live plants kept 
within the exhibit, but plants dis-cussed in the exhibit can be found throughout the museum. It’s dif-ﬁ  cult to keep live plants in an in-door exhibit, MacMahon said.
 “They’re all wicked, so you 
don’t want to have a bunch of poison ivy that people can touch,” MacMahon said. 
The exhibit is originally from 
the North Carolina Arboretum. The author of “Wicked Plants” will come to talk and sign books Saturday, but the event is open to museum members only. 
There will also be several 
events open to the public. As part of UF’s Creative B program, there will be a murder mystery night in August, when actors will perform and guests will try to ﬁ  gure out who used which plant as a murder weapon, said Tiffany Ireland, the museum educator. 
On Saturday, the museum also 
invited guests to play detective by visiting different stations to ﬁ  gure out which plant killed Sammy the squirrel, whose body can be found 
in the front of the museum.
“There’s a lot of murder going 
on at the museum,” she said. 
Admission for the exhibit is 
$7.50 for adults, $6.50 for Florida 
Residents, seniors and college stu-dents, $4.50 for children ages 3 to 17, and free to museum members and UF students with valid Gator 
1 Cards.  
@TWITTER
josmond@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Photos by  Jasmine Osmond / Alligator Staff 
ABOVE:
Mickey Maloiseau, 8, looks at a Victorian dining room set with his 
grandmother Susan Maloiseau at the Wicked Plants Exhibit at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday. The plates were printed with facts about different types of foods that can be poi-sonous depending on their consumption or preparation.
LEFT:
Seen through a hole in the Victorian house’s dining room wall at the Florida Museum of Natural History is the garden exhibit, hosting various poisonous plants. 
Museum opens new plant exhibit Editorial
ColumnTUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St. or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.
Take a minute before you #BernieOrBust
I am an avid Bernie Sanders supporter. 
This is a fact you could deduce from sim-ply spending five minutes on any social media platform of mine. When the Ver-mont senator came to UF in March, my 
friend and I were in line to see him speak be-fore his motorcade was even in town. With the Democratic nomination getting closer and closer each day, we’ve seen a rise in niche-voter movements like the #BernieOrBust ideology. My response to this movement is simple: If you’re feeling the Bern, it’s probably not in your best interest to bust.
For those of you who don’t already know, the #Ber-
nieOrBust movement is a collection of voters who will exclusively vote for Bernie Sanders in the general elec-tion. Meaning, if (read: when) Hillary Clinton wins the Democratic nomination, they will simply not vote in the general election.
This is a foolish mistake on their part. Sure, I fully 
recognize that Clinton is as authentic of a human being as Panda Express is authentic Chinese food. Sure, she’s faker than that girl you met at Midtown and more full of shit than your ex. She will say anything to get elected, has no regard for anything that does not advance her campaign and is a power-hungry establishment candi-date. However, Republicans win because liberal voter turnout is noticeably lower. Moreover, Democrats can-not afford to lose this election to Donald Trump. So, for the love of God, go out and vote for the lesser of two evils.
But for those of you who can’t swallow your pride 
and vote for a candidate you do not actively want to see elected, a sincere kudos. I honestly respect your com-mitment to your principles. But ask yourself, is it worth it? Also be warned, people are going to remind you of that stupid argument that when you don’t vote, you don’t have the right to complain.
It’s a fundamentally wrong argument. Note 
that your vote only really matters if you live in a swing state, which is cool for those of us in Florida and my family in Ohio, but pretty unfortunate for the remaining 48 states. Oth-erwise, you’re out of luck: The leadership of your state has already decided if you’re red or blue this November, and your vote makes lit-tle to no difference whatsoever in the grander 
election scheme.
Moreover, that analogy implies the only way for your 
voice to be considered is if you vote. The reality is, by virtue of being a citizen legally established in this country, you are allowed to complain even if you do not vote. If your moral inclinations make you hesitant to vote for two shitty candidates, you’re probably doing us all a favor by not voting. As political philosopher Jason Brennan wrote, the argument made by people who de-fend that erroneous claim is equivalent of saying, “I ran into someone this morning who complained about how poor he is. I told him, ‘If you’re not playing the lottery everyday, you forfeit your right to complain about being poor.’ The problem with poor people is that they don’t buy enough Powerball tickets.”
So I say this to my fellow Bernie Bros who are choos-
ing not to vote for Hillary in November, assuming she wins the nomination (it’s not really decided yet): You don’t have to. You’re absolutely right in choosing not to vote for her. People will tell you that you forfeit the right to complain when she or Don inevitably does something bad to this nation, and that’s total crap. However, also know this election has too much at stake, and a Trump presidency is worse and far more likely to happen if you choose to stay home.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy junior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.The DNC: evidence 
of oligarchy
We know this election cycle’s been hanging over your 
heads for what seems like forever, though probably still not as long as it’s been since you’ve returned your grandma’s voicemails. (Give her a call back, for heaven’s sake!) In so many ways, though, we’re 
just getting started. The general election is steadily approach-ing, and for weeks, all we’ve been hearing about is the need for party unity.
Forget the noise over the GOP’s forbidden romance with its 
nominee for a moment. We want to turn your attention to the other side of the aisle, where the Democrats’ call for unity is mired in its own silent travesty.
The Democratic National Committee is set to rally behind a 
nominee and orient the party at the Democratic National Con-
vention in July. Now, some of you might say to this, “Great. The 
DNC will finally establish a strong party platform based on the good work of the last seven years, say, the Affordable Care Act, and set itself apart from an oppositional Republican agenda.”
This line of thinking would, after all, match the rhetoric of 
DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, whose posted state-ments on Twitter read, “The ACA has helped millions of Ameri-cans, and we can’t let Republicans follow through with their attacks on it.” So, this is where the story should end, right? Un-
less, for instance, the DNC somehow relied entirely on private, 
corporate donations to cover the $80 million cost of the July Democratic convention: That would be crazy. 
Unfortunately, this is exactly the case. An act passed in 2014 
ended public funding of the conventions and, instead, dedicates the leftover cash to pediatric disease research. Clearly, invest-ment in child health is essential for progress, but the conse-quences of this act are anything but desirable.
The last time our convention fundraising was entirely private 
was 1972. A  $400,000 pledge to the then-Republican conven-tion from ITT Corporation was later linked to a favorable out-come for the company in a federal antitrust decision, as The New York Times editorial board wrote recently. So, how does this funding relate to false claims to unity on the Democratic side now in 2016?
Well, the committee set up to host the Democratic conven-
tion, as The Intercept reports, is composed of Republican donors and anti-Obamacare lobbyists. For example, the committee’s fi-
nance chair, Daniel Hilferty, serves on the board of lobbying 
groups that directly opposed the ACA. Hilferty also donated more than $25,000 to a committee designed to re-elect House Republicans and contributed equal amounts to the presidential campaigns of Chris Christie, Jeb Bush and Hillary Clinton.
As if this weren’t bad enough, the dubbed special adviser to 
the committee, David Cohen, is the executive vice president of Comcast, a staunch opponent to the current rules of net neutral-ity and a donor of more than $33,000 toward the re-election of 
GOP senators.
For all the rhetoric of the DNC, bolstering of Obama’s plat-
form and attacks on Republicans, top party officials have no 
qualms with accepting the money from same private interests that fuel the GOP.
And lobbyists would never invest this kind of money or step 
up to host these committees if they didn’t expect some kind of return on their investments or special access — such as the reserved seating at meetings of high-level, Democratic officials 
the DNC offers to top donors at the convention.
So, dear readers, all we ask is that for the remainder of this 
election, remember: Actions speak louder than words.
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgIt is impossible to listen to the candidates 
of this election cycle without hearing mention of the “establishment,” a sort of shady organization within politics that prevents the goodwill of the people from 
being heard or legislation from being passed. Anyone who isn’t part of the establishment, it can be assumed, is not longed for in the political world because they speak the truth on a certain issue the establishment does not want to let out.
It is by no doubt an effective tool by pop-
ulist candidates who are already outsiders within the respective party primaries they 
are running, but is this idea of the establish-
ment really that accurate? Sure there may be systems such as the super-delegates that are questionable, but, as I’ve written before, they are not that serious.
The system parties make in their prima-
ry processes are of course going to want to make it easier for candidates who are within the party’s rank and ﬁ  le. The presidential candidate leads the party’s policy until at least November 2016 and even further 
if they are elected, so why would 
they want a candidate that goes off-script or changes their policy away from the central platforms of the party? A perfect example of this is the Republican Party with Donald Trump: They are currently spending a massive amount of time burying hatchets because it has become clear Trump’s 
policy preferences are not as aligned with the 
party as many conservatives would hope for. This has even pushed some out of the party entirely.
So who is part of the establishment? Is it 
all of the members of Congress, most of which are re-elected in their districts by their con-stituents with great approval? Or is it other members of the party elite who take their party’s interests over that of the American people, which doesn’t make sense because 
parties want their members to win 
as much as possible?  And what about the “anti-establishment” candidates who win their party’s primary like Trump? Does his posi-tion as leader of the party translate into him being incorporated into 
the establishment even though he says he will change things in Washington?
Being an agent of change within a system 
still means you are part of it. If Bernie Sanders would’ve won the Democratic primary, then he, too, would have had to conform the estab-lishment of his party with some of his ideas, thus becoming part of this establishment.
While candidates can make the argument that the system is rigged against them, it is important to remember candidates too often confuse all lost games with rigged ones. Sand-ers and his supporters will argue that the su-perdelegate system is rigged to help Hillary 
Clinton, but the system has been in place for 
years, not just for the secretary’s election, and even without said delegates, people are still voting for her over Sanders. The will of the voters does not seem like a rigged system, but that does not ﬁ  t the narrative needed to per-petuate the loss of a certain election.
The calls against the establishment are just 
another trend in this election cycle of over-
simplifying complex political and economic 
issues into a sound bite that can be repeated. Sometimes, losing is not because the estab-lishment wanted you to lose: It might be that voters just didn’t agree with your ideas.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science se-
nior. His column appears on Tuesdays.TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgYou cannot blame the establishment for everything, even election losses
While Republican voters have de-cided to nominate a bigoted, xe-nophobic and self-centered human being, the Democrats are ready to continue moving forward on Presi-
dent Obama’s progressive legacy. With the prospect of a President Trump becoming more and more real, the Democratic party needs to unite more than ever, and fast. 
There is perhaps no one in this race who 
has more experience in uniting her party than former ﬁ  rst lady, U.S. senator from New York and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
According to CNN’s estimates, as of May 
5, Secretary Clinton has 93 percent of the del-egates needed to clinch the party’s nomination. Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont has run an effective cam-paign based on the issues, howev-er, it is now time to unite the party 
behind its eventual nominee, Hill-
ary Clinton.Despite the differences between Sen. Sanders and Secre-tary Clinton, both sides know that, just as in 2008, unity will be the only path forward. There is perhaps no better way to unite the Democrats than to simply gaze across the aisle. 
If nothing else, the prospects of a Trump 
presidency will drive the Democrats together. All in all, the differences between Sen. Sanders’ supporters and Sec-retary Clinton’s are miniscule compared to the stark differences between the Democrats and the Re-
publicans.
The battle in 2008 was even 
more contentious than the race be-
tween Secretary Hillary and Sen. Sanders has been this year. Despite their differences, when then-Sen. 
Clinton knew she had no path forward, she knew the only option was to drop out and en-dorse then-Sen. Obama in the spirit of unity.
In that same spirit of unity, she stood on the ﬂ  oor in Denver at the 2008 Democratic Na-tional Convention and called for the immedi-ate nomination of Sen. Obama.
Now, it is more clear than ever that Sen. 
Sanders and his supporters need to begin the 
challenging transition from Hillary’s competi-
tor to Hillary’s ally.
We must do everything in our power to 
make sure that Mr. Donald J. Trump never takes the oath for President of the U.S. Six-teen other Republican candidates failed to stop him. There is one person left who is capable of halting Donald Trump. 
Jacob Best is the president of Gators for Hill-
ary.
The time has come for the Democratic Party to unite behind Hillary ClintonColumn
Guest column
Person Face
Speaking OutTUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
“RANCHING AND 
WRANGLING” THEME
WILL RUN THROUGH 
JUNE 30.
By Ryan Serpico
Alligator Contributing Writer
In preparation for its new But-
terﬂ  y Rainforest theme, the Flor-
ida Museum of Natural History 
has wrangled a selection of but-
terﬂ  ies for visitors to see.
On Sunday, the museum, lo-cated at 3215 Hull Road, unveiled the Ranching and Wrangling theme, which will run through June 30. The theme is intended 
to educate visitors on the impor-
tance of studying butterﬂ  ies from different regions.
“We hope that it will affect 
them in a positive way, because 
they will get to receive an educa-
tion about the process that we use in the museum and the Butterﬂ  y Rainforest of bringing in butter-
ﬂ  ies from around the world,” said Elizabeth Brown, the museum’s 
marketing and public relations assistant.
During butterﬂ  y releases, 
workers, now called ranchers, give 10-minute lectures to visi-tors on why drawing in butterﬂ  ies from various areas is important to natural habitats.
“Buying butterﬂ  ies internation-
ally supports the industry, sup-ports butterﬂ  y farming, which 
in turn supports conservation of 
those natural habitats,” said Ryan Fessenden, the assistant manager of the Butterﬂ  y Rainforest.
The previous theme, “Mimic-
ry, the Art of Deception,” showed how butterﬂ  ies have learned to 
survive in their environments.
Butterﬂ  ies are released daily at 
2 p.m., with additional releases at 
3 p.m. and 4 p.m. on the week-
ends. Hours will be extended to 7 
p.m. every Friday in July as part of the museum’s Creative B Mov-ie Series.   Florida Museum Butterﬂ  y Rainforest unveils new theme
Butterfly Rainforest 
admission prices
• $13 for adults
• $11 for Florida residents and 
college students
• $11 for seniors
• $6 for children ages 3 to 17
• Free for museum members 
and UF students with valid Gator 1 CardsBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Amber Peelz was diagnosed with 
thyroid cancer in 2012. 
She spent a week in the Cancer 
Center at UF Health Shands Hospital 
and received three surgeries.
Peelz said caring staff helped her 
through the process, holding her hand as she was put under anesthe-sia before a surgery that would give her another chance at life. 
Becker’s Hospital Review recent-
ly named Shands one of the best 100 hospitals in the country. Only two other Florida hospitals made the list: Orlando’s Florida Hospital and Tampa General.
“Every time I stayed there it 
was amazing,” she said. “The staff there, the doctors knew what they were doing. Basically, they saved my life.” 
Patients are ﬂ  own to Shands from 
hospitals and counties throughout Florida, UF Health CEO Ed Jimenez said.
“University hospitals tend to do 
things that other hospitals can’t,” he said. 
Over the past ten years, U.S. News and Health recognized UF Health for seven adult specialties and seven pediatric specialties, and 
Forbes recognized it as one of 100 of 
America’s Best Employers. 
This year, for the ﬁ  rst time, Beck-
er’s Hospital Review also recognized Shands as one of the top 150 places to work.
The medical journal listed the 
hospital’s burn center, Magnet des-ignation for nursing excellence and 
neonatal intensive care unit as rea-
sons for the recent top-100 designa-tion.
The score is calculated based on what the hospitals offer compared to the actual outcome of a patient’s visit, said Dr. David Burchﬁ  eld, the 
chief of neonatology for UF Health.
Miami Children’s Hospital is the 
only other facility in Florida with 
a level-four neonatal crisis center, meaning it can provide a wide range of emergency procedures for all pe-diatric ages, weights and health con-ditions, including premature infants. 
Aside from its ability to pro-
vide services, UF Health received the award for its ability to provide enough staff and specialists to give patients a personal experience, Burchﬁ  eld said. 
Pediatrics has 16 nurses devoted 
entirely to the neonatal unit, he said. 
There are also surgeons, radiologists 
and students who come just to work in pediatrics.
Burchﬁ  eld said the award is also 
about how resources are spent and how new research or clinical trials are performed. 
He said it’s not any single thing 
that makes UF Health great, but all 
the pieces working together.
@TWITTER
josmond@alligator.org
 UF Health Shands named one of nation’s best hospitals10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
MEET THE EDITORS
Giuseppe Sabella  
is a 22-year-old jour-
nalism major with three classes in the way of his graduation 
in August. Giuseppe 
is currently the Alliga-tor’s editor-in-chief. After transferring to UF as a junior, he served the Alligator as a contributor, a crime reporter and later a metro editor, but co-
workers refer to him 
as “Dad” because he constantly draws on past mistakes to give advice. He has a deep, unnatural obsession with “It’s Always Sun-ny in Philadelphia” (hence the tattoo of 
Charlie Day on his 
arm). He likes mag-nets, ghouls and milk steak with jelly beans, but knees are a con-stant source of stress. Giuseppe’s passion for journalism has grown throughout his time at 
UF, and he is always 
happy to learn and teach with others. You can reach Giuseppe by email at gsabella@alli-gator.org or on Twitter using @Gsabella.
Emma Green is a 
19-year-old journal-
ism major with a focus 
on film and photogra-
phy currently serving as the photo editor 
for Summer A, a step 
up from her previous 
staff photographer 
position.  When she’s 
not binge-watching a 
comedy show on Net-
flix (“Chuck” is her 
current five-season project), she’s spend-
ing time in nature or 
exploring Gainesville.  
She drinks pumpkin 
spice lattes religiously, 
attempts to cook cre-
ative BuzzFeed recipes 
frequently and travels 
whenever she can.  If you have an interest-
ing story, she’s all 
ears; however, you’re 
more likely to notice 
her curly red-highlight-
ed hair first.  As a tes-
tament to Emma’s love 
of puns and of “Alice 
in Wonderland,” she’d like her readers 
to keep in mind, “No 
wise fish would go 
anywhere without a 
porpoise.”  She found 
hers at the Alligator. 
You can email Emma 
at egreen@alligator.
org.Aaron Albright  
is a 21-year-old jour-
nalism junior and the Alligator online man-aging editor this Sum-mer. He has a passion for technology and 
storytelling, which he 
uses to drive his work in growing and im-proving the Alligator’s online presence. He also enjoys photogra-phy, especially sports photography. When Aaron isn’t working 
at the Alligator, he’s 
either playing video games, writing short stories or coding web apps. If you want to know what the best to-do app is for your phone, he can proba-bly help you out. He’s 
literally tried dozens 
of them. You’ll make his day if you fol-low the Alligator on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. You totally should. It’s lit. If you have any ideas on how to make the 
website or social feeds 
better, email him at aalbright@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @tallbrighty.Mia Gettenberg  
is a 20-year-old crimi-
nology and law junior 
serving as both the 
print managing editor 
and the university edi-
tor this Summer. Pre-
viously, she worked as a copy desk chief and 
a copy editor, so one 
could say she enjoys 
working at the Alliga-
tor. Her other passions 
include eating sushi, 
sending pictures of her 
Bitmoji to her friends 
and barrelling through “House of Cards” on 
Netflix — please talk 
to her about it after 
she finishes season 
four. When she’s not 
lamenting the loss of 
all the Oxford commas 
she’s ever removed, 
she’s usually playing acoustic covers of Be-
yonce on the guitar 
or scouring her refrig-
erator for dark choco-
late. As someone who 
has always been on 
the shorter side, Mia 
wants to leave you 
with this quote from William Shakespeare: 
“And though she be 
but little, she is fierce.” 
Send Mia emails at 
mgettenberg@alliga -
tor.org.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   5-31-16-41-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, 
kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on 
bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all 
inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer $300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-24 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
3BR/2BA Haile Home $1200/m Rent in-cludes yard care, security system, W/D zoned Wiles, Kanapaha wooded view, walk to restaurants, pool.1st, last$350 SD. Pet fees 352-222-5990.    5-19-16-4-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge 
fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/
Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 
612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
Mobile Home for Sale by Owner in 
Gainesville; 2 bdrm; 2 bath w/all appliances; (352) 871-1126 and/or 352-246-1906    5-24-16-5-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
1994 Chevrolet Cavalier For SaleOnly 64,000 Miles, Selling For $2000Great Condition, Brand New BatteryOnly One Previous OwnerContact Ivy 850-867-1792    5-17-16-3-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished12 Autos 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor-
rections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
5-31-16-7-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation AndCommunicationRGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
5-19-15-11-14
YARD WORK
Approximately 1 mile from campus. $10/hrApproximately 3 hrs per visit. Flexible.Call 352-505-9022     5-19-4-14Looking for an office cleaner ; mon5p, tues5p, th12p, fri5p, sat 12p; weekly pay 8.50/hr; lots of driving involved so one must have a car, be able to pass a drug/back -
ground check too; if interested please con-tact me at 3522140868 [I'm also looking for someone to clean empty homes/Apts when people move out     5-24-5-14
 
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit 
gals/guys for part time driver position. 
Student or recent graduate preferred. 
+21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/
hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com
5-19-16-4-14
Retired person needs student P/T a few hrs per week (8-12) for yard work, house -
keeping, etc. Home close to UF. $9. per hr. Short resume, reply with time/hrs available. ghpolkgator@gmail.com    5-24-4-14
Permeant PT Financial Asst.15-18 hrs wkly: Detail oriented professional w/ bookkeeping, computer, phone & general office skills send your resume to Sarah@holytrinityGNV.org    5-19-16-4-14 
Permanent PT Financial Asst.15-18 hrs 
wkly: Detail oriented professional w/ book-
keeping, computer, phone & general office skills send your resume to Sarah@holytrinityGNV.org    
5-19-16-4-14Career Opportunities at 
On Top of the World in Ocala, FL
 CADD Technician – seeking an experienced, 
detail oriented CADD Technician with a mini-mum of 5 years of experience and a solid background in producing complete construc-tion documents. Experience in AutoCAD a must, possess working knowledge of build -
ing systems and construction methods, task oriented, have the ability to coordinate with clients and consultants and be proficient at multi-tasking in order to handle several proj-ects at once.
Marketing Systems Coordinator-To pro-
vide support and back up to the Marketing Systems Coordinator with all marketing relat-ed materials online and internally. Reporting directly to the Marketing Manager while maintaining communication with all team members of the Marketing Department and related entities.
Contact On Top of the World Human 
Resource Department to apply or for more information Hiring@OTOWFL.com <mailto:Hiring@OTOWFL.com> or 352-387-7422  OnTopoftheWorld.com    5-31-16-5-14
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-19-16-3-14
Experienced stunt base needed to 
work with 95lb high school cheer flyer.
Call 352-226-7040
5-26-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
1. In 2015, pitcher Jorge De La Rosa 
became the all-time leader in victories 
for the Colorado Rockies. Who had 
held the mark?
2. Two major-league players during 
the 1960s won the Rookie of the Year 
Awards in the same season they were on a pennant-winning team. Name 
either one.
3. Marcus Mariota, in 2014, became 
only the second college football play-er from the Pacific Northwest to win 
the Heisman Trophy. Who was the first?
4. In 2015, Detroit’s Brandon Jen-
nings had a game of 24 points and 21 assists. Who was the last Piston to have at least 20 points and 20 assists 
in a game?
5. How many NHL seasons did 
goaltender Martin Brodeur play for 
the New Jersey Devils?
6. In 2015, Martin Truex Jr. became 
the first NASCAR Cup driver since 1969 to have 14 top-10 finishes in the first 15 races of a season. Who did it in ‘69?
7. When Angelique Kerber won the 
Australian Open in 2016, she was the first German woman to win the sin-gles title since Steffi Graf. When was Graf’s last title?
Answers
1. Aaron Cook, with 72 wins (2002-
11).
2. Tom Tresh with the New York 
Yankees in 1962, and Jim Lefebvre with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 
1965.
3. Terry Baker of Oregon State in 
1962.
4. Isiah Thomas had a 20/20 game in 
1985.
5. Twenty-one seasons.
6. Richard Petty.7. It was 1994.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
May 16, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"14 Help Wanted TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
MATH TUTOR. Live tutoring online
at calcprof.com.  Former UF professor.
Over 15 years teaching experience.
Eve. & weekend hours avail.
$20-$40/hr. (352) 354-3706
5-31-16-8-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 Negotiated
agreements
6 Coagulate
10 Cry of disbelief
14 Wake-up call
alternative
15 Talk wildly
16 Dance that tells a
story
17 Arm bones18 Sign of things to
come
19 Wild goat with
recurved horns
20 Outgoing sort23 Spews24 Sets upright28 Danger color29 Body shop fig.31 Feel remorse over32 Chop (off)33 Extra-earnest
entreaty
36 Crate component
39 Multivolume ref.
work
40 Common
diagnosis for
distracted kids:Abbr.
41 KP duty need
46 Back in time47 Black __: spy
doings
48 Critic Reed
49 Punching tool52 Sales enticement54 National park on
the Maine coast
56 Clerical worker,
facetiously
60 April honoree?63 German
automaker
64 Occupy, as one’s
time
65 Bridges in
Hollywood
66 TMZ twosome
67 Creepy68 Vexes69 Gather in the
fields
70 Expression of
disdain
DOWN
1 Prince’s
lookalike, in aTwain novel
2 Assert without
proof3 Enjoyed a ride in
a birchbark
4 Police stings, e.g.
5 Metal refinery
6 Edit for size, as a
photo
7 __ duck
8 “Back to you,” in
CBspeak
9 Stiffen in fear
10 Moan and groan
11 Center of 
activity
12 Draft pick13 Price add-on21 Latin 101
infinitive
22 Sports analyst
Hershiser
25 Unlike Lady
Godiva
26 Poppycock, to a
Brit
27 Made tracks30 Car roofs with
removablepanels
31 Golf’s __ Cup33 Class-conscious
gp.?
34 Golf ball support35 Musical gift36 Box for practice37 Theater section38 Get from __:
make slowprogress
42 Carryall bag43 Outdoor44 Spring45 Reasons that
may be flimsy orlame
49 Cling50 Dog at a roast51 Kitchen storage
area53 Top grade55 Colorado skiing
mecca
57 Baby-faced58 Invention
beginning
59 Like overcooked
pasta
60 Justice Dept.
agency
61 On top of, in an
ode
62 Furniture wood
By Jeff Stillman
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/17/1605/17/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, May 17, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 21 Entertainment
05/17/16
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
xwordeditor@aol.com
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Roland Thornqvist and the UF women's tennis team advanced to the NCAA T ournament's Round of 16 over the weekend.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.Florida track program brings in two new recruits
On Monday, the UF track and ﬁ  eld program announced the additions of Virginia athletes Brandee' Johnson and Colin Schaefer to the 2016 recruiting class. 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Florida may have won its weekend series 
against Vanderbilt, but it lost its best hitter in 
the process.
First baseman Peter Alonso suffered a small 
fracture in his left hand Friday night after he 
was drilled by a Jordan Shefﬁ  eld mid-90s fast-
ball in the seventh inning.
Alonso trotted down to ﬁ  rst but was re-
placed by a pinch runner when he reached 
third base.
UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said he expects 
Alonso will be out of his cast and healthy for 
regional play, which starts June 3.
“I hate it for Pete, I hate it for our team,” 
O'Sullivan said. “But at the end of the day there’s nothing we can do at this point except try to get him back, get him healthy.”
Alonso has been the offensive heart and 
soul for the Gators (43-9), who are having the best season in program history.
The cleanup hitter leads Florida in nearly 
every offensive category, including  batting av-erage (.352), home runs (9) and RBIs (47).
UF pounded out 13 hits Sunday but was 
three-hit Saturday, after which shortstop Dal-ton Guthrie and the rest of Florida’s hitters felt 
the absence of Alonso’s bat.
“Obviously, Pete’s our best hitter. It’s 
tough,” Guthrie said. “But it just means people 
are gonna have to step up and ﬁ  ll in for him. This is where people ﬁ  ll some shoes and make a name for themselves.”
First up on that list is Jeremy Vasquez.Vasquez, who manned ﬁ  rst base in UF’s 
last two games, is no stranger to the corner H ome-
run leader injured in series win
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Bryan Shelton is no stranger to 
postseason success.
During his tenure as head coach 
of the Georgia Tech women’s ten-
nis team from 2000-2012, Shelton 
went 24-12 in NCAA Championship matches and led the Yellow Jackets to seven appearances in the Round of 16, including a national champion-ship in 2007.
The Huntsville, Alabama, native 
built a strong reputation over those 13 seasons at Georgia Tech, so it made sense that after former Florida men’s tennis head coach Andy Jack-son announced his resignation on May 25, 2012, UF wasted no time in making Shelton the next leader of its program.Florida Athletic Director Jeremy 
Foley appointed Shelton as head coach of the men’s tennis team two 
weeks after Jackson’s resignation. At 
the time of Shelton’s hire, the Gators hadn’t advanced past the Round of 16 in the NCAA Championship in over seven years.
It was Shelton’s job to change that.“I don’t tell coaches how many  Florida yet to experience success in NCAAs
MEN'S GOLF
 By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
On a day in which the weather 
was mild, the scoring was hot for the Florida men's golf team.
Three UF golfers made eagles 
during the ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA 
Regional Championship in Kohler, 
Wisconsin.
Florida made short work of 
Blackwolf Run’s Meadow Valleys Course in the tournament’s open-ing round.Navigating their way through 
the layout’s many meadows, 
creeks and ravines, the No. 
7-ranked Gators carded 15 bird-ies as a team, with all ﬁ  ve Florida players registering at least one.
With 36 holes left to play, the 
No. 3-seed Gators are tied at the top of the leaderboard with No. 12-seed Idaho at 5 under par. 
The rest of the competition isn’t 
far behind, though.
No. 2-seed Florida State is only 
a shot behind at 4 under par, and No. 8-seed Kent State is ﬁ  ve shots back at even par.
Although low numbers aren’t 
atypical for this Florida squad, the Gators’ source of scoring came from players not typically found at the top of the leaderboard. 
“We had all ﬁ  ve guys playing 
pretty nicely at one point,” UF coach J.C. Deacon said in a re-lease. 
“We let a few slip away down 
the stretch, but overall, it was a nice start.” Junior Ryan Orr had the best 
start of any Florida player in 
Round 1.
After a quick birdie on the par-3 
third, Orr got on a roll with a birdie 
on the par-4 ﬁ  fth followed by an eagle on the par-5 seventh — a 4-under, bogey-free front nine.
After a 2-over back nine, Orr 
posted a 2-under 70 to rest in a tie for ﬁ  fth place. 
Orr hasn’t had a top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nish 
since the Sea Best Invitational back in February. Alejandro Tosti had the Gators’ 
ﬁ  nal eagle of the day — a 3 on the 
par-5 11th. 
The sophomore was 4 under 
par with one hole to play until a 
disastrous double bogey put a damper on his round. 
Tosti netted a 2-under 70 and is 
also in a tie for ﬁ  fth.
Orr and Tosti are only a shot 
back of a four-way tie for ﬁ  rst at 
3 under. 
Jorge Garcia posted a 1-under 
SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 15SEE MEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 15 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15
EARL Y EXIT
Angela Flister (left) hugs Aniya Flanagan (right) after Florida was eliminated from the NCAA T ournament follow-
ing a 14-13 loss to Penn State on Sunday. The loss marked the Gators' second-straight season losing in the second round of the tournament. Read the story on pg. 16.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Shelton
Men’s golf tied for lead after Round 1 of NCAA RegionalsTUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
position — Sunday marked his 14th 
career start at ﬁ  rst base. 
While the sophomore went just 
1-for-6 with an RBI between Satur-day and Sunday, he’s still hitting 
.300.
O’Sullivan said he trusts Vasquez 
to produce, despite having signiﬁ  -
cantly less power than Alonso — he 
has zero homers this year.
“This is college baseball. We 
don’t have minor leagues where we 
can call people up,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s gonna have to step up. Some other guys are gonna have to step up. He’s certainly capable.”
Without Alonso, O’Sullivan will 
likely mix and match the lineup to help create runs. But he said he wants hitters to stay simple and fo-
cus on squaring balls up.“I don’t want guys to change 
their approach like, ‘Well, I hit 
fourth now so let’s try to hit home runs,’” O’Sullivan said. “Let’s try to have good at-bats.”
This isn’t the ﬁ  rst time Alonso 
has been shelved due to injury.
He missed Florida’s ﬁ  rst 30 
games last season after breaking his right foot three days before the sea-son opener.
Bad luck struck again a month af-
ter he returned in April when a ball hit his face and broke his nose in a batting-practice session.
O’Sullivan said Alonso will 
bounce back just as he as from his 
other injuries.
“He’s resilient,” he said. “I think 
the news of him being told that 
there’s a really good chance he’ll be back in regionals, that was positive.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 14O'Sullivan said Jeremy Vasquez will have to step up in Alonso's absence
games or championships they have to win, but men’s tennis needs to be in the hunt every single year,” Foley said after Shelton was hired in 2012. “Does that mean the Final Four ev-ery year? No. But when the season starts, you 
need to be one of the teams that has a chance 
to get there.”
Almost four years later, the Gators have 
had opportunities under Shelton, but UF still hasn't been able to make a deep run in the postseason.
In 2014, Florida lost in the Round of 16, falling to Ohio State 4-3 to end its season in heartbreaking fashion. 2013 and 2015 didn’t end much better for Shelton and the Gators with losses in the ﬁ  rst round to Denver and Pepperdine, respectively.
However, 2016 may ﬁ  nally be the year ev-
erything comes together for Shelton and his program.
After earning the No. 9 seed and the right 
to host the ﬁ  rst two rounds of their region, the Gators got off to a blistering start in the NCAA Championships last weekend, defeating both North Florida and South Florida in 4-0 sweeps.
UF has one of the most talented lineups Di-
vision I college tennis has to offer, with four players nationally ranked in the top 120 in singles play and two tandems ranked in the top 80 in doubles play.
With a roster that is capable of contend-
ing for a national championship for the ﬁ  rst time in decades, it’s hard for Shelton to not be pleased with his team’s prospects heading into Friday’s Round of 16 match against SMU in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
“I am really proud of our guys and really 
happy for all those that have been supporting us all year and our support staff,” Shelton said in a release. 
“(I’m) just really thankful for the opportu-
nity and to be able to move on.”
If Shelton is able to lead his players to a 
win over the Mustangs on Friday, he will have guided UF to its ﬁ  rst quarterﬁ  nal appearance in the NCAA Championship since 2005.
If the Gators lose, however, the 2016 sea-
son will go down as another successful reg-ular-season campaign that suffered shortcom-ings in the national tournament under Shelton.
However, regardless of Friday's outcome, 
there’s no denying Shelton has turned the 
Gators into contenders, which is exactly what 
Foley brought him in to do.
A story posted to FloridaGators.com on June 
8, 2012 contributed to this report.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org 
MEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 14The Gators play SMU in the NCAA Round of 16 on Friday
71 at the end of Day 1 — his best round in over a month — and is in a tie for 11th.
Sam Horsﬁ  eld — the Southeast-ern Conference Freshman of the Year and arguably the Gators’ best player — was the fourth and ﬁ  nal 
UF player in the top 20. 
Horsﬁ  eld ﬁ  nished the 17th hole 
with a double bogey on his way to 
an even-par 72 and is in a tie for 16th.
Gordon Neale limped into the 
clubhouse with four bogeys on the 
back nine to shoot a 3-over 75. 
Neale is well back in a tie for 
55th. 
The Gators will enter the sec-ond round more motivated than 
ever. 
Florida is searching for its ﬁ  rst 
regional title since 2011, and a vic-tory Wednesday would give the Gators their sixth title in program history.“I think the guys are pretty hun-
gry to get back out there,” Deacon said. “They want to get back out 
there and get after it.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org  
MEN'S GOLF,  from pg 14Florida is looking to capture its irst regional title since 2011
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Peter Alonso follows through on a swing during Florida's 2-1 loss to Mississippi State on April 
10 at McKethan Stadium. Alonso injured his left hand against Vanderbilt on Friday and is ex-pected to return for the NCAA Regionals on June 3.By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
What began as the greatest start in pro-
gram history ended in disappointing fash-
ion for the Florida lacrosse program.
After starting the season 18-1 — the lone 
loss coming against Maryland, a team that 
held the No. 1 spot all season long — the 
No. 2 Gators dropped their first game of the NCAA Tournament to Penn State in a shocking 14-13 overtime upset on Sunday. 
The loss marked the second year in a 
row that UF failed to make the tourna-ment’s quarterfinal round after having done so in 2013 and 2014. 
“I don’t think we played as hard as we 
could have in the first half and Penn State ran away with it a little bit,” senior attack-er Lauren Lea said in a release following Sunday’s loss. 
“It all comes down to the final seconds 
and we couldn’t come up with the win.”
Prior to Sunday, UF was one of the most 
feared teams in the country. 
Led by redshirt senior midfielder Ni-
cole Graziano, the Gators cruised to a 6-1 regular-season record against ranked oppo-nents, with two of the wins coming against then-No. 2 North Carolina and then-No. 2 Syracuse teams on the road. 
Florida also swept their conference 
schedule to claim the Big East regular-sea-son title.
Graziano, who was named one of five 
finalists for the Tewaaraton Award, and honor given to the nation’s top collegiate lacrosse player, led Florida in goals (44), points (61), free position goals (12) and draw controls (45). S
The Mendham, New Jersey, native 
scored five goals in the conference tourna-ment, helping UF secure its second-straight Big East Tournament title and fourth over-all conference tournament championship 
in the program’s history. Graziano was the first of three Gators 
to score her 100th career goal this season, 
doing so on April 24 in the regular-season finale against Connecticut. 
And even though this season was Gra-
ziano’s last at Florida, UF returns a group of five talented players for next year, in-cluding freshmen Sydney Pirreca (25 goals) and Lindsey Ronbeck (36 goals). 
However, the loss of Graziano will leave 
a significant hole in the draw circle, a place where UF struggled the most throughout 
the season. 
It will be the second-straight season 
UF’s leader in draw controls will not be 
with the team the following year. 
Shannon Gilroy, who secured 79 of Flor-
ida’s 304 draw controls in 2015, graduated after the season’s end. 
The Gators will lose four regular starters 
in Graziano, Lea, defender Sydney DuPre 
and goalie Mary-Sean Wilcox. 
Wilcox will likely be replaced by rising 
sophomore Haley Hicklen, who played a 
career-high 48:13 in Sunday’s loss. 
The senior class, which has lost just 14 
games at Florida, served as the emotional backbone for this year’s team. 
“They are such an amazing group of 
young women,” UF coach Amanda O’Leary 
said in a release. 
“What they have done with this team 
— I credit them with their leadership and 
their love for their teammates.”
According to LaxPower’s unofficial re-
cruiting list, UF currently has eight players committed to next year’s team.
Two of the prospective Gators — de-
fender Cara Trombetta and attacker/mid-
fielder Coeli Love — are among the top 
players in the country and have been com-mitted to Florida since 2014. 
The 2017 season will be the Gators’ 
eighth in program history — all under O’Leary — and third in the Big East. 
Florida has an all-time record of 105-38 
(.734) and has just two seasons with more than four losses. 
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.org16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 17, 2016
RETREATGAINESVILLE.COM | 352-372-6535 |1404 W UNIVERSITY AVE STE 10 LEASE FOR AS LOW AS $599/MO
®
come and see why life is better in a cottageWelcome  to the 
University of Florida
2-6 Bedroom Luxury Cottages
RESORT STYLE POOL | EXTENSIVE FITNESS FACILITY | PRIVATE SHUTTLE 
FREE PARKING  | INTERNET & CABLE | OUTDOOR GRILLING 
SELF-SERVE STARBUCKS COFFEE | TANNING  | HOT TUB & SAUNA 
COMPUTER LOUNGE | GROUP STUDY ROOMS   | CYBER CAFE 
 BEACH VOLLEYBALL | GAMING ROOMSSeason ends in disappointment for No. 2 Florida lacrosse team
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Nicole Graziano takes a shot against Penn State on Sunday at Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium. Graziano led Florida in goals scored this season and is one of four seniors whose college careers ended on Sunday. 
UF lost in overtime to Penn State