We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 108 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
Florida’s basketball team 
is relying on its defense
UF hosts Vanderbilt tonight at 7, pg. 13
Professor honored at White House
She won an award, pg. 3
Police: Woman hid crack in belly button
She was charged for possession of a controlled substance 
and possession of drug paraphernalia, pg. 5Up in the air
Check out our parkour photo story, pgs. 8-9
By Katelyn Newberg 
and Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
Mental health and student 
diversity are important issues 
to the second candidate for vice 
president of Student Affairs.
On Monday morning, Kent 
Porterﬁ  eld came to UF to show-
case his ideas for the position 
to about 70 UF staff and faculty 
members at Smathers Library. After his presentation with fac-ulty, he had a Q&A session with about 20 students in the Mat-
thews Suite on the fourth ﬂ  oor 
of the Reitz Union. Porterﬁ  eld is currently the vice president for student development at St. 
Louis University.
While speaking with UF fac-
ulty and staff, Porterﬁ  eld said 
he plans to mentor students. He said he wants to monitor 
students who seek help with 
academics and mental health concerns to ensure they stay on track to graduate.
“More satisﬁ  ed students —  
more engaged students — are better students,” he said. “Their voices are so powerful, and they will also point out and tell 
you where you’re not getting it 
right.”He said he wants to make UF 
more inclusive.
“I think we have to raise our 
game as a staff,” he said. “I don’t think you can talk about 
multicultural competence, for 
example, without examining the concepts of privilege, marginal-ization and oppression.”
He said he wants to address 
issues inhibiting students’ ac-cess to education, such as af-fordability and over-regulation of administrators.
Mary Kay Carodine, the assis-
tant vice president for Student Affairs, attended the presenta-
tion at Smathers Library. She 
said she thought Porterﬁ  eld had a strong presentation with good research. She said she liked his 
approach to diversity and inclu-
sivity.Second VP of 
Student Affairs candidate visits
 Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
WINDOW INTO A VIRTUAL WORLD
Arjun T amrakar, an 18-year-old UF finance freshman, looks through a pair of Oculus Rift virtual re-
ality goggles on Monday night in Pugh Hall during Engineers’ Week at E-Wiik, an event that invited students to play video games and eat food. 
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
Krewes and scrums are coming to 
Gainesville.
Frank2016 runs today until Friday and 
features breakout sessions called scrums and 
collaborative groups called krewes.
To attend frank2016, students had to ﬁ  rst apply and, if invited, were charged for a tick-et that cost a reduced price of about $150.
Ann Christiano, the creative director of 
frank2016, said the event invites commu-nicators to discuss social change, including improvements to public health and treat-ment of minorities.
Frank is an organization within UF’s Col-
lege of Journalism and Communications, and its annual event includes scholars, art-ists and company executives, said Christia-no.
Aaron Zeiler, a 20-year-old UF public re-
lations junior, said he spent two months in the District of Columbia working on a cam-paign for Tobacco Free Kids.
He will speak at frank2016 about his at-
tempt to inﬂ  uence tobacco policy, but Zeiler said he is most excited for the scrums.
“I think there’s so much we can do, and 
I love getting everyone’s opinion,” he said.After a topic is discussed during one of 
the event’s frank talks, people can then share their perspective during the scrums, he said.
Krewes, on the other hand, are groups of 
people assigned before frank to make sure every session includes a familiar face, Zeiler said.
“Kind of like camp, where krewes are 
your cabin but the whole cabin doesn’t go to craft time, and craft time is the scrums,” he said. Frank2016 encourages positive messages, open discussionCAMPUS
FRIENDS REMEMBER UF 
PROFESSOR, RUNNER.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
When 41-year-old Konstantin 
Matchev ﬁ  nished a half marathon Sunday, he hoped to see a famil-
iar face at the ﬁ  nish line.
His friend, UF physics profes-
sor Steven Detweiler, was always faster — even at the age of 68.
Detweiler was found dead the 
morning of Feb. 8 after his ﬁ  nal run, a two-and-a-half-mile jog 
from Gale Lemerand Drive to Ra-dio Road.
He suffered a cardiac arrest.As Matchev ﬁ  nished the Five 
Points of Life Half Marathon on Sunday, Detweiler was not there.
“We still can’t believe it,” he 
said.      
Detweiler ran nearly every Sat-
urday for six years.
By 6:30 a.m., he joined fel-
low members of the Florida Track Club to run a dozen miles through Gainesville.
Sometimes, Detweiler would 
show up three hours early, es-pecially if he was training for a Taking it in stride
SEE SEARCH,  PAGE 4 SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4
It runs today until Friday“I think we have to raise 
our game as a staf. I don’t 
think you can talk about 
multicultural competence, for 
example, without examining 
the concepts of privilege, 
marginalization and 
oppression.”
Kent Porterfield
VP for student development 
at St. Louis UniversitySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
La Casita Lunch Series
La Casita Lunch Series is to be 
held today in La Casita’s liv-
ing room. 
A new up-and-coming vol-unteer service organization on campus called the Global 
Developers will be presenting 
an interactive PowerPoint pre-sentation on what the group does and how it plans to es-tablish its legacy. 
Its fundamental goal is to raise 
money to invest in essential learning materials and to ul-timately help improve public 
education conditions in Latin 
America. The aim of the event is to showcase smaller organiza-tions on campus and provide 
students with a chance to in-
teract with fellow emerging Latinx leaders.
Florida Museum closed today 
and WednesdayThe Florida Museum of Natural History, including the Butterfly Rainforest ex-
hibit, will be closed today 
and Wednesday for preven-tive fumigation to protect its Lepidoptera collections and 
library resources. 
The museum will reopen Thursday. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for more information.
The Crossroads Project
The Crossroads Project, com-ing to First United Methodist 
Church today at 6 p.m., is a 
partnership between science and art that aims to blend performance art with one of the great conversations of our 
time: human civilization’s 
growing unsustainability and the quest for a truly meaning-ful response. 
Blending compelling and poet-
ic science, evocative imagery and powerful music, “Rising Tide” unfolds in a series of vi-gnettes that explore both natu-
ral and human systems and 
juxtapose two very different paradigms. The result is an inspiring and 
deeply personal contemplation 
of the paths before us. A Q-and-A session will follow the performance.The event is free and open 
to the public, but tickets are required. Tickets can be re-
served through eventbrite.com.
Wordier Than Thou
Wordier Than Thou will host storytelling open mics, a banned books burlesque 
show, spelling bees, literary 
pub crawls and more through-out the state. On Wednesday, we’re bring-ing the event to Maude’s Side 
Car Bar. 
We’ll kick the evening off with two featured readers: Michele Leavitt, poet and es-
sayist, and Peggy MacDonald, 
the executive director of the Matheson History Museum and author of “Marjorie Harris Carr: Defender of Florida’s 
Environment.” They’ll be fol-
lowed by 10-minute-long open mic slots. You can find more infor-
mation about the event 
here: facebook.com/events/165125923860995. You can also find more infor-mation about Wordier Than 
Thou here: facebook.com/
wordierthanthou.
Yes Means Yes
Yes Means Yes is a five-week student-run positive sexual-ity seminar that is partnered with UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education and GatorWell. 
The objective is to create a space and opportunity for UF students to think about 
and verbalize what a positive 
sexual experience means for them. Yes Means Yes is running each Thursday from March 9 
to April 6. 
The course is capped at 35 students, who will each read chapters from a book by the 
same name, “Yes Means Yes,” 
and then engage critically, thoughtfully and compassion-ately with a variety of topics during the seminars. 
Apply now: gatorwell.
ufsa.ufl.edu/programs/strive#Initiatives.
Trading Closets
Altrusa International’s an-nual fundraising sale of bargain-priced, high-quality women’s clothes and acces-
sories is Saturday from 8 a.m. 
until noon at the Gainesville Women’s Club, located at 2809 W. University Ave. The event is free and open to the public. 
Register for the Three Minute 
Thesis CompetitionThe UF graduate school 
will host the third annual 
Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition in March. The competition challenges doctoral students to present 
their dissertations to a non-
technical audience in three minutes or less. Preliminary heats will be held 
in March to determine final-
ists for the grand finale event March 29. Along with helping graduate students hone their communi-
cation and presentation skills, 
winners will be awarded cash prizes. This competition is open to in-
ternational students. 
For more information and to register, please visit gradu-ateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt/.
Got something going on?
 Want to see it in this space? Send an email with 
“What’s Happening” in the 
subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org.  To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 
5 p.m.  Please model your sub-missions after the above 
events, and keep them to 150 
words or fewer.  Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. 
 Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
CORRECTION
In a photo caption titled, “Shredding on Norman Field,” the bassist in the photo is Paul 
DeFillippis. The Alligator ini-
tially reported otherwise.
 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 108
HIGH  81° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
THIN MINT MIXER
Mike Dowie, right, 25, serves his cocktail, “Smokey Treat, ” paired 
with Thin Mint cookies on Monday night at The Jones’ “Cookies and Cocktails” fundraiser event. A variety of cocktails was available for attendees and featured different Girl Scout cookies. All proceeds collected from the entrance fee went toward the local Girl Scouts.
By Kristen Solorzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
President Obama invited a UF 
professor to the White House last 
weekend.
Michele Manuel, a UF assistant 
professor in the materials science 
and engineering department, heard 
ﬁ  rst lady Michelle Obama speak while in D.C. with the 104 other researchers recognized at the Presi-dential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers. The an-nual awards recognize science and engineering professionals who do research early in their careers.
Former President Bill Clinton es-
tablished the awards in 1996. The Department of Energy, Department of Defense, Environmental Pro-tection Agency, National Science Foundation and eight other agen-cies or departments honored young researchers.
Manuel was nominated by the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration on Thursday, the same day she said she learned she got the award. Those nominated 
automatically receive it.
Manuel said this was the sec-
ond time she has gone to the White 
House. The ﬁ  rst was to accept an award on behalf of NASA.
She said she worked at NASA’s 
Glenn Research Center for 10 years until 2008, when she came to UF. In her career, she has studied how 
different metals absorb shock when 
a car hits an object. She found light-weight metals, such as magnesium and aluminium, keep drivers safer than steel, which is commonly used to make cars.
“The aluminium structure, 
when combined with carbon ﬁ  ber and magnesium, results in mass re-duction of a vehicle,” she said.
Oscar Figueroa III, a UF doctoral 
student in the materials science and engineering department, has worked with Manuel since 2012.
“I feel incredibly privileged to 
have worked with Dr. Manuel,” the 
25-year-old said. “She has taught 
me what it takes to be a good re-searcher.”
He said he’s learned the values 
of being a good leader from her.
“I am overjoyed for my adviser 
and her prestigious award and couldn’t be more proud,” he said. “I am lucky to have the opportu-
nity to conduct lightware vehicle 
research with her.” Professor honored at White HouseCAMPUS
By Madeleine DeSena
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Innovation Academy is helping students 
learn to network and build apps this week.
IA started its ﬁ  rst iWeek on Monday with a 
kickoff event at the inﬁ  rmary. Jeff Citty, the di-
rector of IA, said he wanted to hold the week to connect students with Gainesville professionals to learn about different job opportunities and pos-
sible internships.
About 15 organizations attended the kickoff 
event, including Study Edge and the UF Libraries, 
where students talked with each other and poten-tial employers.
“(We want to help students ﬁ  nd opportunities) 
to make connections, network and ﬁ  nd permanent placement after graduation,” Citty said.
About 40 organizations will be involved 
throughout the week, including UF’s Entrepre-neurship and Innovation Center, the Gainesville Technology and Entrepreneurship Center at Santa Fe College, Study Edge and the Gainesville Area Chamber of Commerce.
Citty said he hopes to bring Gainesville’s tech-nology community to campus. An app-building workshop will be held Friday to teach students 
how to make their own apps.
“We want to connect resources to the students 
so they can make an impact wherever they are in-
terested,” Citty said.
Niamh Clancy, a UF biology sophomore, said 
she is excited to network during iWeek.
“I love having the chance to come together as 
an Innovation Academy cohort and do interactive, fun activities,” the 19-year-old said.
iWeek Events
 Wednesday at 5:30 p.m.
 “The Intrapreneur: Innovating from Within”
 Career Resource Center Library
 Thursday at 6 p.m.
 “Planning and Running a Small Business”
 Stuzin Hall, Room 102
 Friday at 6 p.m.
 “So You Want to Build an App”
 Marston Science LibraryIA holds ﬁ  rst Innovation Week
She won an awardmarathon, club member Mark Ou said.
“He was very dedicated,” he said.
Detweiler ran the Boston Marathon 
last year and would often tell stories of his past races.
Detweiler once recounted the time he 
passed a running legend during a 15-kilo-
meter race in Jacksonville, Florida.
As Detweiler approached Bill Rodgers, 
a man who won the Boston Marathon and 
the New York Marathon four times each, he struggled to find the right words.
“I’m older than you,” Detweiler said as 
he passed Rodgers.  
On Sunday, friends wore shirts 
adorned with Detweiler’s picture, taking 
him across the finish line once more.
“It was kind of like something missing, 
but he was there in spirit,” Ou said.
•   •   •
Matchev owes his love for running to 
Detweiler.
About four years ago, Matchev’s two 
sons began to run before school, and he 
wondered whether they could compete in races.
Matchev, a UF physics professor, asked 
for his colleague’s opinion.
“I mentioned it to Steve that my kids were becoming good runners, and he said, 
‘Well, why don’t you try them on one of 
these weekend 5Ks?’” Matchev said.
His eldest son, 12-year-old Anton, fin-
ished second in a 5K on Saturday.
“This is all thanks to Steve,” Matchev 
said.
•   •   •
In middle school, Anton learned about 
black holes.
Whenever Anton pestered his father 
with questions, his father sent him to De-
tweiler, who researched black holes and 
gravitational fields.
Days after his death, scientists an-
nounced the existence of gravitational 
waves after they recorded the sound of 
two black holes colliding a billion light years away.
Detweiler, who hoped to make the 
same discovery, learned about the finding 
before his death.
For his friends, it’s a small yet signifi-
cant consolation.
“I hope you are running loops around 
the black holes up in the heavens now, 
Steve,” Ou said. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
By Diana Illingworth
Alligator Contributing Writer
Leading up to this year’s Bee Col-
lege, UF experts shared the impor-
tance of protecting bees and the food they pollinate.
From March 4 to March 5, Flor-
ida’s beekeepers will meet experts and enthusiasts at UF’s Whitney Ma-rine Lab in St. Augustine, Florida.
William Kern, an associate pro-
fessor at UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, said about 
one-third of America’s food supply, 
including blueberries and potatoes, depends on insect pollinators.
Kern said he will educate attend-
ees at the Bee College about bees’ fragile ecosystem.
“Homeowners apply more pes-
ticides than all the farmers com-
bined,” Kern said. “I’m not sure that 
they’re aware of what it’s going to affect — beside the pest they’re try-
ing to control.”
Josh Campbell, a postdoctoral re-
search associate at UF’s Honey Bee 
Research and Extension Laboratory, said a lower bee population results in higher food prices.
The honey bee is one of 316 bee species in Florida, he said, and the rest are different species of native bees, 70 percent of which live in un-derground tunnels.
Honey-bee colonies are used for 
pollination because they are easy to track and transport, Campbell said, but individual native bees are more 
effective pollinators.
Plowing or tilling the ground 
might be the best solution to protect-
ing native bees’ tunnels, Campbell said.
He also recommended limiting 
pesticide use and not spraying the chemicals on windy days.
“Simple things you can do, even 
within your own front yard, can make a difference,” he said.Bee experts discuss pesticide useSTUDENTS SUBMITTED IDEAS TO MAKE 
LIBRARY WEST MORE SUSTAINABLE.
By Demi Wolfe
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can start voting online today for how to 
make Library West sustainable. 
About 13 students submitted short essays with 
ideas to increase sustainability through Gators Give 
Back, which used to be called the Pepsi Refresh Chal-
lenge. Voting ends in March, when the winner’s idea will be used at the library.
Last year, students submitted ideas to increase 
composting from garbage at the Reitz Union, he said.
The winning student or team will also get $500 
in PepsiCo Inc. products. Every Spring, Pepsi gives a $10,000 grant to support sustainability at UF, said Da-
vid Looney, the associate director of business services.April Hines, the Journalism and Mass Communica-
tions librarian, said she’s looking forward to helping 
pick a winner.
“Students get to have a say in something that is re-
ally going to make a larger impact and a difference,” Hines said. “I have students tell me all the time that Library West is their second home, so why not give back?”
Maegan Muir, an Office of Sustainability intern, 
said she thinks the contest will teach students about sustainability.
“I say education is the first step in most social is-
sues,” the 20-year-old said.
Although fewer students submitted ideas than in 
the past, Hines said she thinks there will be great ones.
“I was really impressed by the quality of the sub-
missions,” Hines said. “I think that even though we 
didn’t get hundreds of submissions, it was quality over 
quantity.”Voting open for sustainability contestCAMPUS
By Jaci Schreckengost
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF group is educating stu-
dents about queer and transgen-
der minority students this week.    
Queer People of Color United 
is working with other multi-cultural groups to hold its first Queer and Transgender People 
of Color Week, to inform others 
about queer students of color on campus. Michael Caputo, the president of the group, said he wanted to highlight the minor-
ity queer community, which he 
said is overlooked.
Caputo, a UF mathematics 
and statistics senior, said he 
wants to bring all of the queer 
and transgender communities together because they are dis-connected. He hopes the week will help students collaborate in 
the future.
Queer Asians and Pacific Is-
landers and Hispanic-Latinx 
Queers will also participate in 
the week, the 21-year-old said.
Events, which started Satur-
day and will continue through 
Thursday, include “Mi Familia,” which will discuss how Hispanic 
queer students are impacted by 
their families. Four more events will be hosted this week.
Dee Jolly, 21, a student am-bassador with UF’s LGBTQ+ Affairs, said she has worked on 
QTPOC Week since before Win-
ter Break.
“We want to provide queer 
and trans people of color soli-darity and a conversation,” she 
said.
A lot of these groups are 
overlooked, and the week will 
bring recognition to them, she 
said.
“It feels radical, and I’ve nev-
er felt this much support,” she 
said.Queer and transgender 
minority students unite
Courtesy to the Alligator
An accomplished runner who often dominated the competition in his age group, UF physics professor Steven Detweiler poses for a picture on New Year’s Day after the Frank Shorter Mile race in Gainesville. Detweiler was 68 when he died.
“He really understood all the work it 
takes and the ways we have to examine 
ourselves,” she said.
After the presentation, he met with stu-
dents in the Matthews Suite.
Porterfield said he encountered student 
activists while at St. Louis University. He 
said students held a protest on campus in 
response to an off-duty police officer shoot-ing a young black man near the university, which is located about 14 miles from Fer-
guson, Missouri.
“At that time, it wasn’t Black Lives Mat-
ter,” he said. “It was just community and 
students.”
He told students that while at St. Louis 
University, he offered guidance to the Stu-dent Body president. He said he would like to work with UF’s Student Government.
Maria Pitt, a UF graphic design senior, 
said she attended the student session to 
ask Porterfield questions. She said she 
liked that he has experience dealing with issues of race and diversity.
“He could bring that experience here,” 
the 21-year-old said.He focused on 
inclusivityEPILOGUE,  from pg 1He died while running on campusEvents
• T oday at 6 p.m.
 “Meet Me at the Intersection:        
 Race and LGBTQ” at Reitz 
Union Auditorium
• Wednesday at 7 p.m.
 “QAPI Presents: A Dialogue 
 on Community Acceptance”
 Reitz Union Room 2106
• Thursday at noon
 “Mi Familia” at the Institute of Hispanic-Latino Culture
• Thursday at 6 p.m. 
 Keynote Speech by Jennicet 
 Gutierrez at Pugh Hall OcoraBee College will be March 4-5
SEARCH,  from pg 1TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
 Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
THE FURRIEST MEMBER OF THE SPIRIT SQUADS
Charlie Newton, left, a UF materials science and engineering senior, holds UF animal science senior Ra-
chel Shaeffer’s 13-week-old Australian Shepherd and hound mix puppy, Dallas, while Jaclyn Horton, a 19-year-old UF accounting sophomore, pets her. Newton, 22, and Shaeffer, 22, were handing out ﬂ  iers on Turlington Plaza on Monday inviting passers-by to try out for the UF spirit squads. 
By Monica Humphries
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF ranked third among large 
colleges for the most Peace Corps 
volunteers.
The ranking, released Thurs-
day, found UF had 59 Peace Corps 
volunteers last September. This 
put UF behind the University of Washington and the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Volunteers in the Peace Corps do service work in other countries for 27 months.
Among the states, Florida 
ranked fourth, with a total of 299 volunteers. The University of South 
Florida ranked 16th among large 
colleges, and the University of Mi-ami ranked 25th among medium-sized colleges.
The Peace Corps has six areas 
participants can volunteer in, in-cluding education, youth in devel-opment, health, agriculture, envi-ronment and community economic development.
Bobbi Stienmetz, the Peace 
Corps recruiter at UF, said she was 
not surprised the university ranked 
third.
“The things I’ve seen from the 
student population — it didn’t sur-prise me,” she said.
UF has consistently been in the 
top ﬁ  ve schools and has sent stu-dents to volunteer with the Peace Corps for years, she said.
“UF is generally the top univer-
sity in the state,” Stienmetz said.
Jaclyn Biedronski, a UF inter-
national studies and psychology senior, said she will travel to Mo-zambique this August.
There, the 21-year-old will teach 
English and focus on girls’ empow-erment and education, she said.
Biedronski said she’s looking 
forward to immersing herself in the culture and interacting with locals.
“Everyone should learn more 
about the world in general,” she said.UF leads state in Peace 
Corps volunteers
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was arrested early 
Sunday morning after police said she hid 
crack in her belly button and a crack pipe in her crotch.
At about 8:30 a.m., police watched An-
drea Rodricka Mitchell, 29, enter a known drug house with two friends, according to a police report.
The group of women then left the house 
and started to dance in the middle of North-east 15th Street, according to the report.
Police stopped the women for a pedes-trian violation and asked Mitchell for con-sent to search her purse, according to the 
report.
She then dumped ev-
erything from her bag, including a small piece of crack cocaine, onto the ground, according to the report.
Mitchell told police 
she had more crack and a pipe hidden elsewhere, 
according to the report.
Police said they found a small crack pipe 
in Mitchell’s crotch and a small amount of crack in her belly button, according to the report.
In total, police found about a half gram 
of crack, according to the report.
“I just wanted to get high,” Mitchell 
said, according to the report.
Police arrested Mitchell on charges for 
possession of a controlled substance and possession of drug paraphernalia.
Authorities took her to the Alachua 
County Jail where she was released Mon-day morning on her own recognizance.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: woman hid crack in belly button
AUTHORITIES SAY HE 
CRASHED HIS TRUCK.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida Highway Patrol troopers arrested an 
Archer, Florida,  man early Sunday morning af-ter they said he lost control of his truck while drunk.
At about 2:30 a.m., Alan Kyle Wilson, 
24, ﬂ  ipped his pickup truck onto its left side 
while driving on State Road 24 near Southwest 154th Street, according to an FHP report. Troopers found Wil-
son seated on the road near his truck, according to the report. 
Troopers said Wilson’s 
breath smelled strongly of alcohol and that his eyes 
looked bloodshot and watery. Wilson told au-thorities he drank mixed whiskey drinks at a friend’s house and lost control of his truck, ac-cording to the report.
Troopers called Alachua County Fire Res-
cue to help Wilson, who was visibly in pain. When Emergency Medical Services responded, 
Wilson stumbled to an ambulance, according 
to the report. 
He was taken to the North Florida Regional 
Medical Center, where hospital staff recorded a blood-alcohol level of .249, more than three times the legal limit, according to the report. Once released, Wilson was arrested for DUI and DUI with property damage.
He was released from jail Monday morning 
on his own recognizance.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Archer 
man arrested for DUI
CAMPUS
FALAFEL AND BIRTHRIGHT
Ksenia Basaria, a 21-year-old UF English Language Institute student, receives falafel from a food truck on the 
Plaza of the Americas on Monday. The event, which was put on by T aglit-Birthright Israel, gave students free food if they took a picture with the group and published it on social media.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffWilson
Mitchell
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Not so ‘free’ speech after all, BDS movement
There is a growing trend in Israel and the 
West at large to criminalize and enact op-position against protest activity, such as the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement targeted at the practices of the 
Israeli government. Prejudices regarding BDS aside, we must focus on the issue at hand: the chipping away of free speech for the purposes of “security” or allegiance to the Israeli government.
For a brief contextualization, the West Bank is 
considered Israeli-occupied Palestinian territory, according to the Human Rights Watch and the United Na-tions. As Israel expands settlements and opens factories in the West Bank, Palestinians seek job opportunities in these 
factories. The BDS movement vows to boycott such goods 
made in Israeli settlements, seeing the occupation as illegiti-mate and harmful to Palestinian sovereignty. Many view the movement as problematic; many support it. To illustrate the issue at hand, in 2011, Israel passed a law that deems any public call for a boycott against Israel or its West Bank settle-ments a punishable offense. Despite its strong opposition of boycotts against Israel, the Anti-Defamation League — a U.S.-based Jewish group — claimed the law impinged on “basic 
democratic rights of Israelis to freedom of speech and free-
dom of expression.”
This aggressive legislative trend against BDS sympathiz-
ers is apparent in the Western hemisphere. Just last October, the Court of Cassation — France’s highest appeals court — passed a verdict on BDS protesters from 2009 and 2010 who had demonstrated at a local grocery store, ﬁ  rmly calling for a boycott of Israeli-made goods. The court found the protesters guilty of discriminatory hate speech and charged the group 
12,000 euros.
In my view, this is a rather extraordinary charge for the 
French government, which hosted the post-Charlie Hebdo 
free-speech marches for protesters without incident. Trends in the U.K. and U.S. are more legislative. On Feb. 14, The Independent ran a story on the British government’s plans to ban publicly-funded institutions from supporting organiza-tions that boycott “unethical” companies, indirectly targeting BDS’s boycotts of “unethical” Israeli companies.
Likewise, in the U.S., should President Obama 
sign off on certain provisions within the new Cus-toms Bill, the distinction between Israeli business-es and Israeli-occupied (West Bank) businesses 
would be absolved. As Eyal Press of The New 
York Times argues, “the industrial zones dotting the occupied territories would have the same sta-tus as the high-tech industry in Tel Aviv.”
Thus, the labor abuses and discrimination 
against Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied work-
place, documented by the H.R.W., would be formally unrec-ognized by U.S. business practices. To be clear, this piece is not a blind endorsement of BDS, nor is it anti-Israel. As jour-
nalist Glenn Greenwald argues, “The issue here, obviously, is 
not whether BDS is a persuasive policy but whether people should be criminalized for advocating it.”
We openly advocate sanctions against countries such as 
Russia and Iran. We all remember last year when 47 U.S. senators signed a letter to Iran that formally denounced the nuclear deal, a part of which offers a lifting of sanctions, should Iran comply.
So is the issue that the BDS protesters call for sanctions 
against another county? No. Does it have anything to do with rising Islamophobia and the West’s decades-long political contingency with the Israeli government? Yes, probably.
Ultimately, free speech is not measured by marches or 
pledges of commitment but by the extent to which we con-sistently apply it. The vitality of the American dream resides in our willingness to uphold these liberal, progressive values, not because doing so is easy — to channel some good, old John F. Kennedy — but because it is hard.
Bringing it back to Gainesville, though we may disagree 
with those particularly vocal Christian groups and pro-lifers who make the occasional scene on Turlington Plaza, these in-dividuals have the right to speak without facing unjust crimi-nal charges. And this right should apply to all, including those who speak out against policies of the Israeli government.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.America has failed 
Trump supporters
What a time to be alive, indeed: Although most week-ends are marked by a pronounced lack of news-worthy stories, last Saturday, both the Republican South Carolina primary and the Democratic Ne-vada primary produced more than a few headlines 
worthy of the nation’s attention. On the Democratic side of the aisle, Hillary Clinton scored her ﬁ  rst decisive primary vic-tory over Bernie Sanders in Nevada, reminding those “feeling the Bern” that no matter how hot the ﬁ  re, an individualistic ﬂ  ame can still be put out by the overwhelming coldness of an icy political titan. Meanwhile in South Carolina, Saturday saw trust fund baby and rotting racist orange peel Donald Trump handily win the primary with 32.5 percent of the vote.
While many of us were neglecting studying for our mid-
terms by pre-gaming for nights of reckless abandon, a politi-cal dynasty was quietly unraveling. Former Gov. Jeb Bush, R-Fla., dropped out of the race Saturday following a dismal showing in South Carolina, having garnered only 7.8 percent of the vote.
We haven’t really spoken about Jebby in this part of the 
paper, as we’ve been content to let his campaign mishaps and desperate need for approval take up space in our weekly installments of Darts & Laurels. But now that Jeb’s ambitions 
of continuing the Bush family legacy in the White House have 
been squashed and left to wither, we’ve found ourselves sympathizing with the man, unlikely as that prospect is.
Don’t get us wrong, we’re not particularly big fans of Jeb 
or the Bush family; although the insanity of the last decade has made it difﬁ  cult to remember, the George W. Bush presi-dency was as disastrous as many remember it being. That presidency helped set the stage for many of the problems we face today, including the existential and abhorrent threat 
posed by ISIS. 
But however awful the political machinations of the Bush 
family may be, they pale in comparison to the evil (yes, evil) 
and empty rhetoric of the reality TV star a considerable por-tion of our country has deemed electable. 
American politics has always been an insidious game, 
but at least — and we can’t believe we ﬁ  nd ourselves say-ing this — it carried a veneer of respectability and dignity. Every prominent Bush — whether it’s been George Herbert 
Walker, Dubya or Jeb — understood this; The Donald does 
not. Empathy and pluralism matter not to The Donald, for he is a winner and the rest of us are losers. Concerns such as constructive diplomatic relations or building our nation’s infrastructure are of little interest to The Donald, for winners ALWAYS ﬁ  nd a way to make it work, regardless of whether they’ve been deprived of access to knowledge, comfortable housing, nutritious diets or fulﬁ  lling work.
We doubt Donald Trump or his constituency possess 
the mental fortitude to have read “Mein Kampf” or “Atlas Shrugged,” but we have, and quite frankly, we’re scared. We’re scared many disgruntled Americans believe their eco-nomic salvation lies with a man who publicly ignores the objective realities concerning the global exchange of goods and services. We’re frightened many Americans would side with a man who is so incapable of kindness he would take the Pope to task for criticizing his proposal to “build walls… not build bridges.” We’re terriﬁ  ed that so many Americans 
lack a basic grasp of history or world affairs that they would 
fail to see the unnerving parallels around Trump’s rise. 
From both an intellectual and economic perspective, 
America failed these individuals and, should Trump reach our highest ofﬁ  ce, it will only fail them again.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
With the unexpected 
death of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, marking only the third time in recent 
memory an active justice has died, a ﬁ  restorm of controversy has erupted surrounding who his possible successor may be, as well as the fate of current cases before the court. Perhaps the most notable of these cases is the current afﬁ  rmative action case Fisher v. University of Texas II, which concerns the University 
of Texas’ afﬁ  rmative action program.
The preceding afﬁ  rmative action case, 
Fisher v. University of Texas, was an ap-
peal brought by Abigail Fisher in 2013 after she lost her challenge to race-based afﬁ  rma-tive action in the Fifth Circuit. The court remanded her case back to the Fifth Circuit on the grounds that the Fifth Circuit had failed to properly exercise strict scrutiny 
in its analysis of the University of Texas’ 
policy, effectively delaying any new prece-dent in afﬁ  rmative action law. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote the lone dissenting opinion, and Justice Elena Kagan recused herself, as she was Solicitor General when the Department of Justice ﬁ  led an amicus brief regarding the case during its hearing in the Fifth Circuit. Fisher is now appealing 
the Fifth Court’s second decision, claiming 
that afﬁ  rmative action does not pass strict scrutiny and is thus unconstitutional.
Fisher II, as the case is known, has al-
ready received signiﬁ  cant media attention, even before a decision has been made. Asian American advocacy groups have al-ready used the case as a platform to debate the impact of afﬁ  rmative action on Asian 
American applicants. In addition, Scalia 
himself drew widespread criticism for one of his remarks during oral arguments in which he questioned whether minority stu-dents admitted to elite universities under afﬁ  rmative action policies would be able to perform up to par with their peers, echo-ing a similar statement Justice Clarence Thomas made in his opinion in the 2003 
landmark afﬁ  rmative action case Grutter v. 
Bollinger.
In addition to being hotly divisive, this 
case also has signiﬁ  cant legal implications. Initially, since Kagan has recused herself again, the loss of one voting liberal justice meant that there were three typically lib-eral justices and ﬁ  ve conservative justices deciding the case. A defection by the typical “swing” Justice Anthony Kennedy would tie the case 4-4, meaning that the lower court’s ruling would be upheld, 
but the case would not set a 
precedent for lower courts. This would keep the constitutional question of afﬁ  rmative action’s legality a proverbial open book; there would not be a signiﬁ  cant 
national impact.
With the death of Scalia, however, this 
calculus has changed. With the subtraction 
of both one conservative justice and one lib-
eral justice, as well as assuming Kennedy to be the “swing” vote, the ruling will almost certainly become a 4-3 decision one way or the other, with Kennedy casting the deter-mining vote. A vote with the liberal bloc would uphold the University of Texas’ af-ﬁ  rmative action plan, which admits the top 10 percent in terms of GPA from every high 
school and then determines the remaining 
spots using holistic review as established in Grutter. A vote with the conservative bloc would strike down the University of Tex-as’ combination of the two, accepting the premise that the use of race in college ad-missions is a violation of the Equal Protec-tion Clause of the 14th Amendment. Such a ruling would be a disastrous blow to propo-
nents of race-based afﬁ  rmative action.
As the Supreme Court stands now, a 
constitutional ruling one way or the other 
is inevitable barring another remanding. During oral argument, Kennedy did express skepticism about the fact-ﬁ  nding that had been done before bringing the case to the court once more, even going as far as to question whether an additional remand 
was necessary to resolve the case. How-
ever, given the years that have passed since Fisher I, a second remand from the court is unlikely; it would only be a delaying tactic to avoid a ﬁ  nal ruling.
Scalia’s death has further raised the 
stakes for afﬁ  rmative action, and once again, Justice Kennedy — the deciding vote in many landmark cases including last 
year’s Obergefell v. Hodges, which legal-
ized gay marriage nationwide — is expect-ed to have the last say in the matter. As for what ﬁ  nally happens, the nation now may only hold its breath and wait.
A version of this column by Elton Loss-
ner originally ran in the Harvard Political Review.
How Scalia’s death aﬀ  ects the stateUWire
While barbarity and 
violence are hard for the human race to 
shake (after all, why 
stop what you’re 
good at?), there are some out-dated habits we can nip in the 
bud in the spirit of progress. 
True, the long and arduous ﬁ  ght to abandon nose-picking is one that requires society’s undivided attention, but I’m referring to the reafﬁ  rmation of the 
U.S. Constitution’s most important tenant: 
the separation of church and state. It’s time we ignore faith when taking part in the se-lection of the leader of the free world.
Amid the hustle and bustle of the 2016 
Presidential elections, a hot topic for vot-ers, pundits and super PACs have been forced to consider the religiosity of the can-didates they stand behind. Between Sen. 
Ted Cruz, R-Texas, pandering to evange-
lists and the scrutiny of Hillary Clinton’s devotion to Jesus, it is clear that faith plays an important role in how the American 
public elects their leaders. A very particu-
lar kind of faith.
But why?Why is being faithful, particularly Chris-
tian, a de jure prerequisite for being presi-
dent of the United States?
According to a Gallup Poll done in July 
of 2015, 40 percent of Americans would 
not vote for an atheist and 38 percent 
would not consider voting for a Muslim 
president. Though the general consensus is that Americans have become more accept-ing over time, the need to see a god-fearing president elected still reigns supreme. It 
doesn’t hurt to fear the right god either. 
The prospect of a polytheist president punctuating addresses to the nation with “May the gods bless America” is as humor-
ous as it is sacrilegious for a sizeable ma-
jority of Americans.
Scripture’s irrevocable role in American 
politics has led to a culture of discrimina-tion against those who don’t believe in 
the right god or don’t believe at all, lead-
ing a number of voters to write off leaders with great potential and perspective. In the worst case, it has seeped into the mechan-
ics of policy in deciding what students of public schools can and cannot 
learn, as well as the rights of Americans in deciding who is al-
lowed to love whom.  
As a president should never 
be discounted for being a Chris-
tian, so should he or she never 
be obliged to be one in order to 
hold ofﬁ  ce. The unfettered inﬂ  u-ence of Christianity in politics is 
a complete disregard of the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution, a consti-
tution that many of these same religiously 
devout people hold next to God in sanctity. When the right to bear arms or a state’s right to deny rights are at hand, the Con-
stitution might as well BE the Bible. But 
the First Amendment seems to have been tossed aside and ignored altogether like the Apocrypha.  
The Founding Fathers of our nation in-
tended a government that held no religion higher than another. Yet for all the venera-tion they receive from Americans, religious or not, their vision for progressiveness is 
vastly ignored and understood only as one 
of those superﬂ  uous wisdoms the Constitu-tion is full of. 
Some of these men were religious Chris-
tians themselves, yet they nonetheless un-
derstood the importance of keeping faith 
from the workings of government. They understood the complexity of religion could be perverted and used as a political 
tool by rousing factions, alienating minori-
ties and legislating unfair laws. We seem to have forgotten that.
Beyond the First Amendment, the 
Founding Fathers echoed the sentiment of 
no religious afﬁ  liation in Article 11 of the 
Treaty of Tripoli, saying, “the Government of the United States of America is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian reli-
gion." If we as a nation could hold these 
truths to be self-evident, we would be bet-ter off.
People who demand Muslims denounce 
those who commit murder and war in the 
name of Islam should apply their enthu-
siasm to religious Americans: Have them denounce the meshing of church and state.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.Faith out, separate church and stateColumn
Elton Lossner
UWire
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
Photos by Andres Leiva
Alligator Staff Photographer
ABOVE:
Some techniques in parkour, 
a word derived from the 
French le parcours, are 
borrowed from climbing disciplines. The explosive movement seen here is called 
a “dyno, ” and Cash uses it to 
propel himself vertically to a higher ledge.
RIGHT:
Klein wears Ollo Sapien shoes, a pair of Kickstarter-financed shoes that are 
specially designed for use in 
parkour.
UP IN THE AIR
ABOVE:
Gibson Cash, throws a diving cat pass — a type of vault that involves swinging over 
one’s arms — over a bench in 
Turlington Hall on Monday.
LEFT:
After gaining confidence through practice, heights 
aren’t so nerve-wracking, 
Cash said. Here, he kicks off a wall back to safety using a technique called a “tic-tac. ”LEFT:
Derek Klein, a 29-year-old UF astronomy and physics junior, rises from a one-legged pistol squat. As an 11-year veteran of parkour, 
Klein said the discipline emphasizes efﬁ  cient movements.
BELOW:
Though they’ve been friends for about four years, Gibson 
Cash, a 25-year-old Santa Fe College respiratory care student, 
and Klein’s parkour techniques differ. Cash prefers to land cat 
hangs with staggered feet, while Klein sticks his feet together.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
For rent - 8/15/2016 to 8/14/2017. Private owner has 4 bedroom/4 private bathrooms, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer on bus route 1 mile from UF. ONE YEAR LEASE. $375/mo/room Call 352-586-6468    3-9-16-10-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
MR CHEAP ROOMClose to campus $180/mo.
Call Rob 375-8606                 2-25-5-4
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-1298 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199996 Cadillac Deville $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago 
Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Janitorial cleaner needed to service ar-
eas in morriston,williston,jonesville,and Gainesville... needs reliable transportation...weekly pay....call 352-214-0868 if interested   2-23-16-5-14
Servers Needed...Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St      2-24-16-5-14
Server needed for busy Lisa's Corner Cafe. Some mornings & afternoons, 4-5 shifts/week. No nights. Exp pref. Own transporation. Energetic & depend-able. Train now. Server rate + tips ~$13-17/hr. Apply 1-4pm 125 NW 23rd Ave Ste #9.    2-25-16-5-14
Seeking responsible and engaging individual to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-9-16-10-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 18 Personals 24 Pets 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florid baseball hosts Eastern 
Michigan tonight at 7.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's women's basketball drops out of AP Poll
The Florida women's basketball team dropped out of The Associated Press 
Poll on Monday. The Gators were ranked No. 22 before defeating Vanderbilt at home and losing to Georgia on the road last week.
GYMNASTICS
FLORIDA PLAYS 
VANDERBILT TONIGHT.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The 20-point scoring barrage began  
abruptly.
During a seven-minute stretch to end 
the ﬁ  rst half of Saturday’s overtime loss to 
South Carolina, Florida rallied from 30-13 to take a 33-30 lead over the Gamecocks.
UF coach Mike White gave a simple ex-
planation for the game’s shift in momen-tum.
“Just getting stops, really,” White said 
on Monday. “It gives us a chance.”
With four games left in the season and 
with a ﬁ  fth-place spot in the Southeastern Conference, Florida still has a chance.
A chance to expect more than an early 
exit in the Southeastern Conference Tourna-
ment, and a chance to qualify for the NCAA 
Tournament in early March.
And the main reason has been because 
of Florida’s defense.
While playing the country’s No. 
13-ranked strength of schedule, UF’s de-fense has allowed just 66.2 points per game, 
good for second in the SEC and a respect-
able 48th in the nation.
At the center of Florida’s defense has 
been redshirt sophomore John Egbunu, the 
Gators’ 6-foot-11 rim protector who, more often than not, tends to dictate how well 
Florida plays.  
When Egbunu scores in double digits, 
the Gators are 14-4. When he fouls out, 
they’re 0-5.
“Foul trouble has been a big key,” White 
said of Egbunu. 
“I think it’s just the process of under-
standing how teams are defending him dif-ferently. And I think with all young, devel-oping bigs, conﬁ  dence is a factor. I think 
you can see it with John’s body language as 
much as anyone on our team.”
Florida (17-10, 8-6 SEC) will look for an-
other strong defensive outing when it hosts Defense carrying UF basketball near season's end
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
On Friday, the No. 2 Florida gymnas-
tics team was set up for failure.
The Gators were facing a top-20 oppo-
nent in a Southeastern Conference match-
up in front of a hostile away crowd.
By the meet’s close, 12 Missouri gym-
nasts matched or earned new career highs. 
The Tigers also accumulated their high-
est aggregate score since 2010.
However, in spite of it all, the Gators 
clinched the victory with ease, their sea-son-best road score of 197.750 besting 
Missouri’s 196.650 en route to their sixth 
victory of the season.
Trumping an opponent who notched 
the eighth-highest score in their program’s 
history is one thing.
To do it in dominating fashion — post-
ing the nation’s then fifth-highest point 
tally of the 2016 season — is entirely dif-ferent.
"I think the team did a great job tak-
ing an opportunity, (posting) a great road score in an environment of an SEC school that’s ranked in the top-20," coach Jenny Rowland said. 
"To be able to do that, I think, was ab-
solutely fabulous."
Contributions poured in from the entire 
lineup, with Gator gymnasts posting nine total season or collegiate-best scores.
Seniors Bridgette Caquatto and Bridget 
Sloan led the charge. 
Caquatto equaled her personal-best 
9.950 on the way to her first uneven bars title of the year, while the Sloan notched 
a meet-high 9.975 on the floor, clinching Gators ﬁ  ght 
past adversity 
in road win
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
The Pirreca sisters took over Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina, on Saturday.
Freshman Sydney and sophomore Shayna 
combined for seven goals and an assist in a 
thrilling 16-15 upset for the Gators over then-No. 2 UNC.
Florida (3-0), which entered the game at 
No. 10 in the country, moved up to No. 4 in this week’s Inside Lacrosse poll.
Coming off a game in which she almost 
single handedly brought back the Gators from a late-game three-goal deﬁ  cit to a 12-11 win over Michigan, Shayna continued her dominance with a pair of goals in her ﬁ  rst start to extend her season total to eight, the second-most of any Florida player. 
UF coach Amanda O’Leary said the start 
began because of her success both in the Michigan game and in the practices leading up to the UNC game.
“(Shayna) continues to give us produc-
tion,” O’Leary said. 
“Whether that’s with goals, assists… 
She’s coming into her own.”Sydney, the No. 1-ranked recruit in the 
class of 2015, had herself a breakout game against the Tar Heels. In just her third col-legiate game, the Mount Sinai, New York, native exploded for a career-high ﬁ  ve goals, with three coming in the ﬁ  rst half of the game.
She is the ﬁ  rst freshman Gator to record 
a single-half hat trick since junior Mollie Ste-vens did so as a freshman against Denver. Pirreca sisters stepping up for Florida lacrosse team
John Egbunu shoots a free throw during Florida's 61-55 loss to Alabama on Feb. 13 in the O'Connell Center.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
They scored seven goals vs. UNCSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE GYM,  PAGE 14
SEE LAX,  PAGE 14the 82nd event championship of 
her collegiate career.
Similarly, the sophomore tan-
dem of Alex McMurtry and Ken-nedy Baker made waves. 
McMurtry bagged her second 
consecutive balance beam title, equalling her collegiate-high score of 9.950, while Kennedy Baker became the second Gator 
in as many weeks to clinch her 
first all-around title. 
With McMurtry's recent suc-
cess, the sophomore has started training for her first floor routine 
of the season, which Rowland 
said she may perform against LSU on Friday. 
"I'm so excited, but I can't say 
I'm more excited than Alex is," Rowland said. 
"We'll see how training goes 
today... We'll see if the plan is a go for Friday." 
All of Florida’s statistics 
against Missouri proved what the team already knew — they are supremely talented and more than equipped to take their fourth consecutive National Champion-ship come April 15.
"These girls have just done a 
great job week-in and week-out of (preparing for) every meet thus far," Rowland said.
But what’s scarier is that 
they’ve yet to hit their stride.
"(They) have continually im-
proved upon the little things. There’s still room for improve-
ment, as always, but I think it 
was really nice to see them actu-ally settle down, settle into their roles, knowing what (and) where they’re going to compete.
"Going into a new environ-
ment is always a little difficult, but I think this team is always up for the challenge. 
"They rise to the occasion, 
and they’ll go out and just give it all their best."
@aljb95
alopez@alligator.org
Offensive production aside, Sydney Pir-
reca was also active on the defensive end 
against UNC, helping out a defense that used every ounce of energy it had to squeak out the one-goal victory. 
“She really, truly played a complete 
game,” O’Leary said.
Sydney isn’t the only Florida newcomer 
who came into her own against the Tar Heels.
Freshman Lindsey Ronbeck, the No. 2 
nationally ranked recruit in last year’s class, 
notched her first two collegiate scores dur-
ing a 4-0 second half run that helped give the Gators some wiggle room heading down the stretch. 
O’Leary credits the bump in Ronbeck’s 
production to a switch in her position on the field. The seventh-year Florida coach moved Ronbeck from a more defensive midfielder position to an area where she can utilize her natural skills as an attacker more often.
The Manhasset, New York, native en-
tered Gainesville as an attacker, but trained to be a more defensive player in the UF lineup.
The two freshman phenoms — Sydney 
Pirreca and Ronbeck — have played just three games apiece in a Gator uniform, but both have found their respective niches on the team.
That’s a fact that O’Leary has responded 
to with obvious enthusiasm and enjoyment.
“It’s fun,” O’Leary said. “Seeing those 
two play as well as they did.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgVanderbilt (16-11, 8-6 SEC) tonight at 7, 
and especially from Egbunu, who struggled 
in the Gators’ one-point loss to the Commo-
dores in Nashville on Jan. 26.
Egbunu fouled out in 23 minutes, col-
lecting two points and four rebounds while 
turning the ball over twice. It was his sec-
ond-lowest point total of the season.
During preseason scrimmages in Octo-
ber, White hoped Egbunu would develop 
into UF’s defensive anchor, allowing Florida 
to pressure on the perimeter and funnel 
guards into the paint, where Egbunu would alter shots at the rim.
That plan hasn’t quite come to fruition, 
in part due to Egbunu’s defensive and of-
fensive inconsistencies this season.
White has said that coaches have worked with the sophomore on remaining engaged 
defensively when his shots aren’t falling.
“I personally feel like my defensive mind-
set is pretty strong throughout the game,” Egbunu said.
 “But like every player, I think I’ve had 
slippages and things like that.”
Florida’s interior was overwhelmed by 
Vanderbilt center Luke Kornet in its loss last month. The 7-foot-1 junior blocked six UF shots and grabbed nine rebounds, rendering Egbunu helpless for a majority of his time on the court.
“I think he’s due for a big game here at 
some point,” White said of Egbunu. 
“We certainly would welcome that (to-
day).”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloans poses during Florida's win against Arkansas on Feb. 12 in the O'Connell Center. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Mike White yells out instructions from the sideline during Florida's 80-71 win over Ole Miss on Jan. 16 in the O'Connell Center.
LAX,  from pg 13Ronbeck scored twice in the winGYM,  from pg 13Sloan notched a meet-high score on floor against Missouri
HOOPS,  from pg 13Egbunu fouled out vs. Vandy on Jan. 26
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Shayna Pirreca runs with the ball during Florida's 12-11 win over Michigan on Feb. 13 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Gradually, the No. 5 Florida men’s golf team is learning to 
deal with adversity. 
After struggling throughout much of the Fall season, the 
team finally captured its first victory at the Florida Gulf Coast 
University Classic on Oct. 27 and caught lightning in a bottle in a 23-shot victory at the first tournament of Spring.
However, after giving up a narrow lead and finishing third 
in the SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf 
Course on Sunday, it’s back to the drawing board.
“It was the first time this year that the team had a slim 
lead going into the final round, so it was kind of a new ex-
perience for us,” head coach J.C. Deacon said. “Just came out flat.”
Slow starts and mental errors plagued the Gators’ five-
man lineup on the final day of the tournament. 
Freshman Jorge Garcia had four bogeys on the front nine 
but managed to shoot 2 under on the back nine en route to a 1-under 69.
 Overnight leader freshman Sam Horsfield began the final 
round looking for his second collegiate winin two tries. 
Instead, an even-par 70 placed him alone in second, four 
shots behind Rigel Fernandes of No. 21 South Florida.Perhaps the biggest error of the tournament, however, 
came from UF sophomore Alejandro Tosti, whose tourna-ment scores were not counted after he was disqualified for signing an incorrect scorecard. Instead of remaining in a tie 
for second with No. 13 Vanderbilt at 14 under par, the Gators 
dropped to 13 under, moving them into third place. 
“It’s tough,” Deacon said. “We worked really hard. We 
played this course more than anyone. The guys really did put a lot of time into preparing, and we are a really good team.
“I know they wanted to win and thought they would win, 
but that’s golf sometimes and really, that’s life. You can give it your all and play pretty good, and on some days, some-one’s just better.”
Even so, Deacon said he has been impressed with the 
depth, attitude and fight of this team. 
He wants Florida to learn a lesson from its recent failures 
and use it to drive them throughout the rest of the Spring season.
“The more important thing to me is how we react to it,” 
Deacon said of the loss. “We got taught a little lesson, and I think it happened for a reason.
“Hopefully we come back and use that as motivation.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
Before the Southeastern Conference Cham-
pionships began in Columbia, Missouri, the UF 
men’s swimming and diving team, ranked No. 9, had a target painted on its back. 
Despite a 2-2 record in SEC dual meets this 
season, the Gators were pegged as one of the favorites to win the SEC Championship for the fourth consecutive year. 
And they lived up to the hype, winning the 
championship with a score of 1,275 points. 
Sophomore Caeleb Dressel, who was 
named SEC Male Swimmer of the Meet, was the best overall swimmer in Columbia. Af-ter five days of competition, the Green Cove 
Springs native accumulated six individual SEC 
championships — twice as many as Florida’s next highest individual total. 
One of Dressel’s biggest performances at 
the SEC meet was in the 50-yard freestyle. His winning time of 18.23 seconds not only broke the conference and American record, but it also shattered his time from last season’s SEC meet by 0.70 seconds.
While Troy was astonished by how much 
Dressel has improved over the last year, he was not surprised by what he saw from his sophomore star.
“A few weeks ago I had him and I saw 
some things that I had never seen before in practice,” Troy said. “I was pretty certain that 
he was going to be good.”
The UF women’s team, ranked No. 9, was 
also considered one of the favorites to win the 
conference title. But with only three total vic-
tories over a five-day span and a total score of 
754 points, the Gators finished in sixth place.
Even though the UF women’s team was 
unable to match the dominance of the men’s team, there were still some exceptional perfor-mances on the women’s side last week.
Senior diver Kahlia Warner captured two 
of Florida’s three victories in the 1-meter and 3-meter dives, scoring 346.10 and 383.75 points. Having improved her technique in both dives under second-year diving coach Dale Schultz, Warner’s performance was good enough to earn her SEC Female Diver of the Meet. 
“It was about this time last year that she 
bought into what we were doing,” Schultz said. “It’s been good. She’s a trooper… and we’ve got a lot of goals ahead of us.” 
UF swimming coach Gregg Troy was proud 
of the way both of his teams performed in the SEC meet. 
As the men’s team captured its fourth con-
ference championship under his tenure, Troy admitted there was a significant increase in dif-ficulty this season. 
“For winning four in a row, this one was 
harder, there’s no doubt about it,” Troy said. “There’s an expectation that goes with cham-pionships. The guys felt that.”
Georgia and Auburn, each of which de-
feated the men’s team at home this season, were the two biggest threats to end Florida’s 
championship streak. But the Gators avenged 
their losses, edging the Tigers by 52 points and defeating the Bulldogs by 265.
Now, the Gators’ focus turns to preparing 
for the NCAA Championships, which begin on March 7.
The Gators currently have 11 guaranteed 
spots in the NCAA meet. Both the men’s and women’s teams will try to win the program’s first national championship since 1984 and 2010, respectively. 
Even with a larger field and less room for 
error ahead of them, the Gators are confident in their chances at capturing a national title.
“First time since I’ve been here at Florida 
that we’ve had five of the solidest relays we’ve 
ever had,” Troy said. 
“(If) we get up and swim great relays like 
we did this past weekend, we can swim with 
anyone.” 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti hits a chip shot during the SunTrust Gator 
Invitational on Saturday. T osti was disqualified from the tournament for signing an incorrect scorecard.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Caeleb Dressel races in the 400-meter freestyle relay during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23, in the O’Connell Center. 
MEN’S GOLF
Florida learning from defeat after home loss
Gators finish SEC competition, prepares for NCAAs
The men’s team won the SEC title16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2016
LEFT:
Kelly Grassel lines up a putt 
during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
BELOW:
Karolina Vlckova (right) celebrates with coach Emily Glaser during the 2015 SunTurst Gator Invitational at UF’s Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
Alligator File Photos
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
Monday was a day of season 
bests as the Florida women’s golf 
team ﬁ  nished on top of the lead-
erboard after an explosive second 
round at the Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Championship in New Orleans. 
Not only is UF leading the tour-
nament by seven strokes heading into the ﬁ  nal round, but three of the ﬁ  ve golfers in the team’s line-up saw signiﬁ  cant improvements 
in their standings. 
“I’m happy with the day. Over-
all, I thought we were really solid 
out there,” UF coach Emily Glaser 
said in a release.
 “I’m probably the most pleased 
with how we stuck to our strategy 
and played smart golf.”
The biggest push from Florida 
came from junior Kelly Grassel. The Chesterton, Indiana, native ﬁ  nished with a season-best 3 un-der par. Her six-shot improvement from 
day one — which was due in large part to four birdies on Monday — led to a Round 2 score of 3 under 
par.
After moving up 20 spots on 
the individual leaderboard, Gras-
sel ﬁ  nished the day in a tie for 
18th place.
Following an impressive ﬁ  rst 
round in which she ﬁ  nished tied 
for second place at 3 under par, junior Maria Torres wasn’t able to 
sustain her momentum. 
She followed her round 1 per-
formance with a Round 2 score of 
1 under par and dropped one spot into third place. 
Torres stands two strokes be-
hind Stanford’s Lauren Kim and one stroke behind Alabama’s Emma Talley. 
Joining Torres in the top 10, ju-
nior Karolina Vlckova ﬁ  nished tied for seventh place with a score of 2 under par. 
Vlckova jumped up seven spots 
after improving from an even par ﬁ  rst round to a score of 2 under par. The junior earned three bird-ies on the back nine. 
Just outside of the top 10, soph-
omore Taylor Tomlinson also aid-ed in the Gators’ ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish in Round 2, improving from even 
to 1 under par from one round to 
the next.
Unlike the rest of her team, 
freshman Sam Wagner was unable to get anything going on either 
day. 
The Windermere native was 
unable to improve her ﬁ  rst-round 
score of 3 over par and ﬁ  nished 
with the same score after the sec-
ond round.
 Wagner fell from a share of 
38th place to a share of 48th place. 
The Gators play their ﬁ  nal 
round of the tournament tomor-row at 9 a.m.
“Tomorrow we will go out and 
focus on ourselves, not the ﬁ  eld, 
and try to win the day,” Glaser 
said. 
“I’m excited for the opportunity 
we have in front of us.”
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.orgUF women’s golf tops tourney leaderboard
Gators lead by seven strokes