We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 14 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
Winning streak on the line
Florida will try to win its 30th straight game 
against Kentucky on Saturday, pg. 14
UF student remembered
A memorial was held Thursday, pg. 3
Plans revealed for The Standard apartments
They include a rooftop pool and popular restaurants, pg. 3New pizzeria oﬀ  ers slices of Sicily
Most ingredients are shipped  from Italy, pg. 5
NATIONAL
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
During a conference call with 
students Thursday, Hillary Clinton 
urged listeners to actively seek out their peers and help them register to vote. 
“Everything we do in the 61 
days until Election Day really mat-ters,” she said. 
The Clinton campaign held a 
back-to-school phone call with Democratic student leaders and campus organizers from across the 
country. Clinton discussed ways 
to help students pay off loans and the importance of millennial voters 
during the half-hour-long confer-
ence call. She also answered two questions from students. 
Kunoor Ojha, the national cam-
pus director for the campaign, re-minded students that Thursday marked two months until Election 
Day on Nov. 8. For the ﬁ  rst time, 
she said, millennials will outnum-ber baby boomers, giving them the 
power to decide the election with 
their votes. She said student organizations 
are a critical part of Clinton’s cam-paign. 
“Now is not a time to sit on the 
sidelines,” Ojha said.
When Clinton spoke, she ex-
pressed her gratitude to student or-
ganizations and voters for support-
ing her from university campuses. 
“I want to make a real differ-ence in the lives of all Americans. I 
know that’s true for you, too,” she 
told students. “I started volunteer-ing in campaigns when I was in college.”
In response to a question about 
student debt, Clinton said she in-
tends to make sure students can 
reﬁ  nance loans at lower interest  Clinton hosts student conference call, discusses improving college
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
ALMOST PHO-LL
Robert Lugo, a 20-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, drinks the remains of his ﬁ  rst bowl of 
pho, a Vietnamese noodle soup, on Thursday evening during a pho-eating contest at T aste Pho and Noodle House. About 20 people attended the event. The prize for the contest was $300.
A MOTHER AND 
SON BRING SHAVED 
ICE TO GNV
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
The hum of a generator isn’t 
loud enough to drown out the 
sound of snowball ﬁ  ghts on sum-mer days at a Save-A-Lot parking lot in Gainesville.
Linda Smith keeps the balls of 
homemade shaved ice lined up by the serving window inside Char-lie’s Snow Shack food truck, just in case any customers need to cool off.
Her son, Charlie Smith, owns 
the business, but Linda Smith is the face of the shack. Customers 
call her “Momma,” and she con-
siders them friends.
When Charlie Smith started 
the small stand ﬁ  ve years ago, the two would take turns spinning handmade signs on the corner of Northwest 13th Street to attract customers.
Charlie Smith, a Santa Fe Col-
lege graduate, said he and his mom vowed in the summer heat of a strip mall parking lot to open a store that sold shaved ice to Gainesville year-round. “That was in April of 2012,” 
Charlie Smith said. “Our goal was that by year ﬁ  ve we would have a location. We open one at the end of the month, so I guess we’re here.”
•   •   •
From 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., Linda 
Smith moves about the bright or-
ange truck, stationed in the park-
ing lot of multiple retail stores at 2649 NW 13th St.
From inside a large white cool-
er, she grabs round blocks of ice and places them into a green ma-chine.
As a foot pedal below turns 
the blocks to slivers, Linda rotates 
plastic foam cups beneath the 
freezing ﬂ  ow. An ex-bartender, she ﬂ  ips bottles upside-down with ease, ﬁ  lling the cups with ﬂ  avor and color.
“People think it’s so easy to 
shave the ice, but it’s not,” she said. “We make our own ice, we make our own sugar water — 
we’re the only ones that do marsh-
mallow and condensed milk. We have regular customers that have been following us from day one.”
Kandis Patrick, a housing 
manager at Meridian Behavioral Healthcare, said she fell in love  Snow on the street
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can now borrow 
charging cables for their phones 
and computers at Marston Science Library.
The cables are available on a 
4-hour loan with a student’s Gator 1 Card, wrote Amy Buhler, Mar-ston’s engineering librarian, in an email. Marston has six bundles, 
each equipped with ﬁ  ve chargers, 
for iPhone and Android devices.
The initiative, which cost about 
$35, was funded through Student 
Government and UF libraries, she 
said.
In April 2013, the library began 
checking out 16 battery-powered chargers to students due to the 
low number of outlets in Marston, 
Buhler said. Students checked 
these out more than 7,000 times.
After Marston renovated its ﬁ  rst 
ﬂ  oor in Fall 2014 and its second 
ﬂ  oor in Fall 2015, the library had 
more outlets for student use, so 
staff wanted to offer chargers for 
checkout, she said.Buhler said about four students 
have checked out the new charging 
cables since Monday. 
“The appreciation by the stu-
dents is priceless,” Buhler said. 
“We’ll see how these are received before investing more.”
Hannah Brusca, a UF graphic 
design freshman, heard about the new initiative from a friend. Being able to go to Marston means not carrying extra chargers, she said. 
“By the time I get to the library, 
my phone is at 20 percent, and the chargers at Marston will save me the stress of calling (Student Night-time Auxiliary Patrol) to return 
home to get it,” the 18-year-old 
said.   Charging cables now on loan at Marston Science LibrarySEE CLINTON , PAGE 5
SEE CHARLIE , PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights: Illusions    
Whether you like magic or 
testing your luck, GatorNights 
might help you hit the jackpot tonight. GatorNights will have an illusionist as a featured per-
former, bumper cars on the 
North Lawn, a money hurri-
cane, airbrush tattoos and free food. Bring some friends and 
show off your ingenuity in the 
GatorNights Escape Room. Test your hand at blackjack or rou-lette, and be sure to bring your poker face. Catch showings of “Now You See Me 2” at 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. You won’t want to miss the Multicultural Greek Council showcase in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Prepare for a barbecue at Midnight Munchies. GatorNights is al-ways Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring one guest to the event. 
Belly dancing for all ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 2410 NW 43rd St., invites you to learn the ancient art of belly dancing in a free master class by the Al Amoura Dancers. It will be Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 for more information.
Improve your public speaking 
skillsTalking Gators Toastmasters meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. The club is open to everyone. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learn-ing experience in which mem-bers are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
What Colors Do You Bleed? 
Blood DriveThe annual What Colors Do You Bleed? Blood Drive host-ed by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held from Monday to Friday. The blood drive is a competition be-tween UF and the University of Tennessee to see which school can donate the most blood. UF 
has not won since 2008. All 
donors will earn spirit points 
toward Dance Marathon and 
points for the Fall Greek Blood Drive. Donors will receive a 
T-shirt and will help save a life. 
Bloodmobiles will be located 
at the Newberry Road Donor 
Center, the Civitan Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington 
Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row 
and Gator Corner Dining Center. 
For more information, email lg-bialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
Campus Juice
Trying to get those 10 serv-ings of fruits and vegetables a day? Campus Juice, UF’s own 
healthy lifestyle club, is host-
ing a juicing workshop. Come 
out to learn how to juice, dif-ferent recipes and the health benefits of juicing. There will be refreshing juice for everyone. This is a great opportunity to learn what Campus Juice is all about: personal and community health. Campus Juice T-shirts will be available for sale. Add UF Campus Juice on Instagram for fitness and nutritional inspi-ration. Join Campus Juice for a healthy potluck Tuesday in Little Hall, Room 205, at 7:30 p.m. 
Author to discuss the war on 
drugs in MexicoA film, literature and journal-ism scholar from Washington University in St. Louis is giving a free lecture Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. In this lecture, Ignacio Sanchez Prado will show how the erosion of citizenship and the lack of economic opportuni-ty have fueled drug-related vio-lence in Mexico. In a globalized world, Mexican citizens have become more vulnerable to this form of violence. This event is first in an eight-part speaker se-ries called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide.” This series invites nationally renowned scholars and filmmakers to ex-plore unique cultural and histor-ical confrontations with death. This event is free and open to the public, and it includes time afterward for questions and dis-cussion. For more information, please visit humanities.ufl.edu.STRIVE ’s Sexual Consent Health 
Communication CampaignAre you and your friends clear 
about sexual consent? Relying 
on nonverbal communica-
tion or cultural scripts can re-
sult in sexual assault. Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence 
Education at GatorWell has cre-
ated a Sexual Consent Health 
Communication Campaign to 
help reduce the incidence of sexual assault through knowl-
edge, belief and behavior 
change. Check it out at gator-
well.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at rital@ufsa.ufl.edu for more information and to re-
quest materials.
Free English Classes and 
Citizenship Classes
The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English classes 
Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 
6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Millhopper Branch public li-brary. Anyone looking to im-prove his or her conversational English can attend. The league is also offering free citizenship classes every Thursday until Oct. 20 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the library, during which at-tendees can learn about the process of citizenship. For more information, visit latinawom-ensleague.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In an article that ran Wednesday under the headline "Vote   Latino launches UF chapter to reach voters," the Alligator misspelled Jeremy Martinez-Quinones' name.  HIGH  93° LOW  71°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 14FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Across the street from UF’s 
campus, a new apartment com-
plex will tout a rooftop pool and near-doorstep dining.
About a year after construc-
tion began on The Standard, an unveiling event was held Thurs-day at Dough Religion Pizza — and one student was randomly selected to win free rent for a year. As Rob Dinwiddie, the vice 
president of leasing and market-ing for Landmark Properties, told a crowd of about 160 people 
about the new development, at-
tendees watched a virtual walk-through of the complex.
“I can envision myself sitting 
on the edge of the inﬁ  nity pool and looking out over campus,” he said.
TargetExpress, Costa Vida  
Fresh Mexican Grill, Miami Subs Grill, Chick-ﬁ  l-A and Bento Cafe have signed on to rent space be-neath the complex, Dinwiddie said, and an AC Hotels by Mar-riott will be built within the prop-
erty as well.
For Juan Valiente, a 20-year-
old UF public relations junior, 
living at The Standard next Fall will be a step up from his current apartment at The Enclave. 
Valiente smiled as Dinwiddie 
announced he had won the free-rent package, making him the complex’s ﬁ  rst tenant. “I’m pretty shocked right 
now,” he said.
The leasing ofﬁ  ce will open 
Monday, and residents can begin 
signing leases Thursday, Dinwid-
die said.
“In Gainesville there hasn’t 
been a development that can combine this location with this kind of retail and these ameni-ties for the perfect student living package,” he said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org 
 Plans revealed for The Standard, UF student wins free rentBy Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer
Josh Hildebrandt once pulled over 
on the side of the road to check on a 
swallowtail butterﬂ  y.It was part of his passion for en-
tomology, the study of insects. His friends and family said the 30-year-old UF anthropology student, who died in his sleep Saturday from an ar-rhythmia, or abnormal heart rhythm, never failed to show care for the in-sects others may have disregarded. 
About 60 people gathered Thurs-
day to share their memories of Hil-debrandt during a memorial service at Steinmetz Hall. The service was held by UF’s Entomology and Nema-tology Department.
Several stood in the hall after all 
the seats had been ﬁ  lled, eyes closed and heads nodding, as they listened to stories of Hildebrandt’s life.
His closest friends sat up front, 
one empty seat at their table. On any other day it would have been Hildeb-randt’s.
Andrew Nisip, a 21-year-old UF 
entomology senior and close friend, said Hildebrandt had a gentleness to him. 
The two would look for insects at 
Watermelon Pond in Newberry, Flor-ida, and they once tended to a dying butterﬂ  y.
“He just had this care and appre-
ciation for life that I never really saw in anyone else,” he said.
•   •   •UF assistant research scientist 
Andrea Lucky, who worked with Hil-debrandt in her lab, joked about how others mistook him for an entomol-
ogy major.
“He had this great mind with lots 
of curiosity, and I think that’s why he 
found a community in science,” she said.
Before his death, Hildebrandt had 
been working on his senior thesis 
with Lucky, she said. Through re-
search, he became one of about ﬁ  ve experts on a particular species of 
moth.
Hildebrandt also quickly became 
friends with the about 10 other stu-
dents who worked in the lab, Lucky said.
In honor of Hildebrandt, UF’s 
entomology department created a 
scholarship fund and will be plant-
ing a persimmon tree in his honor. UF will also hold a memorial service 
Thursday at 4:30 p.m. at the Samuel 
P. Harn Museum of Art. 
“He was really amazing. He had a 
lot of heart,” Lucky said.
About six and a half years ago, Hildebrandt underwent a heart trans-
plant for a heart defect. After being on 
the waiting list for two years, a heart 
became available at the last minute, 
said Dr. Juan Aranda, who treated him for seven years.
At about that time, Hildebrandt 
became a new man, Aranda said. He 
chopped off hair he used to wear in 
a ponytail and shaved his beard. He started at Santa Fe College in 2011 
before ﬁ  nding his true calling in en-
tomology and later transferring to UF.
Gabriel Somarriba became emo-
tional as he told others about his last days with Hildebrandt.
On the morning Hurricane Her-
mine hit, Hildebrandt decided he 
wanted a McDonald’s breakfast bur-
rito. Because Gainesville locations 
were closed, they drove to Jonesville, about 11 miles west of UF.
“I wish I had known him for lon-
ger,” the 20-year-old UF entomology 
junior said.  “But I wouldn’t have 
given those two days away for the world.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org During memorial, UF student remembered for curiosity, care for life 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Sharayah Subrun wipes her eyes at the memorial for her brother Joshua Hildebrandt held on Thursday at Steinmetz Hall. Subrun said it was overwhelming to see all of his family members and friends together. 
• Rooftop pool
• Racquetball 
courts
• Yoga studio
• Golf simulator
• Study pods
• Parking garage
• Gyms• T argetExpress
• Costa Vida Fresh Mexican 
Grill
• Bento Cafe
• Chick-ﬁ  l-A
• Miami Subs GrillTHE STANDARD, OPENING FALL 2017
AMENITIES: RESTAURANTS:4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
with the shack’s sweet 
treats the ﬁ  rst time she tried one.
Now she visits at least 
four days a week, she said.
“I remember the ﬁ  rst 
time I went,” Patrick said. “I was walking into one of the stores and Miss Linda told me to come on over and try them out. I got one taste and I’ve been going ever since.”
Long, frustrating days 
at the hospital are eased by the Smiths’ hospitality — and wedding-cake ﬂ  avored shaved ice with condensed milk, she said.
“No matter how busy 
they are, the minute she sees me it’s always, ‘Hey, Kandis,’ and my snow cone is half done.” Patrick said. “I’ll follow them wherever they go.”
•   •   •
Every morning, Charlie 
Smith follows his instincts.
He commutes two hours  
from his home in Jackson-ville to help run the busi-ness. 
It was in Jacksonville 
about eight years ago that he ﬁ  rst saw a shaved-ice stand, he said.
Always an entrepreneur, 
he said after traveling and serving in the U.S. Marine Corps for ﬁ  ve years, he dab-bled in different businesses until he found the idea he wanted to grow.
“I thought, ‘Man, what a 
great idea,’” Charlie Smith said. “So I decided if I saved 
up some money that’s the 
next business venture that I want to start.”
After moving to 
Gainesville and attending Santa Fe College from 2008 to 2012, he realized the col-lege town was a prime mar-ket for opening a stand of 
his own.
Once he saved up the 
$9,000 he needed, he 
bought his ﬁ  rst truck.
His wife, Kariane, was 
hired as an attorney in Jacksonville, but Charlie Smith decided the shaved-ice demand was greater in 
Gainesville.
Now Charlie Smith com-
mutes four hours round-
trip.
He said a long-distance 
marriage is hard, but his military experience pre-pared him for it.
“Right now we’re in the 
building phases,” he said. “I’m building this business and she’s building her ca-reer, so we just meet in the middle. It sucks sometimes, but it works out.”
•   •   •
Charlie Smith said 
branching out into the com-munity was an important step he’s taken in the past few years to grow his busi-ness.
From driving his truck 
to High Dive’s monthly food truck rally to attending 
little-league football games, 
Charlie Smith said word of mouth has proved to be the Snow Shack’s most impor-tant marketing tool.
“I think the best thing 
over all this time has just been meeting people,” Charlie Smith said. “You 
meet so many from differ-
ent walks of life, people who are down on their luck and don’t have anything, and sometimes we can make their day by just giv-ing them free shaved ice. At the kids’ games, we get to watch them grow up and 
become little superstars — 
it all makes it worth it.”
This year, after expe-
riencing a bump in sales, Charlie Smith said he made enough revenue to start searching for the perfect place to house their perma-nent location. He found 12 
NW Seventh Ave.
On Seventh Avenue, 
the rent is cheap and local 
businesses thrive, he said. While he and his mother wait for the ﬁ  nishing touch-es on their new space to be completed, Charlie is reminded of when he ﬁ  rst 
started.
“It was so hard in the be-
ginning,” he said. “I didn’t 
do any research. I just did it. We learn as we go. I’m just glad it’s still fun.”
He said he wants this 
to be the small business he sticks with.
“Who knows, maybe 
one day we’ll grow so much I can open one in Jackson-ville and be with my wife,” Charlie Smith said. “That 
would be nice.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org 
CHARLIE,  from pg 1A new space is opening soon
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Linda Smith hands Kalani Breen, 11, a shaved ice cup in exchange for $3.50. Breen ordered a cherry-and-cotton-candy shaved ice with marshmallow topping, one of Charlie’s sweeter dessert options. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Malachi Breen, 12, and Kalani Breen, 11, order two shaved ices from Linda Smith at the truck window. Linda Smith said her busiest hours are from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., when Alachua County schools get out for the day.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
rates.
She added that she wants to 
make college more attainable by 
offering students a 3-year grace pe-
riod during which they don’t have 
to pay back student loans. 
Clinton also said she wants to make college campuses safer and 
healthier by increasing the avail-ability of mental-health counseling, 
child care services and addiction 
therapy on college campuses. 
“I’m very committed to making 
sure nothing interferes with your education,” she said.
Jake Best, the president of the 
student organization Gators 4 Hill-ary, participated in the phone call. 
He heard about the event 
through social media and from 
members of the campaign. He said 
Clinton’s devotion to helping peo-ple resonated with him, and the call proved that.
“They’ve been doing a great job 
at listening to what is important to us,” the 19-year-old UF journalism sophomore said.
He said Gators 4 Hillary is try-
ing to help register voters to reach 
Clinton’s goal of 3 million new vot-
ers before the election. The dead-line to register in Florida is Oct. 11. 
“We are working as hard as we 
can to make sure she wins,” he said. “It’s historic. She could be the ﬁ  rst female president.”CLINTON,  from pg. 1She discussed a student-loan grace period and voter registrationBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
After 15 minutes of slurping, 
sipping and supping to victory, one man ate an infant’s weight in soup Thursday.
Six contestants competed in 
Taste Pho and Noodle House’s second annual pho-eating con-test. The ﬁ  rst-place winner earned $300 cash, second place received 
a $150 Taste gift card and third place won a $50 gift card.
To qualify, contestants had to 
ﬁ  nish two large portions of soup in 15 minutes or less, said Hung Nguyen, the owner of Taste. He came up with the idea for the con-
test during the restaurant’s grand 
opening in 2015. 
“They basically inhale it,” he said.
This year’s contestants were 
all male and new to the contest, 
he said. Last year’s record was 5 
pounds, 1 ounce.  
This year, Michael Jenkins 
consumed 9 pounds, 1.9 ounces 
of pho. He used his hands, a fork 
and two straws. It wasn’t the 
Gainesville resident’s ﬁ  rst time 
winning an eating contest; he’s been entering them for the past 
four years.
“To win, I fast for 24 hours 
and work out hard right before,” the 49-year-old said. “I love doing contests.”
Florentino Mateo, 19, aimed to 
eat 8 pounds of pho. His strategy for his ﬁ  rst eating contest was to eat slowly, he said. The UF ap-plied physiology and kinesiol-ogy sophomore ate just under 5 pounds of pho, ﬁ  nishing in last place.
Thomas Santos, 20, came out 
to cheer on his roommate, Robert 
Lugo, who came in next to last.
“He’s got a big appetite and 
a strong heart,” Santos, a UF in-
ternational studies junior, said of Lugo. “But hopefully after this he 
won’t feel like eating for a while. 
Hopefully he’ll have food PTSD.”
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org  Gainesville man becomes pho champ at local eating contest
He ate nearly 10 pounds of beef noodles
TOPICS CLINTON DISCUSSED:  
• Debt-free college
• Reﬁ  nancing student loans
• Goal to register 3 million new 
voters by Election Day
• Health and safety on college 
campuses 
• Three-year grace period for 
student loansThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JUNE 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
When internet trolls and free speech collide
By the time you read this, it will have been 
more than a month since Twitter took action in what could be a fatal turning point in this social-media giant’s life. On July 19, in the middle of the hot, sweaty 
media mess that was the Republican National Convention, Twitter took action against the out-spoken conservative journalist Milo Yiannopou-los. What resulted was yet another bloody clash of views on free speech along party lines.
If you don’t know Yiannopoulos, then you 
probably don’t frequent the peculiar corners of the inter-net he is the self-proclaimed ruler of. I’m talking about quite an eclectic army: young political conservatives, in-
ternet trolls, gamers, bloggers, hard-core libertarians and 
numerous other marginalized individuals. Over the past year, Yiannopoulos took the humdrum conservative scene by storm. With his controversial columns on breitbart.com and college-speaking engagements that often result in protests and viral videos of ensuing madness, Yiannopou-los has embraced being the anti-politically-correct voice of the right wing.
Every voice needs an outlet, and Yiannopoulos’ was cer-
tainly Twitter. As a former follower of Yiannopoulos, I can say one quickly grows accustomed to his dubious online behavior. Seeing someone else say things most others shy away from adds some zest to one’s timeline, and I began to be entertained by his zeal for his First Amendment rights.
That was, until he was silenced. He was not corrected 
or momentarily censored. He had his entire voice removed.
You cannot say he wasn’t warned, as he often pointed 
out — and even ﬂ  aunted — Twitter’s complaints and warn-
ings about his online behavior. Yiannopoulos was always 
fully aware of Twitter’s rules and community guidelines, as well as his inherent rights as a citizen. So what was the straw that broke the camel’s back?
“Ghostbusters.” Well, kind of.Yiannopoulos wrote a ferociously negative review of 
the “Ghostbusters” remake, taking aim at the actresses’ performances in the ﬁ  lm, including “Saturday Night Live” cast member Leslie Jones. After a few back-and-forth tweets with Yiannopoulos, Jones found herself having to fend off hordes of barbaric, salivating trolls who came equipped with racist, sexist, mean tweets. It wasn’t long before Jones 
was fed up with the abuse — and rightfully so.
But Twitter’s responsive actions were the 
fateful match that sparked the ﬂ  ame: Twitter of-
ﬁ  cially banned Yiannopoulos’s account.
Despite the fact that Yiannopoulos never told 
anyone to verbally abuse Jones, he was treated 
and targeted as the ringleader of the trolls who heaved abusive comments her way. He took the ultimate punish-ment for the asinine behavior of others. In a matter of 
minutes, the news spread and #FreeMilo began trending 
worldwide.
The issue of free speech should be simple, but this 
whole situation gets blurry when you realize Twitter is its own company with its own policies in place — policies that each user must agree to abide by before making an account. If a Twitter user’s speech threatens another and violates the site’s community guidelines, Twitter can act. The problem is Yiannopoulos claims to have never actu-
ally broken said guidelines. Yes, Yiannopoulos can be a 
jerk, but he has every right to be.
There’s nothing wrong with Twitter taking action to 
protect one of its users. The problem lies in the fact that the company punished an innocent user based on the words of others. Some may view this as Twitter targeting outspoken conservatives, but I believe the true injustice is that Twitter decided to solve this issue and send a mes-sage not through discussion or regulation, but by remov-
ing the voice of a user altogether.
And more importantly, does this silencing stop at Yian-
nopoulos? What about when more issues like this occur? 
All it takes is justifying one to justify another. If such si-lencing continues, can Twitter be counted on as a home for free speech? It appears not.
Andrew Hall is a UF business administration junior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
Life is strange. The future is unpredictable. You ﬁ  nd that 
scary. You seek answers everywhere, but the more you dis-
cover, the less you know. The confusion slowly dissipates, 
and fear starts to take its place. All hope seems lost. In the 
darkness, you see a ﬂ  icker of light. With curiosity ablaze you chase after the glimmer, and as you grow nearer and nearer you stumble upon the Friday edition of the Indepen-
dent Florida Alligator. In it, you ﬁ  nd something that makes 
everything okay. That something is…
Darts & Laurels
Perhaps the most absurd political argument we’ve heard 
this week is the whole “Hillary Clinton had a cough”  
thing. With all the questionable political arguments Clin-
ton has engaged in, the fact that people have to resort to a 
cough is simply pathetic. It shows absolutely no interest in actually solving the problems that plague our great country. Regardless, a dart to the human respiratory system for 
spazzing out and giving Clinton’s opposition some super-
market tabloid/grandparent email crap to complain about for the whole week.
Moving away from the tabloids, a group of Italian re-
searchers found a cluster of stars that gives clues to the 
universe’s mysterious past. These stars, according to the study’s lead scientist, professor Francesco Ferraro of the University of Bologna, represent “the ﬁ  rst cosmic structure at the time when the universe was a baby, just 1 billion 
years old.” We give a laurel to you, professor Ferraro, for 
giving us this amazing picture of our past.
Speaking of the past, musical genius Justin Vernon  
and his most popular musical project, Bon Iver, have not 
released a full-length album since their self-titled album, 
“Bon Iver, Bon Iver,” which debuted in 2011. In three short 
weeks, their newest album, “22, A Million,” will be released. To tease us, Vernon has released three gorgeous singles. A laurel is therefore presented to Vernon’s ethereal voice  
for blessing us with these early album gifts.
Actually, a lot of very sweet gifts were given out this 
week. For us Floridians, there was an especially nice one. You may remember Florida Attorney General Pam Bon-di for her decision not to join in on the infamous Trump 
University (the university whose own employees called it a 
huge fraud) Lawsuit. As a thank-you, Donald Trump held a fundraiser for her that cost him about $150,000. We gift a dart to not only everybody involved in this obnoxious 
political game, but also to everyone who has criticized Hillary Clinton for less but will not call out Trump. 
That’s it, dear reader. We live in a world of inconsis-
tency. We are part of a Gator generation that saw a minor-ity party gain an electoral victory in Student Government. 
While the status quo was quickly restored, we could not 
help but notice nine parties are registered for the Fall elec-tion cycle. While there is no denying campus politics are going to be unbelievably wacky this year, the fact that the 
Taco Libre Party might be making a resurgence is a bless-
ing. We give a preemptive laurel to everyone who votes in the SG elections for hopefully not wasting their vote on this comically narrow-interest party, and one to Taco Libre Party for caring so intensely for tacos’ rights on campus.
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
preserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTESWhen San Francisco 49ers 
quarterback Colin Kae-pernick protested the national anthem before an NFL preseason game 
Aug. 26, I felt the ensuing outrage was overblown. I agreed with President Obama’s response — it is Kaepernick’s constitutional right to protest what he sees as a prob-lem of racism and police brutality in America. By the same token, it is also the right of those who disagree with him to criti-cize him for his method of protest. As far as I was concerned, the discussion ended there.
What really brought my attention to the 
Kaepernick ﬁ  restorm was when he showed up to a press conference wearing a T-shirt displaying a meeting between Malcolm X and Fidel Castro. This is when Kaepernick’s cred-ibility was all but crushed in my eyes. In one moment, he went from a celebrity ostensibly using his fame to further a social cause to basi-cally a naive college “radical” sporting a Che Guevara pin on his backpack.
For someone who claims to stand up for 
the oppressed, it seems Kaepernick is not very well-versed in Fidel’s human-rights record, which includes an estimated 15,000 political executions, 1.5 million refugees, forced labor camps and, of course, systemic racism.
Kaepernick is part of a more acute problem 
that goes beyond him: the increasing radical-ization of the Black Lives Matter movement, with which Kaepernick identiﬁ  es. The BLM movement originated in response to serious and legitimate problems like racial inequal-ity, police brutality and racial proﬁ  ling. Since then, the movement has adopted a broad and radical platform that includes criticisms of the U.S., capitalism, corporations and even Israel. Whereas these criticisms are undoubtedly protected by the Con-stitution, it is the antagonistic and extreme tone of the movement’s platform that raises concern. 
Not only is BLM overwhelming 
its agenda with too many issues, but it is also adopting unpopular stances that erode its credibility and delegitimize otherwise legitimate causes (such as police reform). 
BLM is shooting itself in the foot. In order for a movement to be successful, it must seek prog-ress courageously but realistically. When too much anger is generated, social polarization is the result, not actual change. 
What began as a legitimate protest of sys-
temic racism in the police has distorted itself into a sort of misguided radicalism that can alienate potential allies and further aggravate tensions. It is therefore no surprise that black church leaders have already come out in condemnation of many aspects of the move-ment’s platform.
Kaepernick is simply one microcosm of 
this greater problem: the perversion and radi-calization of BLM. Protesting racism in the police is one thing; identifying with a brutal dictator is another. In order to achieve actual social change, one must seek to establish the mechanisms for change in a pragmatic and so-ber manner, like Martin Luther King Jr. did 50 years ago. As we have learned from our past, a generalized anti-establishment ideology will not achieve progress; it will only produce mass hysteria, polarization and, ultimately, something closer to fascism than sensible po-litical reform.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science 
and telecommunication senior. His column 
appears on Fridays.
Kaepernick and radical social justiceColumn
Julian 
Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgI didn’t have many friends growing up. The few friends I did have were only made be-cause we were stuck together for X number of hours every 
day from elementary school until high-school graduation. Most of them didn’t stick around too long after the classrooms no longer held us together. I realized shortly after graduation I would be go-ing into college entirely alone in a completely new city, and I was terriﬁ  ed. But now Gainesville feels more like home than 
my hometown ever did. I feel like I belong 
here, and I’ve found my niche. I’m able to sur-round myself with people whom I genuinely care about and who genuinely care about me. What scares me, though, is that this is a town where a solid chunk of its population is con-stantly in transit, so it’s almost impossible to tell how long these people will be in my life.
Maintaining relationships is one of my big-
gest issues, mostly because I hate the feeling 
of loss that comes when a relationship ends. 
I think just about everyone can relate to that. Because Gainesville is a college town, the majority of the people are only here for a set 
amount of time and then they’re off to build 
their futures elsewhere. It has often made me 
wonder if I should even bother with form-ing attachments to anyone I meet. But I’ve learned to shake that feeling despite it becom-
ing more and more apparent to me that I’m 
one of the only ones who hasn’t planned on 
setting sail and moving away immediately af-ter graduation. I don’t have much of a plan, to be honest. But that’s another story.
I’ve tried to solve my attachment issue by 
spending most of my time with friends who are at least a few years older than I am, be-cause I know they’re already done with the school system and they’ll probably stick around for a bit longer. But I am trying to make connections with more people in my age range so I don’t have to keep hearing stories that start with, “When I was your age.” Sure, I’ll make small talk with some of the students in my classes, but I do this knowing they’ll more than likely be moving on to a new town in a few years, too. Maybe 
we’ll stay in touch on social media or grab lunch every once in a while if our paths cross, and that’s perfectly OK. There has been a time or three when one of my classroom acquain-tances became a huge part of who I am — one of them is even my cat’s godfather, so now we’re stuck together for life.
So, what’s the point in bringing all of this 
up? For those who are overwhelmed by the transient state of Gainesville, as I was for so long, don’t fret. Whatever the case may be, living in a town in transit will have its ups and downs. You may have an entirely dif-ferent group of friends by the end of your senior year than the one you started college with. But you’ll discover the beneﬁ  ts to this lifestyle, too — like having a place to crash in so many different states that you might as well plan a post-graduation road trip to visit them all.
A word of advice for those of you who are 
new to town: Talk to your classmates. Strike up a conversation with people you meet walk-ing through Turlington Plaza. Get to know your neighbors. Gainesville has been home to some of the best people I’ve ever met, and it would be a shame to let anything get in the way of life-changing relationships.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.
Slow down and love life around youColumn
Alexa 
DeLoera
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
IT’S PART OF A 
75-MILE RACE.
By Cindy Barski
Alligator Contributing Writer
As UF student Samuel Lapeyre 
races to St. Augustine on Saturday, 
his time delivering food for Jimmy John’s Sandwiches may come in 
handy.
Joined by students and resi-
dents, the 23-year-old electrical 
engineering senior will ride his bi-
cycle about 75 miles to the historic 
city as a part of the Gainesville-At-
lantic 75 bicycle race.
Hosted by The Freewheel Proj-
ect, located at 618 S. Main St., the timed race will be divided by check-
points, said Joe Ergle, a 27-year-old 
UF sociology junior and one of the event’s organizers.
In previous years, the race was 
held by the now-closed Swift Cy-
cle, Ergle said. Registration for the race will take place from 5 p.m. to 
9 p.m. during a pre-race party at The Freewheel Project. 
The race will begin 8 a.m. Satur-
day, he said.
Lapeyre, who has raced compet-
itively before, said he feels discon-nected when he rides his bicycle — 
even when he’s racing. Sometimes, 
he said, he’ll play music and “zone 
out” for hours.
“There’s nothing to think about 
or worry about,” he said.
He said the Gainesville-Atlantic 
75 will be much more “casual” than other races he has competed 
in, like a cross-Florida race that 
took him from Tallahassee to Day-
tona last January.
Lapeyre said although he is ex-
cited for the race, the post-race fes-tivities may be just as fun.
“I don’t really know what to ex-
pect. I’m just going to ride my bike 
for 75 miles and drink some beer,” 
Lapeyre said. Locals  bike to St. Augustine
MOST INGREDIENTS 
ARE IMPORTED 
FROM ITAL Y
By Carolyn Batt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Since its opening last week, V 
Pizza in downtown Gainesville has 
offered slices of Sicily to hungry lo-
cals.
The newly opened pizza par-
lor caters to customers hoping for 
something more than an average 
pie, said David Villmow, a manag-ing partner at V Pizza.
“Our claim to fame is authentic 
Napoletana-style pizza,” he said, 
adding that the restaurant’s cook-
ing methods date back nearly 2,000 years.
Located at 115 SE First Ave., the 
shop opened Aug. 28. It has three 
other locations in Jacksonville, 
Villmow said.
For the past week, V Pizza has seen a couple hundred customers every day, said Derek Burns, the front-of-the-house manager. 
In addition to menu options 
that range from pizza to stromboli, the shop’s location near the Hip-podrome State Theatre has served as a “big pull for people,” Villmow said.
“It’s the perfect spot for us,” he 
said.
With about 75 percent of the 
restaurant’s ingredients shipped di-
rectly from Italy, pizza prices range 
from $14 to $18, he said.
“Once you try out the food, you 
get it,” he said. “It’s completely dif-
ferent.”
Gainesville resident Duncan 
Kabinu tried V Pizza for the ﬁ  rst time Thursday. After eating a sau-sage-topped pizza, he said the crust and authenticity of the parlor’s pies 
set it apart from others in the city.
“There’s nothing like a wood-
ﬁ  red pizza,” he said. New pizzeria oﬀ  ers  Sicilian slices
By Karissa Diomampo
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander Affairs of-
ﬁ  ce is welcoming its third director today.
From noon to 2 p.m. at the Re-
itz Union, Suite 2210, the department 
will host a meet-and-greet with Krystie Nguyen, who became the new director of APIA on Aug. 8. Students will have the chance to meet Nguyen and ask her questions along with Shalini Mirpuri, a 
newly hired graduate assistant for the de-
partment. This is the ﬁ  rst time the direc-tor and graduate assistant of the depart-
ment are both women.
“I am excited to see the love and sup-
port that UF has for our APIA commu-
nity,” Nguyen said. 
She said she plans on discussing her visions and goals during the event. 
Nguyen worked as the Cross-Cultural 
Student Affairs coordinator at Louisiana State University before coming to UF. She declined to reveal her salary as di-
rector. 
Mona Sayedul Huq, a former gradu-
ate assistant for the ofﬁ  ce who has 
worked for Multicultural and Diversity Affairs for eight years, has seen APIA go from having three student ambassadors to more than 20.
With the new space and Nguyen’s 
leadership, the 26-year-old said she saw student ambassadors becoming more en-
thusiastic about reaching out to students. 
“I think everyone is excited to see 
what Krystie is going to do,” the UF 
health and human performance doctoral candidate said.   Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander Aﬀ  airs hosts event with new directorWHAT TO TRY
• Pizza Carnivora: 
sausage, pancetta, sopressata, roasted garlic: $18
• Pizza Alla Di Pollo:  
chicken wings, caramelized onion, 
Gorgonzola: $17
• The V Stromboli: 
sausage, pepperoni, Peppadew peppers: $15
• Meatball Panini:  gluten-
free, grass-fed meat, mozzarella, tomato sauce: $9
• Macaroni and Cheese:  
smoked Gouda, cream cheese, pesto: $5
Nguyen
She plans to discussFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff writer
A multimillion-dollar grant is 
helping UF expand a one-of-a-
kind digital library of specimens.
On Tuesday, UF received a 
$15.5 million grant from the 
National Science Foundation to 
continue digitizing millions of 
specimens in collections from across the nation. 
IDigBio, a project led by UF, 
is the first of its kind. The grant will expand the digital database of specimens from collections in 270 institutions in all 50 states, said Larry Page, the iDigBio di-rector and the ichthyology cu-rator at the Florida Museum of 
Natural History.
The database should be able 
to help researchers make faster 
and more accurate predictions of the future, including climate 
change, Page said. 
“Basically, the information 
and data now are readily avail-
able,” he said.   
IDigBio.org contains 64 mil-
lion species records and 14 mil-lion images, he said. 
The museum, in collaboration 
with UF’s College of Engineer-
ing and Florida State University, 
will share the grant. Of the fund-ing, $3 million will go to FSU re-searchers. 
The program, started in 2011 
by the foundation, was given to 
UF with an original grant of $10 
million for five years, Page said. 
The new grant will continue 
the program for another five years and double the size of its 
database.
Paul Ramey, a spokesman for 
the museum, said the program 
has expanded over the years.
“Ideally researchers — or any-
one — will be able to go online and view a specimen from a col-lection from anywhere, wherever it may be,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org     UF receives grant to expand Florida Museum’s digital database
 Courtesy to the Alligator
Zachary Randall, an ichthyology collections technician, prepares to 
photograph a specimen at the Florida Museum of Natural History. 
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
An ongoing study is exploring the 
relationship between mussels and marsh grass, which can help restore ecosystems affected by drought.
Periods of drought in coastal eco-
systems across the Southeastern U.S., which can dry marsh soil, may lead to toxic conditions for vegetation, said Christine Angelini, a UF assistant pro-fessor of environmental engineering sciences.
Angelini, who helped lead the study, 
said mussels can prevent marsh soil from drying by creating small pockets of water. After conducting research in several different areas, Angelini found that grass surrounded by clusters of mussels was more likely to survive drought.
She said the idea that mussels can 
help heal dying marshes is new, but it’s been known for decades that mussels can stimulate grass growth. 
“Both species protecting one anoth-
er can be really important in a variety of extreme climatic events,” Angelini said. 
Currently, Angelini’s team is looking 
into transplanting mussels into strug-gling marshes as a proactive measure.
- Molly VosslerAn August study led by a UF pro-
fessor has discovered a noninvasive and less expensive method to track the progression of Parkinson’s disease.
The approach uses brain-imaging 
biomarkers and does not require injec-tions, potentially costing thousands of dollars less than other methods, said David Vaillancourt, a professor in UF’s Department of Applied Physiology and Kinesiology. The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health.
Vaillancourt said the new method 
could be helpful in future studies to evaluate medication used to slow the progression of the disease.
“In Parkinson’s disease, there are good medications that control symp-toms,” Vaillancourt said. “But the major, unmet medical need is medica-tions that slow the progression — so that’s why it’s important.”
The method can be applied to other 
diseases that share similar symptoms of Parkinson’s disease such as multi-ple-system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy.
Vaillancourt said he will continue 
his research by testing speciﬁ  c medi-cations in a placebo-controlled study over the next ﬁ  ve years.
- Molly VosslerThe $15.5 million will be shared by UF and FSU 
Relationship between mussels and marsh grass found to be beneﬁ  cial UF professor helps discover new method to study Parkinson’s diseaseFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 SubleaseFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!! Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000
2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free Towing
 Same Day Pick-Up and Pay Available
Call 888-689-8647     9-9-1-12
 DONATE YOUR CAR
FOR BREAST  CANCER!
Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST  FREE PICKUP  - 24 HR RESPONSE  
TAX DEDUCTION1-866-594-4556      9-9-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Teach English in Japan with NOVA! We are seeking enthusiastic and profes-sional individuals to join our teaching team in Japan!  For more information visit: http://www.nova.co.jp/hd/teachinjapan/    9-9-16-5-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working studentPART-TIME HOUSEWORK / LAND MAINTENANCE ON WEEKENDS.Start at $10/hr.Contact: FairOaks1879@aol.com     9-14-16-5-14
Home/Apartment/office cleaners needed ASAP. Weekly pay 8.50/hr $200-$350 week-ly. Must have a reliable car of your own and be able to pass a drug/background check. If really interested please call 352-214-0868.     9-15-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!
Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479-7963         9-9-1-15Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305     9-9-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?
You and Your Family May be entitled
to significant CASH AWARD.
Call 1-855-389-3099       9-9-1-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?
Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help Line
For a free assessment, 1-855-995-3142     
9-9-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?
Settle for a fraction of what you owe!
Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates  1-877-330-3429      9-9-
1-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Crudités
enhancers
5 __ puppet
9 Hot dogs and
hams
14 With, on la carte15 Tartan wearers16 Lowest deck on a
ship
17 Gadget that
exercises the wrist
18 Spydom name19 Crisp20 Beer made in
Johannesburg?
23 Lorry supply
24 Deck wood25 Chi. setting28 Citrus suffix29 Letter before
upsilon
31 Ranking
33 One who aspires
to be the king ofbeers?
36 Run out39 Larter of TV’s
“Heroes”
40 Tip for a dealer
41 Sounds from a
brewery?
46 “Life of Pi” Oscar
winner
47 Justice dept.
heads
48 Form 1040 fig.
51 Welker of the
NFL
52 Highbrow
55 Oil once touted
by Florence
Henderson
57 Toast said while
hoistingpresidentialbeer?
60 Gourd fruit62 Happy __63 Fluency64 Mesmerizing
designs
65 Dark cloud
66 They may not be
quiet on the set
67 Fords a stream68 Gps. with copays69 Paris’ __ Neuf
DOWN
1 Place for
pampering
2 Polling place
sticker words3 Desert
hallucinogen
4 Use a Brillo pad
5 Learned one6 Evil count of “A
Series of
Unfortunate
Events”
7 Stone measure8 Word with bread
and butter
9 Sobriquet
10 Los Angeles
mayor Garcetti
11 Actor with eight
Oscarnominations (andone win)
12 Cover
13 Many a character
in “The
Americans”
21 Wizard revealer22 Coarse file
26 Tie up
27 One on a
cartoon desertisland
30 State with five
national parks
32 Trifles33 Marmalade
ingredient
34 Nevada copper
town35 Beatles girl with a
“little white book”
36 Weak spot
37 Hatcher’s “Lois &
Clark” role
38 Sandwich spread42 Feels sore about
43 Monopoly deed
word
44 Sinclair Lewis
nominated him for
the 1932 NobelPrize in Literature45 Tiny time meas.
48 Italian cheese
49 Takes the stage50 Overrun
53 Energy
54 Players riding the
pine
56 Docile sorts58 Mythology59 Circle 
overhead?
60 Do the lawn61 AQI monitor
By Patti Varol©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/09/1609/09/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 9, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/NoticesFind your calling.
Alligator Classifieds.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
ELVIS ROCKS!
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Savannah Jordan and the Florida soccer team defeated Kentucky 2-1 last night.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports . T ebow signs minor league deal 
Former Florida star quarterback Tim T ebow signed a minor league baseball 
deal with the New York Mets, the club announced Thursday. T ebow's 
contract will include a $100,000 signing bonus, according to The Associated Press. By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
To date, Carli Snyder, Alex 
Holston and Rhamat Alhassan 
have been the pulse of Florida volleyball’s attack.
Responsible for more than 
72 percent of the Gators’ kills, the trio has propelled an offense that ranks third in the nation in hitting percentage. 
They’re undoubtedly effec-
tive. And yet, in hopes of con-tinuing the team’s early suc-cesses through this weekend’s Blackbird Invitational and be-yond, coach Mary Wise is look-ing to shake things up.“From an offensive stand-
point, we’re trying to, even as efﬁ  cient as we are, become even more diverse,” she said.
Throughout practice this 
week, Wise has pushed the No. 8-ranked Gators to vary their of-fensive efforts. 
And with a Saturday morn-
ing tilt against the University of Denver looming, there’s little question as to why.
Though unranked, Denver’s 
4-3 record belies its potential. After an upset win against then-No. 20 Loyola Marymount, the Pioneers have the tools to pos-sibly stymie Florida’s vaunted three-headed monster. Senior middle blocker Ruth 
Okoye anchors a front line that ranks 19th nationally in blocks per set — the 6-foot-1 native of Aurora, Colorado, places among the country’s elite in both blocks per set (14th) and total blocks (6th).
UF, however, believes it is 
well-equipped to tear down that wall. 
“Our team is playing so well 
together right now, and just with our hitters hitting such a high efﬁ  ciency, it’s making my job a lot easier,” redshirt sopho-more setter Allie Monserez said. 
“Almost every ball, I have 
ﬁ  ve options out of any posi-tion.”
Those options work to later-
ally stretch an opponent’s de-fense, challenging middle block-ers to sprint cross-court and defend at either pin. 
“As a team, other hitters are 
really opening people up,” Sny-der said. 
Given the talent that per-
vades the Gators’ starting rota-tion, sheer presence plays a role as well.
“Rhamat Alhassan is such a 
force to be reckoned with in the middle that, as a pin hitter, it re-ally does open me up,” Snyder FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
PICKS
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain looked confused, 
as if he was prepared for every pos-sible question except for the one that was just asked.
Are you hoping to avoid a let-
down against a mediocre Kentucky team?
“Us, letdown?” the coach said. 
“Look, we’re 0-3 after the end of the year last year, right? I mean, we got our tails kicked. We gotta show up no matter (who) it is.”
The Florida football team hasn’t 
lost to Kentucky since 1986. That was when McElwain was just 24 years old and a graduate assistant at Eastern Washington. That’s 29-straight games.
But when asked whether Florida 
would take Saturday’s game light-ly, an annual matchup against the Wildcats that UF hasn’t lost at home 
since 1979, McElwain wasn’t think-
ing about the two schools’ history.
Instead, he was thinking about UF’s end to last year, when it lost 
three consecutive games to FSU, Alabama and Michigan by a com-
bined margin of 97-24.
“Great teams, the opponents 
don’t matter,” McElwain said. “It’s 
the personal part of the prepara-tion and taking pride in who you 
are. ...and that’s where we’ve got 
to learn.”
McElwain isn’t thinking about 
UF’s streak against Kentucky (0-1). 
He’s more focused on what UF has 
to correct for Week 2. 
After Saturday’s win, he criti-
cized his offensive line for its lack of 
energy and hustle, and called UF’s penalty problems “disappointing” after a game in which the Gators (1-0) committed three personal fouls.
He expects his underperforming 
running back group — which com-bined for just 96 rushing yards in its debut — to be better. 
And, with the return of corner 
Jalen Tabor from a one-game sus-
pension, McElwain expects more 
production from his defensive backs.
“We’ve just got to come out and 
punch them in the mouth ﬁ  rst,” cor-ner Quincy Wilson said.
Kentucky coach Mark Stoops 
was embarrassed by Southern Miss 
at home in Week 1, losing 44-35, 
but saw ﬂ  aws from a Florida team 
that didn’t take a two-touchdown lead over UMass until the fourth quarter.
And although he’s aware of the 
history between the two teams, Stoops is ignoring the noise.
“The past 30 years have nothing 
to do with us and this team,” Stoops 
said.
Wilson disagrees. The junior de-
fensive back is looking forward to 
opening conference play early after not having a pass thrown his way against UMass.
“I think that will deﬁ  nitely get 
the energy going,” he said with a smile. “We know we have a real opponent this week.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgWinning streak on line vs. Kentucky
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain looks on during UF's  24-7 win over UMass on Saturday. 
The alligatorSports Brand Picks 
Column is back, which means there 
must be a football game coming up. 
But we’ll get to that later. There’s 
more pressing football news going 
on at a baseball diamond in Port St. Lucie. That’s right, Gator fans. Your good ole friend and former UF foot-ball star Tim Tebow signed with the New York Mets on Thursday (conveniently going to a team with an orange-and-blue color scheme), received a $100,000 signing bonus and will report to the franchise’s in-structional league on Sept. 18.
How far he goes (or if he even 
plays) is to be determined, but we’ll see how that plays out.
I mean, it can’t be as bad as his 
NFL career, right?
Now that that’s out of the way, 
let’s get to some football.
Debating the game of the week 
— a Saturday-night showdown in the Hawkeye State between Iowa and Iowa State — are alligatorS-ports editor Ian Cohen and staff writer Jordan McPherson.
Iowa (-15) will win because…Forget Florida vs. Florida State, 
Auburn vs. Alabama and Michigan vs. Ohio State. 
Iowa vs. Iowa State is the na-
tion’s real top rivalry. 
And while this one is sure to be 
a nail-biter, the No. 16 Hawkeyes will eventually break away in the fourth quarter and put their in-state foes to rest. Trust me, I’m an ex-pert.
-Ian Cohen
Iowa State (+15) will win be-
cause…
If last week proved anything, 
it’s that there is no such thing as 
a guaranteed win. Why should this game be any different? Yes, the SITE: The Swamp (cap. 88,548)
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m., SaturdayTV /RADIO: CBS/GatorsIMG          Sports
SEE STORY,  PAGE 15 SEE STORY,  PAGE 15VOLLEYBALL
UF looking to diversify attack this weekendUK hasn't won since 1986FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Cyclones are the underdog. And 
they’re facing a top-20 team. And 
they’ve lost eight of their last nine 
games. … Wait, what was the 
point I’m trying to make?
-Jordan McPherson
Now onto the picks!In ﬁ  rst place with a 7-1 re-
cord is alligatorSports editor Ian 
“Shoobie” Cohen, who comfort-ably embraces the fact that he wears socks with his sandals while working in the ofﬁ  ce. Yes, Ian, it’s undeniably cold at the Al-ligator ofﬁ  ce. But come on, man. Don’t be one of those guys. Also, if you didn’t catch the Rocket Power reference — shout out to kids who watched Nickelodeon in 
the ‘90s — don’t worry. Ian didn’t 
either.
Next up and drastically be-
hind Ian with equal 4-4 records, 
we have a four-way tie for second place.
First up is online editor Patrick 
“Princess” Pinak, who had quite 
a ﬁ  t in the ofﬁ  ce on Sunday when he found out the Alligator's fanta-sy football draft was done through NFL.com instead of ESPN. Sorry, Patrick, we know you think NFL.com is the "Wal-Mart of fantasy football", but try to put your bias-es aside for one season. We know it'll be tough, but we all believe 
in you. 
Second is staff writer Jordan 
“What is sleep?” McPherson, who, 
when assigned to write a school 
paper about a time he ventured 
out of his comfort zone, decided 
to write about a night last week 
when he got 10 hours of sleep. 
Dude, put the Excel sheets away 
and get some shuteye. Your pre-
cious statistics will still be there 
when you wake up.
Third among the tied group is 
the Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Do your homework” Hall, who was 
called out by Gators coach Jim McElwain for not being prepared when he asked a question at Sat-urday’s postgame press confer-ence. Hey, Graham, we know you barely made it out of UF with a degree. It’s time to start being an adult and actually know what the hell you’re talking about.
Rounding out the tie for second 
is Gator Country’s Nick “movie 
buff” De La Torre, who was called 
out by Gators defensive line coach 
Chris Rumph (and basically the 
entire UF media corps) when he 
argued that Samuel L. Jackson 
was a one-role actor. That’s not 
gonna ﬂ  y here, Nick. And let’s 
face it: It’s not like you’re going 
to star in a major motion picture anytime soon.
In sixth place boasting a 3-5 
record is alligatorSports assistant editor Ethan “reeks of redneck” Bauer, who tries to hide his true self from the rest of the media by being the most dressed up person every time he goes into public. Embrace your inner Southerner, Ethan. In fact, wear jean shorts to the press box on Saturday. People will love you for being you.
Joining Ethan in sixth place 
is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “anti-hair transplant” Thompson, 
who went on a well-documented 
rampage before a recent media 
availability about his disdain for 
guys who go out of their way to 
remedy their baldness. Yes, Ed-gar, we get that you’re able to cope with your receding hairline, but that doesn’t mean every bald guy wants to hide his shiny head under a mad hat.
And in dead-ass-last with a 
piss-poor record of 2-6 is Thomas “drive-by” Goldkamp, who took to Twitter to discuss how his at-tempts to park on UF’s campus this week have “turned into a creepy game of ‘stalk whoever’s 
walking’ in your car at 3 MPH.” 
We get it, Goldkamp. Parking 
at UF sucks. But if you spent as 
much time on your picks as you 
did trying to park your car, you 
might not be in the situation 
you’re in right now. 
To see our picks, visit alligator.
org/sports.
PICKS,  from pg 14
said. 
“We always laugh after one 
of the pins gets a kill because 
it’s you, the setter, the passers, 
but it’s also the middles who are 
holding a block for you. We say 
Rhamat should get half a kill for every kill we get, too.”
At this stage, Wise is looking 
for regular contributions from her 
entire roster. 
If the Gators can execute 
against Denver, Sunday’s contest 
against hosts LIU Brooklyn — a team that has lost 18 of 21 sets 
played — ought to serve as a ﬁ  nal tuneup before next Wednesday’s showdown at Florida State. 
Should Florida tweak its game 
to Wise’s desire, it’ll be in prime position for conference play.
“It’s not about where you are 
pre-conference,” she said, “it’s about playing your best volleyball at the end.
“Everything we do is big pic-
ture, long term.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 14UF faces Denver on Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson (right) kneels next to teammate Marcus Maye during Florida's 24-7 win over UMass on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Cyclones are the underdog. And 
they’re facing a top-20 team. And 
they’ve lost eight of their last nine 
games. … Wait, what was the 
point I’m trying to make?
-Jordan McPherson
Now onto the picks!In ﬁ  rst place with a 7-1 re-
cord is alligatorSports editor Ian 
“Shoobie” Cohen, who comfort-ably embraces the fact that he wears socks with his sandals while working in the ofﬁ  ce. Yes, Ian, it’s undeniably cold at the Al-ligator ofﬁ  ce. But come on, man. Don’t be one of those guys. Also, if you didn’t catch the Rocket Power reference — shout out to kids who watched Nickelodeon in 
the ‘90s — don’t worry. Ian didn’t 
either.
Next up and drastically be-
hind Ian with equal 4-4 records, 
we have a four-way tie for second place.
First up is online editor Patrick 
“Princess” Pinak, who had quite 
a ﬁ  t in the ofﬁ  ce on Sunday when he found out the Alligator's fanta-sy football draft was done through NFL.com instead of ESPN. Sorry, Patrick, we know you think NFL.com is the "Wal-Mart of fantasy football", but try to put your bias-es aside for one season. We know it'll be tough, but we all believe 
in you. 
Second is staff writer Jordan 
“What is sleep?” McPherson, who, 
when assigned to write a school 
paper about a time he ventured 
out of his comfort zone, decided 
to write about a night last week 
when he got 10 hours of sleep. 
Dude, put the Excel sheets away 
and get some shuteye. Your pre-
cious statistics will still be there 
when you wake up.
Third among the tied group is 
the Gainesville Sun’s Graham “Do your homework” Hall, who was 
called out by Gators coach Jim McElwain for not being prepared when he asked a question at Sat-urday’s postgame press confer-ence. Hey, Graham, we know you barely made it out of UF with a degree. It’s time to start being an adult and actually know what the hell you’re talking about.
Rounding out the tie for second 
is Gator Country’s Nick “movie 
buff” De La Torre, who was called 
out by Gators defensive line coach 
Chris Rumph (and basically the 
entire UF media corps) when he 
argued that Samuel L. Jackson 
was a one-role actor. That’s not 
gonna ﬂ  y here, Nick. And let’s 
face it: It’s not like you’re going 
to star in a major motion picture anytime soon.
In sixth place boasting a 3-5 
record is alligatorSports assistant editor Ethan “reeks of redneck” Bauer, who tries to hide his true self from the rest of the media by being the most dressed up person every time he goes into public. Embrace your inner Southerner, Ethan. In fact, wear jean shorts to the press box on Saturday. People will love you for being you.
Joining Ethan in sixth place 
is the Orlando Sentinel’s Edgar “anti-hair transplant” Thompson, 
who went on a well-documented 
rampage before a recent media 
availability about his disdain for 
guys who go out of their way to 
remedy their baldness. Yes, Ed-gar, we get that you’re able to cope with your receding hairline, but that doesn’t mean every bald guy wants to hide his shiny head under a mad hat.
And in dead-ass-last with a 
piss-poor record of 2-6 is Thomas “drive-by” Goldkamp, who took to Twitter to discuss how his at-tempts to park on UF’s campus this week have “turned into a creepy game of ‘stalk whoever’s 
walking’ in your car at 3 MPH.” 
We get it, Goldkamp. Parking 
at UF sucks. But if you spent as 
much time on your picks as you 
did trying to park your car, you 
might not be in the situation 
you’re in right now. 
To see our picks, visit alligator.
org/sports.
PICKS,  from pg 14
said. 
“We always laugh after one 
of the pins gets a kill because 
it’s you, the setter, the passers, 
but it’s also the middles who are 
holding a block for you. We say 
Rhamat should get half a kill for every kill we get, too.”
At this stage, Wise is looking 
for regular contributions from her 
entire roster. 
If the Gators can execute 
against Denver, Sunday’s contest 
against hosts LIU Brooklyn — a team that has lost 18 of 21 sets 
played — ought to serve as a ﬁ  nal tuneup before next Wednesday’s showdown at Florida State. 
Should Florida tweak its game 
to Wise’s desire, it’ll be in prime position for conference play.
“It’s not about where you are 
pre-conference,” she said, “it’s about playing your best volleyball at the end.
“Everything we do is big pic-
ture, long term.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 14UF faces Denver on Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Quincy Wilson (right) kneels next to teammate Marcus Maye during Florida's 24-7 win over UMass on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
16   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
3   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2016
NO, THIS IS PATRICK / OPINION
The last time 
Kentucky beat 
Florida in foot-
ball was 1986. 
No current 
UF players were even 
born yet — heck, Tim 
Tebow wasn’t even 
born until a year later. 
Since then, the 
Gators have won 
29-straight meetings with the 
Wildcats, the longest active win-
ning streak over a major oppo-
nent in an annual series. 
One of those victories was a 
73-7 beatdown in The Swamp in 
1994. 
Pair that and UK’s crushing 
44-35 defeat to Southern Miss in its opener last weekend and you 
might think Saturday’s show-
down between the two will re-
sult in a blowout. 
Wrong. Throw the streak out the win-
dow. 
Dump Kentucky’s bad loss 
out while you’re at it.
This will be a dogﬁ  ght, and 
the Gators can’t afford to over-look the ‘Cats. 
Kentucky has come danger-
ously close to spoiling the streak over the last couple contests. 
A year ago, Florida barely 
slipped past them in a 14-9 win 
where the defense surrendered 
just three ﬁ  eld goals. 
In 2014, UF squeaked out an 
unforgettable 36-30 triple-over-
time win in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Sta-
dium. 
And this year could be the year Kentucky ﬁ  nal-
ly ends the drought.
For one, UK has 
a quarterback and 
playmakers capable 
of explosive plays. 
Stanley “Boom” 
Williams and Jojo 
Kemp are a formi-
dable running-back 
duo that Florida will 
be tasked with containing. 
And the streak doesn’t seem 
to even be on Kentucky’s mind, as head coach Mark Stoops said 
on a teleconference Wednesday: 
“The past 30 years has nothing 
to do with us and this team.”
The good news for Gator fans 
is that UF is approaching this game the same way.
Players have reiterated that 
it’s just another game and 
they’re approaching it like any 
other. 
When asked if he was worried 
his team might take Kentucky 
lightly, UF coach Jim McElwain 
chuckled.
“Us let down?” he said.  “Great teams, the opponents 
don’t matter.”
Only time will tell if Florida is 
a great team. 
But Saturday is its ﬁ  rst real 
shot at proving that, and it starts 
with not overlooking the Wild-
cats.
 
Patrick Pinak is the online 
sports editor. You can contact 
him at ppinak@alligator.org and 
him on Twitter @Pinakk12.Forget the winning streak — UF can’t afford to overlook Kentucky
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Kentucky coach Mark Stoops watches his team from the sideline during a game against Louisiana-
Lafayette on Sept. 5, 2015. 
Patrick Pinak
twitter: @Pinakk12INSIDE
Cristian Garcia went to three different schools before ending up at Florida.  Now that he’s 
here, he’s hoping to make the most of his opportunity. 
ONLINE
For updates on Florida’s Week 2 game against Kentucky, head over to Alligator.org/sports.  
He might not see the ﬁ  eld 
every game, but linebacker 
Cristian Garcia is living out his dream.WALKING ONBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
In one hand, Cristina Garcia clutches her 
phone. In the other, her rosary. 
And as she sits behind her desk at a law 
ﬁ  rm in Ft. Lauderdale, waiting to hear if her 
son Cristian has made the University of Florida football team, all she can do is pray.
Cristian is a journeyman, having attended 
three universities in three semesters before landing at UF in Fall 2015.
Upon arriving, he immediately enrolled in 
the team’s walk-on tryout with more than 20 other hopefuls. 
UF took only two players from that group. 
Garcia, a 6-foot-1, 231-pound linebacker, was 
one of them. 
“It was surreal,” he said, “like something I’d 
been waiting for so long.”
Garcia had been waiting ever since he sat 
out a year to focus on academics, ever since 
he transferred to a new college without telling his family and ever since he was shunned by major college programs as an undersized de-
fensive end.
Through it all, he never lost faith that he’d 
achieve his goal of playing football at the high-
est level. 
And neither did his mother.About 300 miles south of Gainesville, the 
text message ﬁ  nally ﬂ  ashes across her screen. Her eyes swell. 
Her prayers have been answered. “I just burst into tears,” she said. “I was so 
happy for him. This is everything we wanted for him.”
•   •   •
With the district championship in jeopardy, 
it’s Garcia’s time. 
Angel Aparicio, the defensive line coach at 
Miami’s Belen Jesuit Preparatory school, calls on the then-sophomore. All Garcia has to do is clog the running lane of future University of 
Miami star and current Cleveland Brown Duke 
Johnson. 
He goes the wrong way. Johnson hits the hole, rockets past the sec-
ondary and arrives in the end zone. 
Aparicio turns to Garcia immediately.  “I went the wrong way coach,” he remem-
bers Garcia telling him, his expression like that 
of a dog who just knocked over a vase. “I’m 
really sorry.”
Luckily for Garcia, his team won the game 
and Garcia was able to hone his skills over the 
next year and a half. 
By the time he was a senior in 2013, he was 
receiving interest from some smaller schools 
and one larger university: Bowling Green State. 
According to Aparicio, BGSU recruiter Nick 
Monroe came to visit Garcia and was “all over him.” Monroe told Garcia he was going to go back to Ohio, show the other coaches Garcia’s 
tape and likely extend a scholarship offer, 
Aparicio said. 
But an offer never came. So when it was time to pick his school, there 
was only one hat on Garcia’s table: Malone University, a small school in Ohio. 
What stood out about Malone?“Nothing, really,” he said. “Just the fact that 
they offered me a full scholarship.”
Garcia’s mom said he wasn’t happy, and 
even though he played consistently as a fresh-
man, he transferred after one semester. 
“He was a great kid for us,” said Eric Hehm-
an, Garcia’s coach at Malone and current head 
coach of Olivet Nazarene University. “High-
character, hard worker. Just went too far from 
home.”
So he transferred to Florida Tech, a small 
school on Florida’s east coast, hoping to play 
football closer to home.
Things only got worse. 
After enduring spring football under a coaching regime he didn’t like, Garcia dropped out of Florida Tech after his ﬁ  rst week in Fall 2014 and came up with a new plan. 
He was going to play for the Gators. “I guess I just had a mental lapse at that mo-
ment,” he said. “It was honestly one of the best decisions of my life.”
•   •   •
Through his phone, Garcia could hear the 
distorted echoes of his mother’s furious voice. 
“I was pissed,” she said. “I was very, very 
upset.”
The single mother of two couldn’t under-
stand her son. 
She couldn’t understand why, one week 
into the semester, Garcia sold his furniture, terminated his lease and headed northwest to-ward Gainesville, already enrolled in Santa Fe 
College. 
Even more, she couldn’t understand why he 
did all of it without telling her.
“I thought it was a very irresponsible deci-
sion,” she said. “And then he wasn’t gonna 
play football for a year, and I got really scared because football is what makes Cristian tick.”
Getting into UF from Santa Fe wouldn’t be 
easy, nevermind making the team once he did. Garcia admits he’s always had a football-ﬁ  rst mentality. This was the ﬁ  rst time he had to fo-cus on academics.
“Football got me everywhere in life,” he 
said, “but that was one point where I just had to buckle down academically.”
Still, he found a way to get involved, becom-
ing a video assistant for the UF football team. His duties included ﬁ  lming practices and edit-ing the ﬁ  lm for players and coaches to watch. 
He balanced those duties and his grades 
with expert precision, and by the time he ap-plied to UF, he did so with a 4.0 GPA and con-nections on the football team. 
So it’s unsurprising that he was accept-
ed into the school, made it to the tryout and earned a spot on the team. 
His plan paid off. 
“He’s a guy that works hard,” teammate 
Marcell Harris said. “And his story, you know, 
coming from the lows that he came from just to actually get on this team, it’s amazing.”
•   •   •
The temptation is to stop him and ask why. Why wake up at 5 in the morning for work-
outs when you’ll see the ﬁ  eld ﬁ  ve times in a 
game, if you’re lucky?
Why get pummeled by players larger than 
you on a daily basis?
Why act as a stand-in tackling dummy so 
that other guys can take all the glory?
“A lot of the coaches,” Garcia said, “they 
don’t know your name, and they’ll treat you 
like dirt.”
So why do it?Because he said he loves playing football, 
and he wants to give coaches a reason to know his name. He’ll do whatever it takes to make 
that happen. 
“Wherever they need you, they say, ‘Hey, 
Garcia, go over here.’ That’s where you go,” he said. “And if they say ‘Jarrad Davis, hit him 
as hard as you can,’ you have to stand there and get hit.”
So far, he said he’s taken his share of hits. 
But over time, he’s also started to deliver them. And his teammates, including Davis, have tak-en notice. 
“The way he plays is not like other walk-
ons,” Davis said. “You can really tell that he’s very genuine and he really loves this game. I appreciate the effort and the passion he comes to practice with every single day, you know? I 
really love it.”
Davis isn’t the only one. 
“I’d have to say that I was one of the doubt-
ers at ﬁ  rst,” Aparicio, his high school coach, 
said. “... Because walk-ons get treated terrible.”
Since walking on, though, Garcia’s man-
aged to work his way up from no game action 
at the beginning of 2015 to playing in the Cit-
rus Bowl against Michigan at the end of last 
season. 
“He proved everybody wrong,” Aparicio 
said. 
And aside from playing meaningful min-
utes, that bowl game also marked another milestone in Garcia’s mind. 
For the ﬁ  rst time, he was sure coach Jim 
McElwain knew his name.
“He knows it now,” Garcia said. “I’ve made 
my way on the team now.”
•   •   •
It’s probable that Cristian Garcia will forever 
be known for something that isn’t football. There are dozens of articles about how Gar-
cia, while working security at 101 Cantina, a Gainesville bar, stopped a man from raping an unconscious woman. 
A tornado of media coverage followed, cul-
minating in an interview on Good Morning America. 
His mother remembers it well. “He said, ‘Mom I couldn’t help it,’” Cristina 
said. “‘It was like a knee-jerk reaction. He was hurting her and I just got him off.’”
But Garcia hopes his hero status isn’t the 
only thing people will remember him for.  
He has professional aspirations, hoping to 
one day play in the NFL or the Canadian Foot-ball League. 
And even though he’s not a scholarship 
player at UF, he’s slowly forced his coaches to give him playing time. He hasn’t given them a choice, according to teammate Joey Ivie. 
“He came in and busted his butt,” he said, 
“and he’s earned the right to play.”
While playing on special teams — which is 
where he spends most of his time right now, 
— probably won’t land him in the NFL, Garcia 
understands it’s an incremental process.
A year ago today, nobody expected him to 
be contributing to the Gators. 
The year before that, nobody expected him 
to play for the Gators at all. 
But he did, and he’s hoping to do more than 
that. 
“I was pretty much a dummy,” he said. “I 
mean, obviously getting hit every day and wak-ing up, you feel like you’re doing it for no rea-son. But eventually it paid off, and then grati-
tude ﬁ  nally set in.”
His mother, Cristina, also hopes her son 
sees the ﬁ  eld more and more over the next two 
years. And even if he doesn’t, she’s at least 
sure he’s where he wants to be.
“He’s living in a dream right now,” she 
said. “His future is just very optimistic, and as 
a mother I couldn’t be prouder and 
I couldn’t 
be happier for my son.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgINJURY
REPORT
OUT
OL Antonio Riles (Knee)
DB C.J. McWilliams (ACL)WR Dre Massey (Knee)
LB Daniel McMillian (Ankle)QUESTIONABLE
WR C.J. Worton (Ankle)DB Duke Dawson (Shoulder)PROBABLE
INJURY
REPORT
OUT
DB Darius West (Knee)
DB Blake McClain (Head)LB Josh Allen (Shoulder)WR Dorian Baker (Hamstring)WR Alexander Montgomery (Knee)QUESTIONABLE
FLORIDA defense vs. KENTUCKY offense
Jon T othCDrew BarkerQBStanley 
Williams or 
Jojo Kemp RB
Bryan 
Cox Jr.DE
Jalen T aborCB
Quincy
WilsonCB
Joey
IvieNT
Caleb
BrantleyDT
Daniel
McMillian 
or 
Jeremiah 
Moon SAM
Jarrad
DavisMIKE
Alex
AnzaloneWILL
Nick Washington 
or Marcell HarrisS
Marcus 
MayeSNick HaynesLG
Cole MosierLT
Ryan TimmonsWR
Ramsey 
MeyersRG
Kyle MeadowsRT
Jeff BadgetWRFLORIDA offense vs. KENTUCKY defense
Cam DillardC
Luke Del RioQB
Jordan Scarlett, Jordan 
Cronkrite or Mark ThompsonRBDavid
SharpeLTMartez 
IveyLG
Tyler
JordanRG
Fred
JohnsonRT
DeAndre
Goolsby or 
C’yontai LewisTECourtney 
LoveMIKE
Adrian 
MiddletonDT
Matt ElamNT
Courtney 
MigginsDE
Chris WestryCBJordan 
JonesWILL
Josh AllenSAMMike EdwardsS
Marcus 
McWilson S
Antonio
CallawayWR
C.J. WortonWRBrandon
PowellWRDenzil WareDE
Derrick BaityCB
Jordan
SheritDEC.J. ConradTEKICK OFF
Editor: Ian Cohen   Photo for Cover Illustration: Jordan McPherson
Alligator, Friday, September 9, 2016
THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED
Garrett 
Johnson WR
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Cristian Garcia (56) participates in Spring practice at the Sanders Practice Fields. While not listed 
on the linebacker depth chart, Garcia contributes on special teams and as a reserve linebacker. 
Garcia inds 
home at Florida