We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 118 TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
Florida football is looking to 
replace lost talent on defense
The Gators ranked No. 11 in scoring 
defense last season, pg. 13
County, experts share tips for mosquito 
season
There are 30 species of mosquitoes in Gainesville, pg. 5
Who runs the world? Girls
UF celebrates Women’s History Month, pg. 8What you need to know for voting
Check out polling locations, candidates, 
valid forms of identiﬁ  cation and more, pg. 3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Ellis lives each day to the fullest.
On Dec. 3, 2015, Ellis bought an en-
gagement ring for his girlfriend of four years. The next day, doctors told him his chest pains were actually stage three bulky 
Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a type of cancer that attacks his lymph nodes.
The main lump in the 22-year-old’s 
chest was the size of a softball. At stage three, the cancer had spread from his chest 
to his diaphragm.
Now, UF’s Heavener Leadership Chal-
lenge is trying to raise $10,000 for the UF business alumnus’ medical bills. The group, of which Ellis was a member, is holding events throughout the semester, with the next on March 23 at Texas Road-house on Archer Road.
“We’re a family, we’re a community,” 
said Dave Sullivan, a program advisor. “If something’s wrong with a member of your community, you do whatever you can to support them.”
      
In Spring 2014, Ellis joined the ﬁ  rst 
Heavener Leadership Challenge, a nine-week program that builds student’s leader-ship skills, Sullivan said. After completing 
the program, he remained involved with 
HLC’s alumni council.
With insurance, the family’s expenses 
have climbed to about $5,000, said Rhonda Ellis, Daniel’s mother. After he ﬁ  nishes the six months of chemotherapy this summer, Ellis will have 22 proton therapy treat-ments, which cost $160,000 without insur-ance.Coming together to help UF alumnus ﬁ  ght cancer
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
COFFEE ART
From left, Bret Larson, 33, Zane Bezesky, 25, and Jason Barnett, 24, judge latte art entries at Know 
Where Coffee on Monday night. First-, second- and third-place winners got prizes.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF senior was arrested early Monday 
morning after deputies said he shot and in-
jured a 57-year-old man.
At about 3:30 a.m., Angelo Ray Canevari, 
26, was covered in blood when he knocked 
on a woman’s door in the 8700 block of SW 
135th Place.
When Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce 
deputies arrived, Canevari told them he shot someone, ASO spokesman Sgt. Brandon Kut-ner said.Deputies detained Canevari and searched 
about 20 minutes for a victim before they 
found a house with its door open, Kutner said.
Inside, Lannie E. Geer 
lay unresponsive in a pool of blood near a handgun and bullets, Kutner said.
Investigators then got a 
search warrant and linked 
the blood found on Cane-vari to the crime scene.
Canevari refused to speak with authori-
ties without an attorney, and Geer, recov-ering from his injuries at UF Health Shands Hospital, is not stable enough to speak with authorities, Kutner said.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said Cane-
vari is a senior in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
As of press time, Kutner said investigators 
do not believe anyone witnessed the shoot-ing. They have spoken with residents and neighbors in hopes of ﬁ  nding any potential leads.
“They knew of each other. They were ac-
quaintances of some sort,” Kutner said, add-
ing that authorities are still unsure why the two were together.
“But it was obvious based on our inves-
tigation and the forensic evidence that Mr. 
Canevari was directly responsible for Mr. 
Geer’s injuries,” he said.
Deputies arrested Canevari on a charge 
of aggravated battery with a deadly weapon 
and transported him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains with-out bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org
  Police: UF student charged with shooting, injuring local manLOCAL
By Janiece Sebris
Alligator Contributing Writer
The sixth annual Gainesville 
Jewish Film Festival sold out during its ﬁ  rst showing Sunday.
The event runs through 
March 22 and takes place nearly every night at the Hippodrome State Theatre, situated at 25 SE Second Place.
The ﬁ  lms are free with a UF 
Gator 1 Card. Otherwise, tickets are $10 for one ﬁ  lm, $45 for ﬁ  ve 
ﬁ  lms or $85 for 10, according 
to the Jewish Council of North Central Florida’s website.
“I want people to be exposed 
to very, very well done ﬁ  lms that have something very inter-esting to say,” Jack Kugelmass, the director of UF’s Center for Jewish Studies, said.
Kugelmass said UF’s Center 
for Jewish Studies joined an ongoing partnership with the council three years ago.
The festival is different each 
year, he said, because its themes are always varied. And, aside from a Yiddish ﬁ  lm released in 1939, each ﬁ  lm is a recent re-lease.
The ﬁ  lms usually cost be-
tween $500 and $2,000 to play, Virginia Brissette Hirshik, the executive director of JCNCF, 
said.
Tickets are available online, 
and reservations for student 
tickets can be made by calling 352-371-3846, she said.
Hirshik said the festival is 
more of an effort to expand cul-tural awareness than a money-making machine.
“These stories that otherwise 
don’t get out there, we have a platform for sharing those,” she said.  Jewish Film Festival 
continues this week
Canevari
SEE ALUMNUS,  PAGE 4He was diagnosed in DecemberSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Apply Now for 2016-17 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.
ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as 
early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is today. Apply before Tuesday to ensure that the federal processor has time to ana-lyze and send the results of your FAFSA to the UF Office of Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. You must be 
an admitted student and have 
met the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assistance with completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. Please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 118
HIGH  84° LOW  59°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
When Jim Konish was a UF freshman liv-
ing in Hume Hall, the U.S. Congress passed 
an amendment to lower the voting age from 21 to 18.
“I voted when I was 18,” he said. “I was 
so disappointed in the people that got elected I did not vote for 21 years.”
When Konish was 42, he had his first child. 
He said his point of view changed when he became a father, and he got involved again.
“For the last 20 years, I have been active in 
city government,” he said.
Now, Konish hopes to win District 4’s 
council seat in the upcoming municipal elec-
tion. Konish continued to live in Gainesville 
after graduating from UF’s undergraduate pro-gram and law school. The 61-year-old works as a legal publisher and landlord.
“I think I am uniquely qualified,” Konish 
said. “There are no attorneys on the commis-sion.”
Konish thinks the City Commission could 
especially use his legal expertise when it 
comes to the controversial biomass contract 
that he feels has haunted Gainesville for the past five years.
“Because our infrastructure is being ne-
glected, we need to look at all failed political pet projects,” he said, citing GRU’s biomass contract as one.
For about two years, Konish has worked 
on drafting laws for the Florida Legislature re-garding GRU governance.
Debbie Martinez worked with Konish on 
the Concerned Citizen Co-alition.
“He continues to speak 
up for the $3.1 billion biomass contract,” the 
registered retired nurse 
said. “Mr. Jim Konish is highly qualified, highly in-
formed.”
Martinez feels the low-
income population of Gainesville is worst off because of the contract. She said Alachua has more than twice the poverty rate for the state.
“People like me can afford to get ripped 
off,” she said. “(Konish) defends the lower-income people.”
Konish believes that voters should con-
sider candidates they know won’t vote as part of a bloc.
“Not only am I not beholden to them, I 
have tried as hard as possible to shine a light on them,” he said.
Martinez said she hoped the election 
would reflect where the candidates stand on issues rather than partisan views.
“There is no purpose for partisanship in 
municipal elections,” she said.TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW FOR VOTING
Voters registered in Alachua County can vote today 
from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Because Florida has a closed 
primary, only those registered Republican or Democrat 
can vote for a presidential candidate. The city race is 
open to all registered Alachua voters.
Voters can only vote at their assigned precincts. 
Precincts are located on voters’ registration cards or 
can be found at votealachua.com/Voter-Information/
Precinct-Finder.
Valid forms of identification
• Florida driver’s license
• Florida ID card issued by the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
• U.S. passport
• Debit or credit card
• Military ID
• Student ID
• Retirement center ID
• Neighborhood association ID
• Public assistance ID (Social Security or other social services)President (Democrat):
• Hillary Clinton
• Bernie Sanders
• Martin O’Malley (no longer seeking presidency)
President (Republican):
• T ed Cruz
• John Kasich
• Marco Rubio
• Donald Trump
• Jeb Bush (no longer seeking presidency)
• Ben Carson (no longer seeking presidency)
• Chris Christie (no longer seeking presidency)
• Carly Fiorina (no longer seeking presidency)
• Jim Gilmore (no longer seeking presidency)
• Lindsey Graham (no longer seeking presidency)
• Mike Huckabee (no longer seeking presidency)
• Rand Paul (no longer seeking presidency)
• Rick Santorum (no longer seeking presidency)
Gainesville City Commission Mayor:
• Ed Braddy
• Lauren Poe
• Donald Shepherd Sr.
Gainesville City Commission District Four:
• Adrian Hayes-Santos
• Jim KonishWho’s on the ballot
On campus:
• Reitz Union
 655 Reitz Union Drive
• Phillips Center for the Performing Arts
 315 Hull Road
• Florida Museum of Natural History
 3215 Hull Road
Near UF’s campus:
• First Lutheran Church
 1801 NW Fifth Ave.
• Springhill Baptist Church    
 120 SE Williston Road    
• American Cancer Society Hope Lodge    
 2121 SW 16th St.    
• SFC Center for Innovation & Economic 
Development    
 530 W. University Ave.    
• Thelma Boltin Activity Center    
 516 NE Second Ave.   
• LifeSouth Community Blood Centers    
 4039 Newberry Road    
• Southwest United Methodist Church    
 2400 SW Williston Road    
• Doyle Conner Building    
 1911 SW 34th St.    
• Hilton Garden Inn    
 4075 SW 33rd Place    
• Paramount Plaza Hotel    
 2900 SW 13th St.Profile: Jim KonishMeet the 2016 District 4 candidates
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Adrian Hayes-Santos is the youngest can-
didate running in the Gainesville City Com-
mission District 4 elections.
Hayes-Santos, 31, said age won’t hold 
him back.
“I’ve been serving in city government 
since I was 18,” he said. “I served on the City Beautification Board and hosted an Ar-bor Day for the city. I’ve always been in-volved, so it’s not like I’m jumping out go-ing, ‘Here I am.’”
Hayes-Santos said he grew up in Alachua 
County, where he earned degrees from both Santa Fe College and UF.
“I’ve always had a passion for Gainesville 
— for who we are as a city and where we’re going,” he said.
He is now working director for UF’s Mas-
ter of Science in Entrepreneurship program.
After a failed campaign in 2015, the can-
didate said he is using lessons from the ex-perience to secure a seat in District 4 this year.
One week before this year’s election, Jim 
Konish filed a complaint against Hayes-San-tos alleging that he has not lived in District 4 long enough to run. 
“There is absolutely no truth in this at 
all,” Hayes-Santos said. “It’s a last-minute attempt at playing dirty politics.”
He said last year’s loss brought him even 
closer to Gainesville.
“I loved this city before, but when you 
get to know all these people, there really is 
an amazing community,” he said.
Hayes-Santos hopes to 
“make Gainesville a bet-ter place to live, work and play” by protecting neigh-borhoods, promoting 
an economically vibrant 
downtown and preserv-
ing the city’s natural en-
vironment.
Equal Internet access is also vital, he 
said. If left unresolved, the problem could become a generational problem in the de-cades to come.
“Access to knowledge is a huge equal-
izer,” he said. 
Bryan Eastman, the campaign’s senior 
adviser, said Hayes-Santos has a genuine connection with the community.
“Adrian is crazy about Gainesville,” he 
said. “He’s never considered leaving as long as I’ve known him.”
In the end, Hayes-Santos said he wants 
to help Gainesville preserve its uniqueness.
“We really have a great city, and I want 
everyone to be a part of that,” he said.Profile: Adrian Hayes-Santos
Editor’s Note: While all names appear on the ballot, 
not all candidates are still seeking the presidency.Polling locations What you need to vote
Lauren Johnson / Alligator StaffI VotedHayes-Santos
 Konish
BALLOTBy Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
A few blocks from downtown 
Gainesville sits a small, 675-square-
foot house bordered by a white pick-et fence.
The house, which is the first new 
home built in southeast Gainesville after more than 20 years, will be fea-tured on FYI network’s “Tiny House Nation” in the Fall.
Construction took place in Spring, 
and owners Lonie Carpenter and Danny Mckibbin became the first gay couple featured on the show.
The couple has been together for 
eight years and owns five businesses in Gainesville, including Mode Salon East, situated a block from their new home.
Carpenter said one of their goals 
was to do something positive for the gay community.
“We were on the cusp of that 
non-acceptance period, so we still 
have our baggage,” he said. “It just 
helped us tell the world who we are.”
Monday, the couple finished each 
other’s sentences and gestured to the home’s features, which are confiden-tial until the show airs.
“We wanted the aesthetic to 
match the Bed & Breakfast District,” said Carpenter.
For 14 days, teams built the home 
from a concrete base and filled it 
with amenities as film crews docu-
mented their work.
Mckibbin said Gainesville is their 
life — it’s where they built several businesses and a relationship.
“People forget this side of town, 
and if builders and investors would start putting money in this area, it would become fantastic,” he said.
Mary Alford, a principal engineer 
at Sustainable Design Group, said there is a difference between small homes and tiny houses.
Tiny houses, she said, are usually 
500 to 600 square feet, making them illegal under the city’s lawful defini-tion of a “livable space.”
Until the city changes some of its 
codes, people will continue to build illegal, unsafe houses, she said.
Mckibbin and Carpenter said they 
hope others are inspired to downsize in the future.
“A lot of people were shocked 
that the city let us do it, but urban sprawl is a problem,” Mckibbin said. “People have to keep going further 
and further from the center of a city 
to live.”
@MollyIDonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
The proton treatments use 
radiation to kill cancerous cells 
the chemotherapy might miss, 
she said.
Daniel Ellis said when visit-
ing Gainesville, he found thou-sands of dollars in hospital bills that were sent to the scholarship house he lived in during college. The bills came from UF Health Shands Hospital from when he 
was diagnosed.
“Having to go to the doctor so 
many times, it adds up quickly,” 
he said.
•   •   •
Rhonda Ellis uses her faith to 
come to terms with Ellis’ cancer.
She said she attends every 
chemotherapy treatment and chronicles the experience on her 
blog. A needle pumps drugs into 
her son’s heart’s main artery. As Ellis sits for hours, fighting nausea, Rhonda talks with other cancer patients who are alone.
“On the chemo floor, most 
people were alone,” she said.
She said she gives donated 
Chick-fil-A biscuits to patients while Ellis gets treatment. She said cancer has taught her com-passion.
“I see so many gifts that’s 
been in this whole process,” she said.
Through her blog, she encour-
ages people to talk about cancer.
“We’ve been intentional to let 
people into our lives,” she said. “We’ve created an environment here where he’s comfortable, he’s safe.”
•   •   •
Gabi Willis has liked Daniel 
Ellis since eighth grade.
The two grew up attending 
the same church. At 17, Daniel took her, her mom and his mom, Rhonda, to breakfast to ask Wil-lis on a date. The next day, he got her dad’s blessing.
A week after his first che-motherapy treatment, Ellis took Willis, 22, to their favorite res-
taurant, P.F. Chang’s. He made 
up a fake doctor’s appointment, said it was canceled and asked her to go on a walk.
His two sisters hid in the 
bushes to capture the moment 
he knelt down on one knee.
Rhonda Ellis said her son was 
adamant about marrying Willis, 
despite his cancer.
“He said, ‘Mom, if I’m going 
to die, I’m going to ask her to marry me,’” she said.Ellis’ mom and fiancée remain 
optimistic. Daniel said he’s half-
way through chemotherapy and 
is 80 to 90 percent cancer-free.
He said although his cancer is 
disappearing, the treatments are getting harder. Ellis said cancer has kept him from working and 
playing soccer with his friends.
“I’d like it just to all be over,” 
he said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgALUMNUS,  from pg 1He’s about halfway through chemotherapyTiny house defies odds 
in southeast Gainesville
Courtesy to the Alligator
Danny Mckibbin, a UF alumnus and co-owner of several Gainesville 
businesses, poses for a photo with his husband and business co-owner, Lonie Carpenter, at their house. Their home was the set of an episode of “Tiny House Nation, ” and they filmed for seven days.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Daniel Ellis, a 22-year-old UF alumnus who graduated with a de-gree in business administration, waits as a nurse sterilizes an IV port during his fifth round of chemotherapy. In early December, Ellis was diagnosed with Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
By Daniel Smithson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students and Gainesville residents can now 
register for a run to benefit those with autism.
Registration for Eastside High School’s annual 
Autism Awareness 5K opened last week. The club 
running it, Students Together for Autism Research, is hoping to raise $5,000 to support UF’s Center for Autism and Related Disabilities.
Online registration for the 5K is $15, while on-site 
registration will be $20.
The center’s assistant director, Catherine Zenko, 
said all proceeds from the 5K, which will take place at Boulware Springs Nature Park on April 30, will go 
to CARD. They are expecting 150 to 300 people to 
attend the event.
Zenko said the money raised will be used to re-
plenish supplies, such as lamination paper and vel-
cro, at CARD’s visual support lab. The lab makes im-ages that represent words and ideas for those with 
autism and related disabilities to take home. They can point to the pictures instead of speaking, she said.
CARD has also started making safety boxes that 
teach about fire safety and include information about preventing wandering and drowning, Zenko said.
The boxes also include door chimes and medical 
bracelets, in case those with autism and related dis-
abilities wander, she said.
“There’s been a big push to keep these kids safe,” 
Zenko said.
Karly Johnson, a UF communication sciences and 
disorders junior, said she is participating in the 5K 
because a family member has autism.
“I have a family member on the autism spectrum 
and have seen the struggles he and his family have gone through,” the 20-year-old said. “CARD helps 
people with disabilities, so I want to help them.”5K benefits locals with autismLOCALTHE COMPETITION WILL 
BE HELD IN JUNE.
By Madeleine Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF group will be heading 
to Texas after its concrete canoe 
took first place last weekend.
UF’s American Society of Civil 
Engineers Concrete Canoe team, which is made up of about 40 UF students, competed at the Univer-sity of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, on Saturday and Sun-day at the ASCE Southeast Re-gional Conference.
The 22-foot canoe cost $1,700 
to build, excluding oars to row, said Teresa Lewis, a UF civil en-gineering senior and captain of the concrete canoe team. It took about three months to build.
The team’s win earned them a 
spot at the national competition in Texas this June, the 22-year-old said. UF will compete against teams from across the world, in-cluding Canada, Puerto Rico and China.
Lewis said the concrete canoe 
contest is always competitive.
“It’s a team project, and if 
you’re not always in communica-
tion with each other and always 
on the same page, it just won’t 
happen,” she said. “I have a fan-tastic team.”
Mayreliz Crespo-Seda, a UF 
civil engineering junior and mem-ber of the concrete canoe team, said she started working on a practice canoe in August. The team finished the practice model in December and started building for the competition in January.
The team tests different types 
of concrete to see which ones float, Crespo-Seda said. After they find one that does, canoe con-struction begins.
Captains of the team spend 30 
or more hours a week on the ca-noe, the 20-year-old said.
“It’s hard work, but it’s a lot of 
fun, and it’s amazing when you see them race,” Crespo-Seda said.TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Members of the UF Concrete Canoe team submerge their canoe, the Category 6, to test its buoyancy under water. The canoe has a minimum capacity of two people and a maximum capacity of four people.
UF group wins canoe competition, will head to nationalsEmma Green / Alligator Staff
WHAT THE FOG?
A man walks down Southwest 23rd Street at 8 a.m. on Monday morning, braving the fog and cooler temperatures. The wet morning foreshadows the rain that is forecast to visit Gainesville later this week on Thursday.
THERE ARE 30 MOSQUITO 
SPECIES IN GAINESVILLE.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mosquito season may be coming 
sooner than expected.
With the presence of high tem-
peratures in the winter and the emer-
gence of an early spring, mosquitoes 
will likely breed prematurely, said 
Anthony Dennis, the environmental health director for the Florida Depart-ment of Health in Alachua County.  
The county currently monitors 
more than 30 species of mosquitoes, he said. With less time to prepare residents, the county recently shared tips to avoid attracting mosquitoes.
As a first line of defense, residents 
should cover all sources of open wa-ter around their homes, according to the release.
“It only takes a cap full of water 
to breed a large number of mosqui-toes,” Dennis said.The release also urged residents 
to cover windows and porches with screens and to use insect repellent approved by the Environmental Pro-tection Agency.
Dennis said Alachua County 
makes regular efforts to combat the mosquito population.
“The county spends significant 
funds on surveillance systems for mosquito activity,” Dennis said.
The surveillance system, he said, 
will soon include the use of sentinel chickens, which should help officials 
track mosquitoes and the diseases 
they may carry.
Jackson Sears, an 18-year-old UF 
sports management freshman, said mosquitoes affect one of his favorite hobbies.
“I like to golf during the summer, 
which keeps me outside a lot,” he said.
Sears said mosquitoes have not 
posed a large problem to him in the past.
“I’m glad the city is on top of it,” 
he said.County, experts share 
tips for mosquito season
By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Education was awarded 
$400,000 to help elementary students learn to 
read.
The college earned the money  from the 
state to update Winning Reading Boost, a pro-
gram founded in the 1980s that helps third-, 
fourth- and fifth-graders with reading through music.Students in the program have been found 
to remember more information when rap, con-temporary, jazz and other types of music are used, said Shaunté Duggins, an early literacy 
and teacher development consultant for the 
Lastinger Center. The songs teach students how to say the words they will read.
The College of Education’s Lastinger Cen-
ter for Learning helped pilot the program last Fall for 28 days at an elementary school in St. Petersburg, Florida, Duggins said. It expanded the program to Melrose Elementary in St. Pe-tersburg in January. Duggins said the college will update the program, though they haven’t determined what will be changed.
“We would like to go to other schools and 
offer this program to other struggling third-, fourth- and fifth-grade students,” she said.
This 90-day program teaches students to 
read through music, she said.
“One of the things we know about kids is 
that if they don’t catch up in the early grades, then there’s little chance of them ever catching up,” said Holly Lane, an associate professor of special education.
Dianne Fix, a retired elementary school 
teacher, said her students in the program love the program because of the music.
“They are learning it by singing it and they 
don’t realize that’s what’s happening,” she said. “Then they are able to apply those skills when they are reading the words in context and spelling the words.” College of Education teaches students to read with music CAMPUSThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnEndorsements: 
Gainesville city 
elections
It’s the ﬁ  ght of the century: Gainesville city elections, in 
which residents will vote for candidates for mayor and District 4 city commissioner.
In the mayoral race, though Donald Shepherd Sr. is 
still running, most eyes are on either former City Com-
missioner Lauren Poe or current Mayor Ed Braddy. It’s Poe vs. Braddy, old vs. new, the Poe boys vs. the Braddy bunch. In the city commissioner race, it’s Adrian Hayes-Santos — handsome UF alumnus and youth sports coach and counselor — against Jim Konish — attorney, personally ﬁ  nanced and outspoken resident.
Kidding aside, we at the Alligator would like to put forth 
our ofﬁ  cial endorsements. We endorse Lauren Poe for mayor and Adrian Hayes-Santos for city commissioner.
While Braddy has undeniably made considerable accom-
plishments in his three years as mayor — such as our nation’s ﬁ  rst-ever Uber program for seniors — his afﬁ  liations with for-mer police ofﬁ  cer and Gator Lodge president Jeffrey McAd-ams, who stole $56,000 of the police union’s funds to spend on meals, hotel visits and strip club attendances, is a serious cause of concern for us. Braddy told our reporters such afﬁ  li-ations were just “a couple of dumb things I did three years ago,” but we feel Braddy owes it to the Gainesville commu-
nity to substantially justify why we should re-elect him in 
spite of his record.
Whereas Braddy’s platform largely focuses on his previous 
term’s successes, Poe’s platform addresses issues affecting all Gainesville residents — rich, poor, young and old alike. Both candidates pledge for lower GRU rates, but we feel Poe will take the more reasoned approach. We also heed an edito-rial by the Ocala Star-Banner, which endorses Poe for mayor and highlights Braddy’s propensity to inaccurately portray 
his role in lowering GRU rates to the beneﬁ  t of all residents.
As for the city commissioner race, we question Konish’s 
candidacy for two main reasons. One, he claims to have en-
tered the race only to deny Hayes-Santos an unopposed vic-tory, and two, a number of residents have voiced concern over Konish’s shady business practices and organized a boy-cott via Craigslist against his candidacy. We do, however, applaud Konish’s energy as a public commentator at City Commission meetings. As for Hayes-Santos, aside from the 
many reasons to support him based on his platform, his sup-
port base is impressive enough, with endorsements ranging from the Human Rights Council of North Central Florida to Gainesville Professional Fireﬁ  ghters.
At the end of the day, no mayor or city commissioner alone 
can magically ﬁ  x all of Gainesville’s problems. To elect a can-didate based on promises of immediate restructuring alone is naive, which is why the Gainesville community needs to elect ofﬁ  cials who have residents’ best interests in mind, sound 
judgment at heart and fair ideas of progress.
We at the Alligator feel Poe and Hayes-Santos best em-
body the leadership our city needs and can better facilitate 
a conducive, progressive environment for all residents alike. 
So we encourage you to vote for these two before polls 
close at 7 p.m. Even if you’re vehemently opposed to these candidates, still get out and vote. More than anything, we as a community need a strong voter turnout. Have your voice heard, for you’d be surprised how many don’t share this 
same privilege.To disparage bad wind is really dis-gust-ing 
Whoa. Where am I? Just a minute 
ago, I was walking down Univer-sity Avenue, but before I knew it, I blacked out and woke up in the opinions section of the Alligator.
That was a lie. I’m not “in” the Alligator. 
That’d be silly. The only entities who “live” in the Alligator are Joey and Bert of “Lifeless Joey.” That’s a good comic. I heard the writer is incredibly attractive and incredibly single.
I’m new to the whole column-writing thing. It’s pretty 
exciting stuff. I’m excited. Are you? You don’t have to be. I don’t mind. Really, I don’t. Really. It’s ﬁ  ne.
So, I get this is the opinions page; every column has to 
have an opinion in it — apparently. But, I’d like to treat this as a discussion. Before I start ﬂ  aunting my knowl-edge and expertise like a rabid dog, understand, I’m here to provoke thought. 
I’m ﬁ  guring out comedy too; I don’t claim to know 
what I’m talking about. No one knows what they’re talk-ing about in this section. Have you read some of these columns? 
Regardless, I’m writing to explore comedy and its im-
plications, limitations and transubstantiations. The only thing I want to convince you of is that comedy is impor-tant, powerful and misrepresented. Let’s roll.
Fart jokes. Don’t you despise them? They’re disgust-
ing. Disturbing. They remind us of our humanity and in-ability to control our most basic instincts, no matter how hard we try to enforce societal norms to suppress them.
Why do we hate fart jokes? Like, actually. Why? Well, 
ﬁ  rstly, why are farts funny in the ﬁ  rst place? For one, they make an interesting sound. It’s a subversion of ex-pectation when a noise comes from an oriﬁ  ce that isn’t a mouth. To many, subversion — or irony — is the root of comedy. Secondly, a fart signals impending misery. Oth-ers consider misery to be the root of comedy. Regardless, farts are funny.
But, why do we hate them? I think it comes 
down to children. Here’s my theory: Children aren’t very good at being funny. Comedy’s an art that takes practice. It also takes a well-de-veloped mind, and young children aren’t there yet cognitively. They lack a full understanding of comic timing and pacing. They just fart and laugh. Parents and teachers tell children not to joke about farts because they don’t want 
children farting all over the place.
This column is getting congested, so I started a new 
paragraph. Ah. That’s better.
So, kids are told fart jokes aren’t funny because chil-
dren can’t pull them off and adults don’t want to deal with incessant farting. That’s ﬁ  ne. Here’s the problem: When children get older, we don’t reintroduce fart jokes as a valid form of comedy. So, despite the comedic po-tential, adults live in a culture in which fart jokes are deemed immature and only made by children.
Children love comedy, but they’re bad at it. They’ll 
learn. They’ll practice. But, we don’t remind children to revisit those jokes. We have to be able to say, “Fart jokes are ﬁ  ne! You were just doing them incorrectly!”
So, why does all this matter? Why’d I spend this 
whole column defending fart jokes? Well, comedy’s a big deal. Comedy can be a whole bunch of things, but most importantly it can be a learning tool.
 Comedy can teach you a lot about yourself because 
laughter is an impulse, not an active response. Your reac-tion to comedy is an accurate reﬂ  ection of the way you perceive the world. When we stiﬂ  e what we can joke about, we lose a window into ourselves. That sounds awfully hippie-dippy, but you get the gist.
Comedy matters. Good talk.Michael Smith is an incredibly single UF mechanical 
engineering sophomore. His column appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
History teaches us les-
sons about how people organized to change 
the world — lessons in 
victories and lessons in 
failures. The women’s liberation movement made innumerable 
gains for women, from being 
able to wear pants on campus and having credit in our own names to having access to birth control in marriage. But the point isn’t just to learn 
about history; it’s to use that knowledge 
to change — and make — history. We can learn from the victories of previous movements, adopt their techniques and 
improve them if necessary. We can study 
our predecessors’ failures, analyze them and make sure not to repeat them.
For example, the civil rights movement 
of the 1950s and ‘60s taught the women 
who founded the women’s liberation 
movement the powerful tool of conscious-ness-raising (CR). They learned to tell the truth about their personal lives and ana-
lyze those testimonies to develop theories 
about the root of women’s oppression and strategies for solutions, because oppressed people are the real experts on their own experiences. CR groups — where women 
spoke honestly about pregnancy scares 
and sex, the pressure to be beautiful, young and thin, sexism at work and all kinds of things women didn’t really talk 
about in a political context in 1968 — 
spread rapidly across the country. As Car-ol Hanisch, a founding member of New York Radical Women, says, “The personal is political.” CR also brings us together, 
eliminating the isolation that enables male 
authority and supremacy. We share our experiences, pains, sufferings and joys and work together to develop the theories 
and strategies that make us a strong, unit-
ed movement.
But history is more than a toolbox. It is 
also a microphone, a guide to our voice; it is a soapbox built with the root of effective 
discourse and a chorus made of the echoes 
of our predecessors. The rich history of the women’s liberation move-ment gives us an encyclopedic guide on how our movement or-
ganized, grew and built a voice. 
It is a record of language and discourse that we need to study in order to avoid reinventing the 
wheel. By studying the history 
of our movement, we can use the voices of our predecessors 
as the microphones into which we speak and the shoulders on which we stand as 
we shout our battle cry.
Unfortunately, male supremacy will 
not be defeated easily. As Kathie Sara-child, a founding member of the early 
women’s liberation group Redstockings, points out, those in charge have worked to distort our history and strip us naked 
of all our tools. It is not enough to vote if 
we want to build on the work of the gen-erations of activists who have come be-fore us. We must actively learn and study our own history if we want to make his-
tory. Movies like “She’s Beautiful When 
She’s Angry” teach us about our history 
and leave us with questions we have yet 
to answer. Join National Women’s Libera-tion for a screening and discussion of the ﬁ  lm today at The Wooly, situated at 20 N. Main Street. Doors open at 6:30 p.m., and 
the ﬁ  lm starts at 7 p.m.
Join our ﬁ  ght as we push against male 
supremacy and advocate for women’s free-
dom in all aspects of our lives. We cannot 
carry a movement if we do not know its 
past, so come study our roots with us and learn how we can build and grow an effec-tive movement today.
Emily Calvin is a member of the 
National Women’s Liberation Steering Committee.The importance of women’s history 
in building the feminist movementGuest column
Whether you like it or not, we live in a cultural climate 
dominated by the 
anti-hero. Not to be 
confused with a full-blown vil-lain, an anti-hero by deﬁ  nition 
lacks the upright moral char-
acter and endearing qualities of the traditional heroes we’ve come to know so well in main-stream culture. This quite often takes the 
form of questionable means to an end, an 
unpredictable narrative trajectory and un-savory moral ﬂ  aws.
Realistically, that textbook deﬁ  nition 
was unnecessary, and a host of charac-ters came to mind immediately after you read that ﬁ  rst sentence. Whether it was Don Draper, Cersei Lannister, Nucky Thompson, Dexter Morgan, Walter White, 
Frank Underwood or some other troubled 
protagonist, it’s obvious these characters have a hold over us that traditional heroes simply can’t match. 
It’s precisely this fascination that re-
sults in a television market saturated with morally ambiguous characters, so where does the obsession come from?
Psychologists, journalists and tele-
vision lovers alike have come up with countless theories to explain this cultur-ally relevant phenomenon. If you want to take the Freudian approach with Travis 
Langley of Wired, it could be interpreted 
as a form of wish fulﬁ  llment in which we experience pleasure through the visualiza-tion of morally abhorrent behavior we se-cretly wish to engage in. 
I ﬁ  nd this to be the least convincing 
explanation, but that’s mostly due to my general distaste toward psychoanalysis as a whole.
Another theory points to our cultur-
ally-induced mass-desensitization as the main culprit. This argument hinges on the premise that as society becomes in-creasingly anesthetized to depictions of 
violence, we are simultaneously drawn to 
darker characters and plot lines. 
This perspective also seems to fall ﬂ  at, 
as the most captivating element of the 
anti-hero story isn’t the carnage but the characters’ humanistic nuances.
Child and adolescent psy-
chiatrist H. Eric Bender taps into this fascination with moral com-
plexity and argues the rise of the anti-hero can be largely attribut-ed to our own ﬂ  awed behavior. 
We’re unsurprisingly drawn to 
characters that reﬂ  ect our own uncertainty and imperfection, as this casts them in a much more 
authentic light. 
Growing up forces us to confront an in-
creasing amount of ethical ambiguity as we realize life is anything but black and white. As a result, the characters that em-
body moral perfectionism begin to ring 
untrue. Brokenness becomes synonymous with authenticity.
Often, the anti-hero becomes incom-
patible with societal expectations and 
regulations, resulting in the compelling 
suspense that fuels our incessant binge sessions. 
Yet at the heart of our fascination is the 
anti-hero’s ability to endear him or herself through displays of humanity in shared circumstances. Walter White is faced with his wavering ﬁ  nancial stability and deteri-orating health. Cersei Lannister’s children 
are taken from her through murder and ar-
ranged marriages. Often these characters must be broken and brought to their low-est points in order to gain our sympathy, 
yet this isn’t a matter of redemptive jus-
tice. It’s about the glimpse of virtue that fosters a connection between viewer and character.
Overall, anti-heroes serve as a reﬂ  ec-
tion of our own realities. They’re com-plex. They’re constantly evolving. They’re simultaneously monstrous and human. Their unpredictable journeys fuel our dis-
appointment, fear and empathy. 
Anti-heroes dominate modern culture 
not because of our suppressed wishes or 
numb psyches, but our desire for truth. Absolutist parables have no place in our 
fragmented world. 
It’s time to embrace the ambiguous and 
authentic.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Why are we fascinated by anti-heroes?Column
Emily Calvin
Speaking Out
“W e can learn from 
the victories of 
previous movements.”
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Ashley Brooks is selling cup-
cakes to ﬁ  ght childhood cancer.
The UF economics junior is 
raising money for Cookies for 
Kids’ Cancer, a nonproﬁ  t that supports children’s cancer re-search through the sale of baked 
goods. Brooks said she wants to 
raise $500 each month.
She founded Ashley’s Cup-
cakes after reading about Cook-ies for Kids’ Cancer on the back of a King Arthur ﬂ  our bag, the 20-year-old said.
Brooks, who is on a pre-med 
track, said she wanted to help the charity.
“I’ve had family members who 
have been affected by cancer, so cancer research is close to my 
heart,” she said.
Brooks started planning the 
cupcake sale at the beginning of 
the semester. She said she tested 
recipes, tried different ingredients and registered herself with the 
charity.
“It’s been a process, but I’ve 
got it to now where I can start 
selling,” she said.
Brooks started advertising her 
cupcakes on Facebook this week 
and said she hopes to join the Union Street Farmer’s Market.
“My goal this week is to reach 
more people,” she said.
Nichole Hyde, Brooks’ room-
mate, said she helps keep track of 
ﬁ  nances.“I am just in charge of keep-
ing track of the money as it comes 
in,” the UF accounting senior said.
Brooks is selling her cupcakes 
for $1.50 each, with $1 of that go-ing to charity.
“I make the cupcakes com-
pletely from scratch,” she said. “I 
try to ﬁ  nd the best-quality ingre-
dients I can.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org Buy a cupcake, help donate to childhood cancer research
CUPCAKE FLAVORS
This week:
 Chocolate fudge with 
cookie-dough buttercream
 Funfetti
Next week:
 Chocolate with molten Nutella center and hazelnut frosting
 Cherry white chocolate
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
“We’re on our way”: UF’s Women’s Stu-
dent Association is celebrating women’s his-
tory month with a focus on the past while 
looking to the future.
WSA is holding 13 events for the month, 
which are free and open to the public. The 
organization has spent about $12,000 on the 
events, which are sponsored by Student Gov-
ernment. 
“It (the theme) means that we have come 
so far in celebrating strong women, but there is so much more to do,” said Merin Thomas, a UF freshman.
WSA kicked off the month with the Wom-en’s History Month Opening Ceremony on March 9 where Andi Zeisler, a co-founder of 
Bitch Media, spoke at the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom.
“Our goal is not just women speciﬁ  cally 
but all people,” Thomas said. “Regardless of any circumstance, we want to include every-
one.”
The 18-year-old said she is excited to at-
tend the “Masculine Mystique” event March 
24 in Pugh Hall. At the event, men will dis-
cuss women’s issues from their point of view.
“The panel is going to talk about their 
views on women and feminism,” she said. 
“There will be a broad spectrum on the pan-el.”
This is the ﬁ  fth year WSA has been on campus, said Lillian Rozsa, a 20-year-old UF political science and women’s studies sopho-
more.
“We encourage a lot of discussion,” said 
Rozsa, the vice president of WSA. “Women’s 
History Month is about sharing a lot of diverse experiences.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgWho runs the world? Girls
UF celebrates Women’s History MonthCAMPUS
SOME EVENTS FOR THE MONTH
Wednesday
 “Women Across Cultures” at Ustler 
Hall, 6 p.m.
Friday
 “Feminist Fun Friday” on Plaza of the Americas, 10 a.m.
Saturday
 “Remembering Our Sisters” on Turlington Plaza
March 22
 “Speed Date a Feminist” at Ustler 
Hall, 6:30 p.m.
March 24
 “Masculine Mystique” at Pugh Hall, 
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.“Our goal is not just women speciically 
but all people. Regardless of any 
circumstance, we want to include 
everyone.”
Merin Thomas
UF freshman
Rachel Hart, left, a 22-year-old UF advertising senior, and Erica Runyon, a 20-year-old from Jacksonville, Florida, participate in Know Where Coffee’s one-year anniversary latte art competition on Monday night.Paint a latte
Photos by Isabel Bonnet
Alligator Staff Photographer
Know Where Coffee celebrated its one-year anniversary with its 
first-ever latte art competition, attended by about 40 people.TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
#BLACKLIVESMATTER
Alicia Garza greets a crowd of about 180 students and faculty 
at the University Auditorium during Pride Awareness Month’s opening ceremony on Monday. Garza, alongside Opal T ometi and Patrisse Cullors, is attributed with starting the “#Black-LivesMatter” movement on Twitter.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville woman was arrest-
ed Sunday morning after police said 
she drove drunk in a car that was missing two tires.
At about 8:30 a.m., Crystal Mon-
ica Sallett, 26, drove on the rims of 
her front tires in the 1200 block of 
W. University Ave; according to a police report.
Police tried to pull Sallett over, 
but she continued to drive for anoth-er minute before stopping, according to the report.
When approached by police, Sal-
lett had difficulty speaking and open-ing her eyes, according to the report.
Sallett said she may have drunk 
about four or five shots too many the night before, which may still 
have been affect-
ing her, according 
to the report.
She did not 
explain why her car was missing its two front tires, according to the report.
Police noted 
the smell of alcohol on Sallett’s breath, and when they conducted field sobriety exercises, she strug-gled to keep her balance, according to the report.
In a breathalyzer test, police re-
corded Sallett’s blood-alcohol levels at .273, more than three times the legal limit, according to the report.
Since 2008, Sallett has received 
one citation for speeding and an-other for violating the terms of a learner’s driver’s license, according to Alachua County court records.  
Police arrested Sallett for DUI and 
took her to the Alachua County Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $10,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgGPD: Woman missing tires, gets DUITHE RIVERFEST WILL BE 
HELD APRIL 17.
By Sydney Denninger
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tickets to an April fundraiser for the Santa Fe River 
watershed recently became available online.
The sixth annual Santa Fe RiverFest will be held 
April 17 from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Rum 138, a canoe and kayak rental service situated at 2070 SW County Road 
138 in Fort White, Florida.  
The annual event is hosted by Our Santa Fe River, 
Inc., a Florida nonprofit concerned with the safety and 
quality of the river area, including its springs and un-derlying aquifer, President Pam Smith said.
The organization is currently selling tickets on its 
website for $5, and they also will be available at the event for $7. Children under the age of 12 get in for free, according to a press release.
“By printing more pamphlets, speaking on NPR, fil-ing legal motions, creating a Monthly Aquifer Report and more, we are able to bring recognition to the river and to protecting the water and land,” Smith said.
She said this year’s event features music by Terra-
plane Rhythm & Blues, a new kids corner and a song-writing contest, along with more food and a larger si-
lent action than last year’s.
Contestants who submitted entry forms and MP3 
files by March 1 will have their songs judged for qual-
ity, execution and innovation, policy director Merrillee Malwitz-Jipson said.  
She said the winner will receive a $300 cash prize.“Our organization is hoping the cash prize will be 
attractive to the contestants,” she said.
Threats such as fracking, mining and concentrat-
ed animal feeding are limiting the flow of connected springs — including Ginnie Springs and Blue Spring State Park — by 50 percent, Smith said.
The money, she said, will go toward education, ad-
vocacy and stewardship.
“We need young people to get involved,” she said.Organization raises funds to 
protect Santa Fe River watershed
Sallett
Pi(gging) out for Pi Day
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Business administration seniors Ana Soto, 23, (left) and Juliana Bermudez, 21, (right) season their 
$3.14 cheese pizzas at Dough Religion on Monday evening to celebrate Pi Day. Bermudez explained the pair chose to go to that particular pizza shop because it is conveniently in front of Heavener Hall, the business school.Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Members of the English Language Institute eat pizza from Dough Religion by the Gator statue by the University Auditorium in cel-ebration of Pi Day on Monday.TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-52/2 Las Pampas TOWNHOME for sale. Bedroom on the first floor has tile flooring with access via sliding doors to a patio that is fenced for privacy. 2nd bedroom which is carpeted is located upstairs. 77k Call Theresa 407-462-8695    3-15-16-5-5
For Sale: Condo 1BR/1BA - 705sq.ft. Bike to UF or ride bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018     3-21-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1297 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
 
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Help disabled artist setup & break down booth at Santa Fe College Art Festival: Disabled artist needs help with booth; need 3 hrs Fri afternoon April 1st & 3 hrs Sun (5 to 8) April 3rd. $20/hr for the 6 hrs. Help carry dis-play & tent materials from truck to site, help set up booth, then help break down display, load truck. Call Larry Hering 954 258 4926 or email lhering216@yahoo.com    3-17-16-3-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/21-3/24 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      3-21-5-20
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Behind four goals from Nicole 
Graziano, Florida lacrosse defeated T owson 15-7 Monday night.Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Faedo named SEC Pitcher of the Week
UF sophomore Alex Faedo was named the Southeastern Conference Pitch-
er of the Week on Monday. The right-hander tossed 8.1 innings and struck out 13 batters, both career highs, in UF's 3-1 win over Harvard  on Saturday.By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Florida coach Mike White didn’t 
watch Sunday night’s NCAA Tour-
nament selection show.
There was little to no hope that 
the Gators (19-14) would earn a spot in the Big Dance — proving true in Sunday night’s selection of 
the tournament bracket. Later that 
night, Florida received its postsea-son designation: a No. 2 seed in the National Invitation Tourna-ment.
White, who has gone to the 
NIT each of the last three seasons as head coach of Louisiana Tech, said Monday morning that he 
has encouraged his team to take 
the NIT seriously and to prepare and focus on tonight’s first-round game just as it would any other.
"I’m not going to overcompli-
cate it. I just want to win," White said. 
"And I told these guys, as a 
competitor, you have another game in front of you. And whoev-er it’s gonna be, this was the con-servation yesterday, I would hope 
that you just want to win. You lost 
your last game."
The Gators play No. 7-seed 
North Florida (22-11) tonight at 9 in Jacksonville. The game is on 
the Ospreys’ home court due to 
the O’Connell Center construction.
And with home court advan-
tage, UNF is not an opponent to 
overlook. The Ospreys lead the 
nation in made three-pointers this season with 402 and have five players who average double-figure scoring, led by Dallas Moore, who 
scores 19.7 points per game.
Florida may be without center 
John Egbunu due to a torn liga-
ment in his right thumb. Egbunu Gators embracing NIT opportunity, face UNF tonight
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
The last time Florida played a midweek 
game, coach Kevin O’Sullivan was not 
happy.
Even though the Gators beat UNF 5-4 
in Gainesville, O’Sullivan ripped into his team after the game. 
He wasn’t pleased with the at-bats the 
team had toward the end of the game.
His pep talk might’ve woken a sleeping 
giant because the Gators’ offense came to life against Harvard, scoring 28 runs in a three-game series sweep of the Crimson.
But now No. 1 Florida (17-1) faces a 
much more difficult task. 
Rival Florida State comes into 
Gainesville tonight at 7 for the first of three matchups between the two teams this season.
"There’s a lotta emphasis on that game, 
for both schools," O’Sullivan said. 
"They are obviously going to come in 
here ready to play and we will, too. I’m sure it’ll be a great game, I’m sure it’ll be a great crowd and it’s a good game."
The Gators lost two of three against the 
Seminoles during the 2015 regular season, but won the lone game in Gainesville 14-8.Florida will be sending Dane Dunning 
to the mound, who is coming off his best start of the season against the Ospreys last Tuesday. 
While he didn’t factor into the game’s 
decision, he struck out 10 batters over six innings while allowing two earned runs.
Dunning will have to deal with one of 
the top lineups in the country. 
No. 13 FSU (13-3) is ninth in the nation 
with a .332 batting average. 
John Sansone paces the Seminoles with 
a .469 clip, tied for eighth nationally.
"FSU will be fun," Florida pitcher Alex 
Faedo said. 
"They’ll be a lot of people here and we 
love playing them. They’re really good."
The Seminoles will have a tough task 
of their own in dealing with Florida’s of-fense.
The Gators were lost at the plate at 
times during the past two weeks, tak-ing big swings and not producing, which irked O’Sullivan.
It was fixed against Harvard after 
O’Sullivan watched tape with hitters from the middle of the Gators’ lineup, including first baseman Peter Alonso and outfielders Jeremy Vasquez and Nelson Maldonado. 
Florida is looking to keep up that mo-UF hosts rival FSU tonight
THE GATORS RANKED NO. 11 
IN SCORING DEFENSE LAST 
SEASON.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
It’s no secret that Florida was carried by its 
defense last season.
Aside from a late-season collapse during 
which the Gators allowed an average of 32.3 points per game over their last three, Florida’s defense bailed out its anemic offense time af-ter time.
The Gators ranked 11th in scoring defense, 
18th in third down conversion defense, 15th in sacks per game and eighth in total defense. They tied for 100th, 94th, 121st and 112th in the corresponding offensive categories. And while UF is hoping to find answers to improve the offense, the defense expects to pick up where it left off.
"There’s a high expectation in that room, 
high expectation with that group," said Geoff Collins, UF’s second-year defensive coordina-tor.
But those high expectations start with re-
placing what was lost. And Florida lost a lot.Cornerback Vernon Hargreaves is a sure-
fire first round NFL Draft pick, and defensive 
lineman Jonathan Bullard could join him. An-
tonio Morrison anchored the defense at mid-
dle linebacker, Keanu Neal was an enforcer in 
the secondary and Alex McCalister’s 6.5 sacks 
were tied with Bullard for the team lead.
Collins knows he has a lot to replace, and 
he’s made sure to let his team know, too.
"The first or second meeting of the offsea-
son, what we do is we put up a production 
sheet of what we lost at each position," he said. "Here’s what we’re gonna miss. Here’s stats that are gonna come off the board right now. And who’s gonna step up? Is it gonna be one, is it gonna be multiple? Either way it’s fine, but somebody’s gotta fill that void for us, and they know that and they collectively work to make up for that."
One thing that could help Florida main-
tain its solid defense is continuity among its coaching staff. Collins raved about how he and linebackers coach Randy Shannon and defensive line coach Chris Rumph are so in sync that they call out the same adjustments at the same time.
And while Florida’s only coaching change 
came in the secondary, where former Virginia Florida football looking to 
replace talent on defenseIan Cohen / Alligator Staff
Mike White calls out instructions during Florida's 72-66 loss on March 11 to T exas A&M in the third 
round of the SEC T ournament in Nashville.
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14UF is a No. 2 seed
BASEBALLTech assistant Torrian Gray replaced Kirk Callahan, 
Collins doesn’t think that will be an issue.
"What a great guy. A lot of enthusiasm, very dis-
ciplined," Collins said of Gray. "The nickname for the DBs at this school (DBU) I think was shared at the place he was at, which is nice."
Despite losing Hargreaves, the Gators return an elite 
and experienced crop of defensive backs.
That starts with Jalen Tabor, who had a better statis-
tical year than Hargreaves.
"The expectations for him are high, they should be, 
and I don’t think he’s shying away from that one bit," Collins said of Tabor.
At linebacker, the Gators caught a break when Jar-
rad Davis decided to return for his senior season in-stead of declaring for the draft. Collins called Davis "arguably one of the best linebackers coming back in the country."
But other than Davis, the position is a virtual un-
known. Alex Anzalone has looked solid in the past, but he’s returning from a shoulder injury. And Daniel Mc-Millian and Matt Rolin, who came in with Davis and Anzalone, haven’t produced in the way that they were 
expected to when Florida signed them.
Up front, while the Gators lost two big playmakers 
in Bullard and McCalister, they aren’t lacking bodies to 
replace them.
Caleb Brantley, Khairi Clark, Taven Bryan, Jus-
tus Reed, Jordan Sherit, Bryan Cox., Thomas Holley, 
Keivonnis Davis and Cece Jefferson will all see consid-
erable playing time on the line.
"We move everybody around because… the more 
techniques they can play, the more marketable they are," Collins said.
But only time will tell if anyone steps up to fill the 
void, or if the void is filled by committee.
Either way, Collins expects more of the same for 
now and improvement down the road.
"We’ve stepped right where we left off," he said. 
"The expectation is to take it even higher than we were. That’s nothing we’re gonna shy away from."
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
played both of the Gators’ South-
eastern Conference Tournament games with the injury, scoring 19 total points and grabbing 15 re-
bounds despite the pain. He will 
be with the team in Jacksonville, but his playing status is still unde-termined.
The Gators know they will 
get UNF’s best shot at an upset. Florida can’t underestimate the matchup.
"They’re fired up, they’re going 
to be ready to play," junior Kasey Hill said of the Ospreys. "They’re probably going to have a lot of fans there, but we have to match 
that intensity and come ready to 
play."
Hill was a pleasant surprise for 
Florida’s offense at last week’s SEC Tournament in Nashville, 
scoring 18 points in each of UF's 
two games. 
Following those performances, 
White said the junior guard stood 
out as one of the best players on 
the court in the team’s practice on Sunday."I thought he had that look in 
his eye. I loved his body language. He was making winning plays and playing as hard as he could play." White said of Hill’s tourna-ment play. "I thought he put us on 
his back there for a few minutes 
stretch in the second game against A&M. He was really good."
Hill attributed his better play 
as of late to the ball simply going through the rim.
He said he has stayed in the 
gym and put in a lot of work into getting better, but that he’s still 
not satisfied.
Florida will need the offense he 
displayed in Nashville, especially 
with the possible absence or limit-
ed minutes of Egbunu. Hill said he 
is excited to be back in the post-season, even if it is the NIT. 
"Just another chance to com-
pete, honestly," Hill said. 
"Obviously, we love playing 
basketball and we get the chance to keep playing, so it’s gonna be fun."
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13Hill scored 18 points in 
both of Florida's SEC 
Tournament games
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Tabor is embracing high expectationsmentum at the plate.
"We kind of want to get ev-
erything going … to get the of-
fense going," Alonso said. 
"We’ve been playing really 
good defense, so this is really good for us. We’re starting to come together and get every-thing kind of on the same page."
The game against the Semi-
noles will be the last game for the Gators to make a statement before opening Southeastern Conference play against Mis-souri this weekend.
"It makes us better when we 
play them and I hope they feel the same way," O’Sullivan said. 
"You gotta be at your best 
and you gotta be on top of your 
game if you’re going to beat Flor-
ida State."
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 13The Gators open SEC play against Missouri
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill attempts a floater during Florida's 72-66 loss to T exas 
A&M in the SEC T ournament in Nashville on March 11.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Peter Alonso stands at first base during Florida's 5-4 win over North Florida at McKethan Stadium on March 9.
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor prepares to run a drill during Florida's Spring practice on March 11 at the Sanders Practice Fields. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The Gators’ gymnastics team is 
back at square one.
Despite an 8-2 regular-season 
record and Friday’s blowout vic-
tory over North Carolina, the slate has been wiped clean.
If Florida hopes to kick-start 
its postseason run with a win, it’ll need to do so against the South-eastern Conference’s best.
On Saturday, the Gators will 
trek to North Little Rock, Arkansas, 
to compete in the SEC Champion-
ships as the No. 1 seed for the sixth time in seven years.
However, if they want to haul 
home their first conference title since 2013, the Gators will need to focus  and make the most of their unique situation.
Competing on a Saturday for 
the first time this season, Florida’s gymnasts will have an extra day to prepare, presenting a departure from their typical schedule.
The time change won’t be the 
only wrench thrown their way, though. 
“What’s nice about the SEC 
competition is that it’s on podium, 
which is what our national cham-
pionship competition is on,” coach Jenny Rowland said. “And I believe we’re the only conference in the nation that competes on podium for our SEC Championship meet.
“...competing on podium is a lit-tle bit different than competing on a normal basketball floor. So, that gives our athletes an opportunity to get used to the equipment, get 
settled in and get ready for Satur-day’s competition.”
In spite of these minor hitches, 
the Gators present a challenge to 
the seven other teams vying for a 
conference championship.UF brings three national top-five 
competitors to the 18,000-capacity 
Verizon Arena. 
Arguably, though, Florida’s 
depth is its greatest asset, made possible by the talent and coach-ability that permeates the roster top-to-bottom. 
“Every meet is important,” 
Rowland said. 
“And what I tell the girls (is) 
that it’s a process. We have contin-ued to change the lineups here and 
there to rest people, to give others 
opportunities, and I feel that we’ve done a good job of replacing and switching people around.
“Those athletes have done a 
tremendous job of competing (in) whatever spot, whatever lineup we’ve asked them to compete in.” 
Records can be wiped, but mo-
mentum carries on. 
Rowland said the Gators are 
right where they want to be.
“I would like to say that we are 
peaking at the correct point of our 
season, yes,” she said. 
“Continuing to work on little de-
tails, of course… but I think we’ve 
definitely been moving in the right 
direction.”
    @ajlib
        alopez@alligator.orgFlorida refocusing before conference championships
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Gymnast Alicia Boren hugs coach Jenny Rowland during Florida’s win over North Carolina on Friday. 
GYMNASTICS
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
All season long, the team motto for the 
Gators has been “want more.”
And on Monday night, they got it. 
After missing out on any form of postsea-
son play last season, Florida is going back to the Big Dance.
Competing as a No. 5 seed, UF will square 
off with Albany in the first round of the NCAA 
Tournament on Friday at noon. Florida’s 
bracket also features Syracuse, which UF 
would play on the Orange’s home court should both teams win their first games, and confer-ence rival South Carolina.
“When something’s taken away from you, 
you seem to appreciate it a little bit more than you would maybe when you kinda take it for granted,” UF coach Amanda Butler said on Monday. “It’s a great feeling, a great reward for our players, but also the beginning of some-thing special, hopefully.”
While wanting more has helped the Gators 
get to the tournament, they have also adopted unusual tactics in an effort to reach the post-season. 
At the beginning of the season, for example, 
Butler took her players boxing to teach them toughness. Now, five months later and days away from the NCAA Tournament, she decid-ed it was time for her team to revisit the ring.
“We really feel that the biggest determining 
factor for us in this tournament and how far we can go is gonna be totally driven by our toughness,” Butler said. “And so (boxing) was something we felt like really gives us an edge and it’s a great way for us to set the tone for toughness.”
Toughness is something that Butler has 
tried to instill in her team since day one, but it was also something that appeared absent the last time the Gators took the court.
In a 23-point beatdown at the hands of 
Kentucky in their first SEC Tournament game, the Gators couldn’t muster up any toughness in the face of adversity, and only fell further 
behind as the game wore on.
But Butler is approaching the upcoming 
NCAA Tournament as a new season, which 
includes treating its loss to Kentucky as noth-ing more than a motivational memory. And by taking her team boxing again, she’s hoping the toughness will return.
Another moniker the Gators have gone to 
is trust, loyalty and commitment, or TLC. The acronym is on all promotional material around the basketball complex, and the attitude has led to the Gators having something they didn’t have last year: another chance.
Last season, after a 22-point loss to Auburn 
in the SEC Tournament, there was no chance to prove anything. The whole season culminat-ed in a blowout conference tournament loss. So this year, the Gators are excited to have an-other shot.
“There was a really palpable feeling that 
was a lot of desire, a lot of hunger, a lot of anticipation for what was next,” Butler said of the team’s practices leading up to selection Monday.
Making the tournament had extra meaning for redshirt senior Carlie Needles, who is one 
of five players graduating after this campaign.
“Going out last year was tough on us,” Nee-
dles said. “It’s a new season for us… and we’ll 
be ready to play and we’ll start off the way we 
started off the regular season.” 
In addition to the slogans, monikers and 
methods already being employed, Butler added 
a new one heading into the tournament. This 
time, she used horse racing as a metaphor for 
how her team is approaching the NCAA Tour-
nament.“All we can do is go out and run our race 
and play our best, and I think that’s the way our 
team is gonna approach this,” she said.
But unlike race horses, the Gators hope to 
avoid going into their next contest blind to what 
they’ll face: a big stage with big-time opponents.
“Competing against the best in the country, 
you’ve gotta play your best at the right time, or 
you’re gonna be disappointed,” Butler said.
                @ebaueri
                                 ebauer@alligator.orgUF women’s basketball team earns No. 5 seed in NCAA tourney
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler calls out instructions to her team during Florida’s 92-69 loss to Ken-
tucky on March 4 at the SEC T ournament in Jacksonville.
Florida missed the postseason last year16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
With runners on second and third base in 
the bottom of the seventh inning, shortstop 
Kelsey Stewart threw to ﬁ  rst. 
But as Auburn’s Jade Rhodes charged toward ﬁ  rst and as Emily Carosone headed home, Schwarz dropped the ball and the No. 
3 Tigers came out with a walk-off 5-4 win.
The No. 1 Gators’ (26-1, 2-1 Southeastern 
Conference) ﬁ  rst loss came on a 40-degree 
evening in the ﬁ  nal leg of a three-game series in Auburn, Alabama.“Overall, we didn’t play great Gator soft-
ball in the seventh inning,” coach Tim Walton 
said in a release. “When you give a good team 
an opportunity and allow them to knock on 
the door, you see what happens.”
The Tigers (23-3, 1-2 SEC) jumped out to 
an early lead after Rhodes hit a two-run home run in the bottom of the second off junior Delanie Gourley, giving Auburn a 2-0 edge.
Florida chipped away at the Tigers’ lead 
in the fourth when sophomore Kayli Kvistad drove in senior Kirsti Merritt on a ground out.
Merritt put Florida in the driver’s seat in 
the ﬁ  fth when she dug in and lifted a low 1-2 
pitch over the left-center ﬁ  eld fence — her 
fourth home run in ﬁ  ve games. The three-run 
shot gave the Gators life and a 4-2 lead.
“To be down a run and for her to put that 
swing on what looked like a changeup is re-
ally good,” Walton said. “Just to see our re-
sponse and be able to come back from being down on the road in a pretty big time environ-ment is good to see.”
Auburn’s Carosone hit a home run in the 
bottom of the inning, cutting the Florida lead to 4-3.
Sophomore Aleshia Ocasio came in to 
close the game after Gourley tossed six in-nings, giving up four hits, four walks and three earned runs.
As the Tigers trailed in the bottom of the 
seventh, Carosone reached on a ﬁ  elder’s choice and drove in the tying run.
Two batters later, Rhodes’ grounder to 
Stewart took a moment too long to ﬁ  eld. Stewart threw the ball to ﬁ  rst as the runner ar-rived, making the ﬁ  nal play seem like a judge-ment call, until ﬁ  rst baseman Taylor Schwarz did not cleanly come up with the ball.
“We had plenty of opportunities to score a 
lot of runs,” Walton said. “I said it even with the two victories, we have to do a better job of putting team’s away and we didn’t do that today.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgAuburn hands Florida ﬁ  rst loss of season in series ﬁ  naleSOFTBALL
Kelsey Stewart ﬁ  elds a ball during Florida’s doubleheader sweep of Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff