We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 79 TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
Gators continue conference play 
against surging Aggies
TAMU has won six in a row, pg. 13
Gators continue conference play 
Krishna Lunch, some Greek houses to begin composting
Composting is increasing at UF, pg. 3
UF Health Congenital Heart Center celebrates
It’s the 10-year anniversary, pg. 5Student organization receives $500 grant to build prosthetics  
It’s called Generational Relief in 
Prosthetics, pg. 9
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Postermania
Ember Szilagyi (left), an 18-year-old UF business management freshman, and Annika Czizik, an 18-year-old UF biology fresh-
man, browse the posters for sale on the Reitz Union Breezeway on Monday. The poster sale will continue until Friday at 6 p.m.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
At 10:59 p.m. Wednesday, UF 
students will watch as the U.S. Pow-
erball numbers are called.Michael Russel, a UF political sci-
ence and criminology and law sopho-more, formed the Lottery Ticket Al-liance on Jan. 10 as a way to give fellow students and himself a higher chance of winning the $1.4 billion jackpot. If one person in the group 
wins, the winner keeps half of the jackpot, while the other half is divid-
ed among the 25 members.
“How cool would it be for a bunch 
of students to win this money and pay off student debt?” the 19-year-old said.
The other students, whom he said 
he promised would stay anonymous unless they win, have all listed their ticket numbers. Russel said he’ll look at the numbers Wednesday night to see if someone in the group won.Luigi Ricard, 19, said he read 
about the alliance on Facebook.
“No sane person would sign off 
half of their winnings,” the UF bio-medical engineering sophomore said.
Ricard said he’s seen other groups like Russel’s, but he was surprised his didn’t have a legally binding con-tract. He said he plans on buying 10 tickets himself, but it would be cool if UF students win the jackpot.
“I’d be kind of proud of the UF 
students,” he said.
Russel said he hopes to increase 
UF students’ chances of winning, but anything can happen.
“This is not a guaranteed win,” 
he said.UF student starts group to increase lottery chances
TRAFFIC REPORT
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martinvassolo
Authorities and Alachua County Fire Rescue 
responded to two accidents — one outside Li-
brary West and the other on Stadium Road — throughout Monday.
At about 10:30 a.m., a UF student drove 
her scooter down West University Avenue and crashed into a turning car, said Gainesville Po-lice spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
She tried to cross an intersection when a 
bus blocked the view of a driver, who then turned left on University Avenue and crossed the scooter’s path, Tobias said.
The scooter driver was taken to UF Health 
Shands Hospital to be treated for non-life-threatening injuries, Tobias said.
About two hours later, a UF student rode 
his bicycle west down Stadium Road and hit another student crossing the road, the bicyclist said.
The woman walked across the road with a 
group of people from whom she broke away before the bicyclist clenched his brakes and hit the woman with his handlebars, the bicyclist said.
He said the woman scraped her hands and 
hit her head on the road, but she was not taken to the hospital.
“She didn’t see the bicycle and the bicyclist 
didn’t see her,” said University Police spokes-man Maj. Brad Barber. The student said he spoke with police and left without a citation.
“The dangers of riding your bike at UF, 
man,” the bicyclist said. “People literally every-where.”  Car, scooter 
crash outside Library West
UF’S DONATION WILL REPLACE 
ABOUT 30 LIGHTS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
UF and Gainesville are working together to 
install streetlights near campus. 
UF donated $25,000 to add lights behind Midtown, the area north of campus, Dec. 22, 
wrote Chip Skinner, the city’s Regional Tran-sit System and Public Works marketing and communications supervisor in an email. UF’s donation will join the $350,000 the city has provided for lighting. 
UF and the city hope the lights help stu-
dents stay safe when walking at night, he said. So far, 29 lights have been upgraded to provide better lighting, and six new ﬁ  xtures have been installed on Southwest Ninth Road and Southwest Ninth Avenue. 
Installing and upgrading the lights will 
cost between $1 million and $1.4 million dol-lars, Skinner said. UF’s contribution will re-place about 30 streetlights. 
Eleven areas north and east of campus will 
be getting new or better lighting, Skinner said. 
The city will ﬁ  nish replacing the lights be-
hind Midtown early this year, but a date has not been ﬁ  nalized, Skinner said. UF donates money for more streetlightsIt’s a $1.4 billion jackpot
“This is not a guaranteed 
win.” 
Michael Russel
UF political science and 
criminology and law sophomore
SEE LIGHTS,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Kathleen Benson: Writing 
African- American Children’s 
LiteratureAward- winning children’s liter-ature author Kathleen Benson 
will discuss her latest work, 
“Draw What You See,” a book on the life and art of Benny Andrews. Benson will also dis-cuss her long career writing African-American children’s lit-erature and history Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100.Breathe
“Breathe,” the story of one 
man’s journey to live beyond 
the odds, comes to the Squitieri Studio Theatre, located in the West Wing of the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, from Jan. 16-17.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 79
HIGH  59° LOW  36°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
COMPOSTING IS 
INCREASING AT UF. 
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
mkornfield@alligator.org
@MerylKornfield
More orange and blue organizations are 
going green.
This semester Krishna Lunch and some 
sorority and fraternity houses will begin 
composting. Composting, in which biode-
gradable trash is turned into fertilizer, is 
increasing at UF, said Marie Peralta, the former director of the Student Compost Cooperative.
“I think composting programs have 
grown tremendously,” the 21-year-old UF biology senior said. “My first year, I never saw anything about composting.”
Rachel Reiss, the Greeks Going Green 
president, said she is excited to see her so-rority house, Alpha Epsilon Phi, compost-ing food scraps. 
Currently, they are composting uneat-
en food that hasn’t been served, the UF political science senior said. The kitchen prepares lunch and dinner for about 400 members every week, but only about 120 members attend meals.
“I think people are really going to re-alize the scope of this when they see the numbers,” Reiss said.
To collect the food, the sorority has 
bins in its kitchen, the 20-year-old said. The kitchen staff later empties them into larger bins in the backyard. 
UF’s Physical Plant picks up the waste 
for composting when they collect the rest of the trash, where it is composted at the greenhouses on Radio Road.
Reiss said she thinks Chi Phi and Chi 
Omega are going to begin composting in their houses this semester. 
She hopes to compost partially-eaten 
food in the future.
“One of the things I learned my first 
two years (as president) is you need to start small,” she said.
Hanan Shwefel, a Krishna member, 
shares Reiss’s enthusiasm for the new re-lationship with UF’s Physical Plant.
Shwefel said Krishna Lunch has com-
posted in the past, but stopped when it 
was no longer profitable to the company 
that composted for them. 
Despite this, Krishna Lunch has con-
tinued using compostable plates, napkins, cups and utensils.
But through UF’s Physical Plant, Krish-
na Lunch is again composting for the more than 1,000 people served daily. 
The trash bags are compostable, too.
“I’m very happy,” Shwefel said. “For 
years, we tried to do things ourselves. You 
need cooperation if you want to be green.”
Peralta said she’s happy Krishna is be-
coming more sustainable.
“I eat Krishna Lunch all the time,” Per-
alta said. “I would see all the food waste get thrown out in the normal trash can, and it was frustrating.”Krishna Lunch, some Greek houses to begin compostingCAMPUS
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
Four UF online programs have 
ranked among the best in the nation.
The 2016 U.S. News Best Online 
Programs rankings, released today, placed UF’s education graduate pro-
gram first in the nation. The master 
of business administration ranked 
fourth and the graduate engineering 
program ranked 44th. UF was also named 11th among all online bach-elor’s programs.
U.S. News created the rankings 
based on student engagement, fac-ulty credentials and training, student services and technology, and peer reputation.
The online graduate education 
program ranked 13th in 2015. The rise in placement was partially be-cause UF marketed the program 
better last year, said Andrew McCol-
lough, the UF associate provost for teaching and technology.
“All the colleges, like education, 
that have a significant online pro-gram are constantly trying to make them better,” he said.
He said while rankings are im-
portant, the roughly 10,000 students 
in the online programs are his first 
priority.“We look at improvements as a 
result of student success and student progress,” McCollough said. 
But he said he was excited about 
the online bachelor’s program’s po-sition on the list. 
Before UF created the current on-
line bachelor’s program two years ago, students had to complete half of their degree at a state university before being allowed to finish the rest in UF’s online classes. Now, they earn their degrees completely online through UF.
Fourteen undergraduate degrees 
are now online.
“They are among the pioneers 
to this process,” McCollough said. “We’re breaking new ground and evolving.”
UF’s online bachelor’s programs 
ranked 13th last year, said Evie Cummings, the director of UF on-line.
About 90 percent of students in 
those programs are from Florida, but students enroll from across the na-tion, she said.
“All of our hard work is reflect-ed in these updated numbers,” she said. “(The ranking) reflects the fact that there’s a great demand out there to get a University of Florida educa-tion.”
Dustan Atkinson said UF’s online 
MBA program allows him to pursue 
his degree while working in Atlanta.
“I very quickly came to the de-
cision that UF was the pinnacle 
and best fit for my situation,” the 32-year-old said.
He said he wasn’t surprised the 
program ranked fourth, the same ranking it received from last year.
“The high quality of the program 
is very consistent with the position and the rankings,” Atkinson said.
UF ranks nationally in U.S. News Best Online Programs
Lady Mendoza/Alligator
Jomar Duran, a 21-year-old UF psychology senior, uses one of Krishna Lunch’s first 
compost trash cans on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. 
“W e look at improvements as 
a result of student success and 
student progress.”
Andrew McCollough
UF associate provost for 
teaching and technologyBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
Abebe Taffere will see his family 
in Ethiopia this February.
The UF anthropology gradu-
ate student, who is originally from 
Ethiopia, is joining nine other UF 
students on a study-abroad program 
Feb. 3. They will excavate volcanic rocks in a cave in southwest Ethiopia for six weeks. The trip costs $5,176.
“I’m very, very excited,” the 
35-year-old said.
He said he’s been to southwest-
ern Ethiopia before. This time, he’s excited to go back to study his ﬁ  eld 
of work.
On Monday, students going on 
the trip set up in front of Pugh Hall, 
where Steven Brandt, a professor of anthropology, taught them to carve tools out of stone and bones.
They used elk antlers and ham-
merstones, a hard cobblestone, to make tools, Brandt said.
He said he’s been taking students 
on the trip since 2007, but this will be his 40th trip.
“Every student will say it’s 
changed their life for the positive,” Brandt said. 
During the trip, students will 
have the opportunity to earn 14 cred-its while doing research on Mochena Borago, a 200-foot wide cave in a tropical part of the country. The cave in the highlands is made of obsidian rocks.
The students are going to study 
if refugees lived there about 50,000 
years ago, Brandt said.
While conducting research at the 
cave, Taffere said he will be about 
466 miles from his hometown. 
Taffere wrote in an email that he’s interested in learning how hu-mans created and used stone tools during the migration from Africa about 60,000 years ago.
Taffere, who started at UF last 
Fall, said he hopes to gather research for his dissertation.
Justin Dunnavant, 27, said he 
will be going on the trip for the third 
time.
The anthropology doctoral stu-
dent said he originally went on the 
trip to begin studying the slave trade along Africa’s east coast.
This year, he’ll be gathering in-
formation for his dissertation on current ethnic groups. He said past trips have helped him consider the 
diverse communities in Ethiopia.
“It’s really eye opening,” he said.
He said he wants to test if refu-
gees settled in the cave at one point in time.  
“The question has always been, 
where was everybody during this time period?” Brandt said. “If we’re successful, it’ll be one of the ﬁ  rst 
times we can test this theory.”4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
Abebe T affere, a 35-year-old UF ﬁ  rst-year archaeology graduate student, sifts through a box of stones, 
which he used to construct a tool on Monday. T affere is a member of UF in Ethiopia, a course that is sending 10 students to an archaeological excavation in Ethiopia.
LOCAL
By Madeleine Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer    
Ana Ward still eats at Chipotle 
despite a recent outbreak of E. coli.
As of press time, there were 53 
cases of E. coli among nine states 
— not including Florida — from 
people who had eaten from the 
Mexican restaurant since Novem-ber, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
On Friday, Susie Ong ﬁ  led a 
lawsuit against the company on be-
half of all the investors who were 
affected by the bacteria, according to U.S. District Court records.
The lawsuit claims Chipotle 
misled investigators about its qual-ity control, leading to plummeting stock prices. The stock fell to about $426 on Jan. 6 — a drop of about 5 percent, according to the records.
Regardless of the E. coli out-
break, the Chipotle near UF on Uni-versity Avenue is still thriving.    
“I will still take the risk and eat 
there,” said Ward, a UF plant sci-ence junior.
The 20-year-old said she is not 
worried about getting sick.
“I feel like the chance is really 
small, and you would take that risk with any restaurant,” she said.
Keith Schneider, a UF food sci-
ence and human nutrition profes-sor, said it would be rare to con-tract E. coli from the Chipotle near 
campus.
“The fact that we haven’t seen 
any foodborne illnesses in Florida, 
let alone the entire Southeast, prob-ably would lead me to believe that there is no greater risk eating at a Chipotle in the Southeast than there is in any other fast food type restau-rant,” Schneider said.
It is not unusual to ﬁ  nd E. coli 
in low numbers when food is being produced organically, he said.
“The widespread nature of (Chi-
potle E. coli outbreaks), leads you to believe that it is some environ-mental source for the contamina-tion,” Schneider said.
The contamination of Chipotle 
food is likely a result of improperly composted fertilizer or wild ani-mals tracking the bacteria through the supplier’s ﬁ  elds, he said. 
There are hundreds of different 
strains of E. coli, some more severe than others, Schneider said. The most common strain heard about in the news is E. coli O157:H7.  
Chipotle released a statement 
on its website addressing the E. coli breakout.
“The safety of our customers 
and the integrity of our food supply have always been our highest pri-orities,” according to the statement. 
“We offer our deepest sympathies 
to those who have been affected by this situation, and will continue to cooperate with health authorities as they look to conclude their investi-gation.”
David Greenberg, the owner 
of David Greenberg Communica-tions, a public relations ofﬁ  ce, said 
he believes Chipotle’s initial step in 
keeping their brand intact is to ad-mit they made a mistake.
“When you screw up, always 
explain very clearly what processes are being put into place to move forward,” Greenberg said.
Chipotle’s main target audience 
is young adults, and their focus 
should be on retaining this group of 
individuals, he said.
“One of the things they could 
do for their loyal, regular custom-ers is offer an incentive,” Greenberg said. “Given their target audience, if they offer discounts, they will keep them.”  Students eat Chipotle 
despite E. coli outbreakUF students prepare for Ethiopia trip
UF’s donation came after discussions with 
Mayor Ed Braddy about how the university 
could improve public safety, said Charlie Lane, UF’s chief operating ofﬁ  cer. 
“I’ve been very interested in public safety 
since I arrived at UF about 18 months ago,” Lane said.  
He said UF wanted to increase lighting be-
hind Midtown. 
To see what conditions students walked 
home in, about 20 ofﬁ  cials rode around the area in golf carts May 15. The team included ofﬁ  cials from the city, Gainesville Police, Uni-versity Police and UF.
“We identiﬁ  ed a number of areas that we 
felt like would need additional lighting,” Lane said.
He said he wants parents to know their 
children are safe.
“Parents are concerned about safety,” Lane said. “As senior administrators, we’re very in-terested with taking care of our students.” 
Kyrstin Deffendall, a UF business sopho-
more, said she feels safe near her apartment 
behind Midtown.  
The 19-year-old said she is comfortable 
walking near University Avenue at night, but 
feels unsafe walking along back roads after dark. 
“When you get farther away (from Uni-
versity Avenue) it gets a little sketchier,” she said. 
Deffendall said there should also be more 
streetlights near UF’s sororities, not just near Midtown. 
“There’s just as many people everywhere 
else,” she said. 
She said UF’s donation will help future stu-
dents, including herself, feel safer.
“I feel like people’s safety should be 
the number one concern,” Deffendall said. “That’s where most of the money should be 
going anyway, aside from academic funding.” LIGHTS,  from pg 1Lighting to increase by Midtown
“I will still take the risk and 
eat there.”
Ana Ward  
20-year-old UF plant science 
juniorIt’s a study-abroad programTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Sid Martin Biosciences In-
stitute director is looking to involve 
UF students.
Mark Long, who was appointed 
director Jan. 4, said he wants to 
start an internship program for UF 
students. The Biosciences Institute and its biotechnology incubator help Gainesville residents create biotechnology startups, which can make medical devices to help oth-ers.
“The incubator gets (Gainesville 
residents’) ideas from concept to 
reality so that they can save lives,” 
he said.
Long will earn $150,000 a year, 
said UF spokesman Steve Orlando. The institute’s search committee picked Long through a series of in-terviews.
“Mr. Long was the unanimous 
preference of the search commit-tee,” Orlando said. 
Long previously worked with 
a biotechnology institute at Wash-ington University in St. Louis.
He said he fell in love with help-
ing others while there.
“It’s excit-
ing when you see ideas go from an idea in someone’s head 
to going to a product, and that product be-comes an actual business that 
may actually save someone’s life,” Long said. 
Michelle Gittino, a UF health 
administration graduate student, said she thinks the incubator is an amazing idea.
“Once you have a great idea, 
it’s hard to set it into play,” the 23-year-old said. “But with a place 
like the incubator, you could go 
there and get help.”New kid in town: Bio-
science director chosen
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Gainesville City Commission and mayoral 
candidates got the 2016 city elections under-
way Monday night at a forum in which they discussed diversity, same-sex marriage and local issues.
About 40 people attended the forum, host-
ed by the Human Rights Council of North Central Florida and the Alachua County branch of the NAACP, at the Pride Commu-nity Center of North Central Florida.
The event was the first of several forums 
before the March 15 Presidential Preference Primary elections. 
In the mayoral race, incumbent Ed Braddy 
faces former city commissioner Lauren Poe and Gainesville resident Donald Shepherd Sr.
The District 4 Commission race is more 
narrow: Outspoken landlord Jim Konish is up against ambitious entrepreneur Adrian Hayes-Santos.
Candidates began with opening state-
ments and then dove into new territory out-side of their established platforms: employee 
diversity, same-sex marriage and equality for 
the LGBTQ+ community.
Braddy was the only candidate who did 
not voice support for same-sex marriage, de-clining to support or oppose the issue.
The forum then moved into plans to de-velop East Gainesville’s economy.
Shepherd promised citywide economic 
equality, while Konish said the city needs to defund Grace Marketplace and Dignity Vil-lage and use those funds to improve infra-structure.
“We cannot dump things like Dignity Vil-lage on East Gainesville… and think we’re doing East Gainesville good, because we’re not,” Konish said.
Braddy stressed the need to make the area 
more user-friendly, especially for small busi-ness owners who don’t have connections with people at UF or the city.Poe said the city needs to make East 
Gainesville a premier, welcoming place to live  with more opportunities for residents.
Hayes-Santos, who said he lives near East 
Gainesville, also promised to address issues facing the area.
“There are significant problems on the 
east side,” he said. 
He said the city needs to improve trans-
portation in the area, and called for the city, Santa Fe College, UF, the school board and others to help improve East Gainesville. 
Candidates also addressed the potential 
purchase of a controversial biomass plant and whether residents should vote to ap-prove such a purchase. 
The City Commission discussed the mat-
ter at length last week, but a decision seems 
far off.
“Purchase of the biomass plant is a ridicu-
lous proposition that should not be submitted 
to the voters,” Konish said, explaining it’s too complex of a question to go on a ballot.
Hayes-Santos questioned the proposal.“Should it go to a vote? I don’t know if it 
will work out going to a vote,” he said.
Braddy opposed the idea, but Shepherd 
supported it.
Poe said voters should know exactly what 
they’re voting on if such a vote is put on the ballot. Four other forums are currently sched-uled in January and February, according to the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections’ website.Local elections candidates discuss diversity, East GNVBy Kayla Solem
Alligator Contributing Writer
Connie Nixon remembers 
when Mateo Hernandez came to 
UF, fighting for his life before he 
was born.
The now 18-month-old boy’s 
mother came to the UF Health 
Congenital Heart Center from 
Puerto Rico after discovering her 
son would be born with a heart defect.
Hernandez is one of thou-
sands who have come to the cen-
ter, which opened at UF Health 
Shands Children’s Hospital in 2006. In the past 10 years, the center added an intensive care 
unit and started performing heart 
transplants, said Nixon, a regis-tered nurse and clinical coordina-tor at the center.
Nixon has worked at the cen-ter for three years and said she 
has seen it grow. They have been 
able to save more lives in the time she’s been there.
“It used to be that people 
didn’t live, and now they live, 
and they live good lives,” Nixon 
said.
The center is working on ad-
vancing technology in the cardi-
ology department, she said. 
It was the first in Florida to 
put a SynCardia Total Artificial 
Heart in a 16-year-old patient.
Jennifer Co-Vu, a pediatric 
cardiologist and director of the fetal cardiac program, has been working there for five years. She said the center hopes to be No. 1 
in the state for congenital heart 
health.
“We’re anticipating hopefully 
to be able to produce more ad-vanced technology that can help patients with congenital heart disease,” she said.
But for Nixon, she said she 
goes to work every day to help save lives.
“I see these kids with heart 
disease and they have so much potential,” she said. “I love work-
ing with the parents and giving 
them hope and that their kids are going to grow up and go to col-lege and do whatever it is they want to do.”
Nixon said she loves her job 
and no amount of money could 
make her do anything else.
“I don’t have two children, I 
have thousands,” she said. “They 
become a part of your family.”Congenital Heart Center celebrates
Long
Scott Parker / Alligator
From left, Adrian Hayes-Santos, Jim Konish, Mayor Ed Braddy, Lauren Poe and Don-
ald Shepherd Sr. participate in a city elections forum at the Pride Community Center of North Central Florida on Monday night.
THERE IS A $1,000 
REWARD AVAILABLE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martinvassolo
A local man is dead and a lo-
cal woman is in the hospital after 
a shooting Monday in the Holly Heights area in East Gainesville.
Authorities have not found the 
suspected shooter or the firearm used, said Alachua County Sher-iff’s Office spokesman Art Forgey.
At about 2 p.m. Monday, dep-
uties found both victims shot in the 6800 block of S.W. Fourth Place, according to a press re-lease.
The deputy who first arrived at the scene gave the victims first-
aid care until an ambulance took 
them to a local hospital, Forgey said.
The man, later identified as 
Isadore Lee, 26, died at the hos-pital Monday night, he said. The woman, Lakeya Steward, 28, is being treated for a gunshot wound that is currently not be-
lieved to be life-threatening.Forgey said he could not re-
lease the name of the hospital 
because the shooter has not been caught. The incident began with an argument between a few peo-ple, and it ended when someone pulled out a gun and started to shoot, according to the release.
Officers with Gainesville Police 
helped the sheriff’s office secure 
the Holly Heights area afterward.Deputies searched the area 
Monday but have faced obstacles, 
Forgey said.
“Some of the witnesses are 
scared and not fully cooperating at this time,” he said.
A $1,000 reward has been set 
for anyone who offers informa-tion on the shooting that leads to an arrest and the seizing of the 
weapon used.
Police search for shooter who killed man, injured woman“I don’t have two children, 
I have thousands. They 
become a part of your 
family. ”
Connie Nixon
Registered nurse, clinical coordinatorIt’s the 10-year anniversaryThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnBowie’s passing 
calls for his life to 
be celebrated
No sooner than after Monday’s editorial on manatees, 
we have unfortunately found ourselves once again writing on a subject featured in last week’s “Darts 
& Laurels.” Monday, the world at large mourned the 
loss of musician David Bowie, who passed away Sun-
day after succumbing to an 18-month-long battle with cancer.
We believe Hilton Als of The New Yorker said it best: 
“This was not supposed to happen. Ever.” No, it most cer-tainly was not. Six decades into his career, Bowie had taken on a quality of seeming immortality in a manner the world will never see again. Although there are rock stars of Bowie’s era and ilk still with us, few of them proved to be as forward-
thinking or innovative as he was, nor did they possess the 
capacity for re-invention he demonstrated time and again, earning him the reputation of a “musical chameleon.” Bowie, both in his body of work and in his nonmusical endeavors, 
was a man constantly looking toward the future; there is a 
pained, twisted irony in seeing him go at the comparatively young age of 69.
For those who grew up with and adored Bowie’s work, 
Monday was a god-awfully small affair. Tributes poured in 
from all walks of life, with artists, the media and fans sharing 
in the collective grief over the loss of a beloved life that had been well-lived. Despite, or perhaps because of, Bowie’s mu-sic’s concern with the plights of vagabonds, ne’er-do-wells 
and other outsiders, his work was of an intensely personal 
nature to many. Speaking from our own experience, many tears were shed Monday. Bowie’s friend and longtime pro-ducer Tony Visconti himself said that despite knowing the end was near, he wasn’t ready: “He was an extraordinary 
man, full of love and life. He will always be with us. For now, 
it is appropriate to cry.”
Grieving, even for artists whom we may have never known 
personally, is a healthy and necessary ritual surrounding 
death. However, it is now the next day, and for those still 
(rightfully) grieving, it’s time to celebrate his work and all it gave us, rather than grieve his passing. We are lucky to live in a city bursting with artistic and creative people, to say nothing of our rich musical history. Several events tak-
ing place this week have already been announced, such as a 
double screening of Bowie’s most famous ﬁ  lms, “Labyrinth” and “The Man Who Fell to Earth,” at Curia On The Drag on Wednesday night. For those more inclined to move than sit 
around and watch, there will also be a costume party at the 
Arcade Bar on Thursday night.
If there was a single unifying principle to Bowie’s life and 
work, it was change. Change can come at any moment and happens whether we like it or not. Although we would have 
it otherwise, death is one of the most fundamental aspects 
of change. It’s OK to cry when those we care about or those who profoundly moved us go away; what isn’t OK is to ﬁ  xate on their death, rather than their life. Cue up the records, put 
on your makeup and celebrate Bowie’s life as he would have: 
with style.The U.S. and ISIS: How do we salvage victory?
Any successful strategy against ISIS will 
ultimately require both a military and political campaign. On the one hand, our military campaign has proven rel-atively successful. On the other, our 
political opposition to ISIS needs considerable improvement. Before going any further, let’s establish some context.
We began our military airstrike campaign, 
Operation Inherent Resolve, against ISIS in 2014, and since then, more than 7,900 air-strikes have killed nearly 20,000 ISIS ﬁ  ghters, which is nearly double the number of foreign volunteers who ﬁ  ght for ISIS. Furthermore, ISIS has made no signiﬁ  cant 
advances in land acquisition. By all accounts, Operation 
Inherent Resolve, in conjunction with our support and funding of Kurdish and Iraqi army ground forces, has stalemated ISIS territorially and reduced its numbers con-siderably. So, from a strictly military perspective, we are succeeding against ISIS.
So why do Americans not feel any semblance of suc-
cess over ISIS? The answer relates to our underestimation of the political nature of this ﬁ  ght. In spite of their military 
setbacks, events like November’s attacks in Paris, Beirut 
and Baghdad are ISIS’ way of injecting fear into the West-ern eye. These attacks have successfully perpetuated the false notion that ISIS has the upper hand. The more fear ISIS can incite in the West, the more Western ofﬁ  cials cast their derision upon Muslims, Islam and refugees at large. This in turn provides ISIS with more fuel to stoke its anti-Western rhetoric.  
How, then, do we combat ISIS’ political apparatus? The 
ﬁ  rst step is to reorient the political climate regarding ISIS. In my view, it is the responsibility of both public ofﬁ  cials (though we all know how ineffective Congress is) and the American people through social media (which is, ironical-ly enough, far more likely to be successful) to channel po-litical focus on ISIS’ weaknesses and the American Muslim population’s relative harmlessness to national security.
For example, this would mean focusing our attention not on this notion of Syrian refugees bringing terrorism and ISIS ideology to this country, but on ISIS’ weaknesses, such as growing weari-ness and frustration with daily violence felt by the occupied people in ISIS territory and cities 
like Mosul, Iraq.
The U.S. must also prioritize political stabil-
ity in both Iraq and Syria. Political disorder and 
chaos amidst the Syrian Civil War and a shat-tered, war-torn Iraq fuel and strengthen ISIS — without it, their inﬂ  uence quickly fades away. 
In addressing such instability, Iraq may be the easier of the two countries to prioritize ﬁ  rst. Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq has already expressed interest in not only 
ﬁ  ghting ISIS directly with U.S. or Russian arms, but also 
in reaching out to Sunni groups to form a more politically inclusive Iraq.
Meanwhile, it would behoove us to work with the oth-
er nations that former President Jimmy Carter outlined in his highly regarded peace plan — Russia, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Turkey — to draft a political future for Syria. Ulti-mately, both Iraq and Syria will need a politically secure and well-deﬁ  ned future in order to effectively nullify ISIS.
In “The Atlantic,” Graeme Wood, a leading expert on 
ISIS, argued that if properly contained, “(ISIS) is likely to be its own undoing.” As the U.S. continually deadlocks ISIS positions and essentially bleeds it out, “its claim that it is the engine of God’s will and the agent of apocalypse will weaken.”
The key feature to consider when pondering on an ISIS 
strategy for the U.S. is that there is no perfect solution. With the start of 2016, we have before us an unimaginably 
brutal 4.5-year-long civil war, two very broken countries, 
two other countries (Saudi Arabia and Iran) looking to as-sert independent inﬂ  uences and oppose one another and the eyes of the world watching.
The trick in dealing with this chaos will be to devise a 
solution that best ameliorates subsequent consequences.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
I’ve chosen to live my life 
by many overarching rules. 
These include, but are not 
limited to: Don’t drink caf-
feine after 8 p.m., avoid tan-
ning at all costs and don’t be-lieve anyone who doesn’t make 
eye contact. These guidelines, 
while seemingly disjointed, have all arisen from some spe-ciﬁ  c experience that impacted (or scarred) me enough to turn whatever 
lesson I learned into a cardinal rule. Yet 
the most important rule by far is this: “Never trust anyone who was cool in mid-dle school.”
While it started off as a half-hearted 
joke stemming from my own unpleasant middle school experience, this rule inad-vertently ended up being the most reliable one. This was proven not only by my own 
unscientiﬁ  c experience with it, but also by 
a 2014 study conducted at the University of Virginia. No, I’m serious. According to Joseph P. Allen, a professor of psychol-
ogy at the University of Virginia, teen-
agers perceived as being “cool” by their peers in early adolescence often adopted increasingly extreme behaviors in order to maintain their social standings. This often 
resulted in criminal behavior, addiction 
and lowered social capacities by the time “cool” test subjects entered early adult-hood.
Obviously, sitting at the cool table in 
seventh grade isn’t a fast track to prison. But it is nice to know that at least one of my bizarre rules has some sort of logical foundation.
This brings us to the middle school 
climate of today. As with many twenty-somethings, my only connection to that demographic is through my younger sis-
ter. To provide some background, my 
13-year-old sister is a star lacrosse player, GoPro fanatic and skilled social media user. So, she’s cool. While I yearn for the days when she followed me around like 
a lost puppy and riﬂ  ed through my closet 
when I wasn’t looking, I know that they’re long gone. I came to this realization quite recently when she told me I couldn’t be 
seen with her in public unless I changed my outﬁ  t.
But perhaps the most fasci-
nating observations I’ve made about my sister and all her co-
horts are directly related to their relationships with social media. To them, Facebook is for the ancient and decrepit. 
Instagram reigns supreme. If 
a photo doesn’t have a good enough like-to-minute ratio, 
they’ll delete it. How close you are to 
someone directly correlates to the amount 
of “heart-eyes” emojis you comment on that person’s photo. Spending time with my sister largely amounts to following her around, iPhone in hand, as she scouts out 
colorful walls to stand in front of.
I’m not the only one fascinated by this. 
Countless friends and classmates have ob-
served this growing wave of cool middle 
schoolers, and the mass consensus is that 
their constant exposure to social media is the culprit. My 13-year-old self was bliss-fully unaware that Hot Topic band shirts, jelly bracelets and Bermuda shorts were 
uncool simply because I wasn’t exposed to 
evidence that proved otherwise. But as the ﬁ  rst generation to grow up with social me-dia, younger adolescents will never have 
that experience.
As the youngest of three, my sister has 
also had the added beneﬁ  t of learning 
from her siblings’ (my) stumbles. While this will undoubtedly save her a lot of 
time in the long run, I still believe that go-
ing through some sort of awkward phase is an integral element of growing up. It teaches you a lot of things, but above all 
else, it teaches you not to take yourself so 
seriously.
As with so many facets of our daily 
lives, the debate surrounding social me-dia seems unavoidable. Yet, regardless of 
your personal opinion about the matter, 
there’s no need to fret. Even with social media’s omnipresence, there will always be those who intentionally ﬂ  y in the face 
of the ever-changing “cool.” The blun-
der years aren’t going anywhere anytime soon.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English ju-
nior. Her column appears on Tuesdays.Has the awkward phase gone extinct?Column
Being like-minded with those who sought a fit-ness renaissance in the 
New Year, I went to a 
sporting goods store last 
week and purchased a dorky pair of running shoes. The half-
off marking, coupled with the 
promise of a more efficient and healthy respiratory system, had my head and hopes high. Leaving the store, box of Asics in hand, I passed by a 
panderer who was making his last pleas 
before the night set in. It was less em-pathetic and more in the spirit of karmic rectification that I gave the man a few 
dollars in spare change. During the rum-
mage I happened upon a pack of Marlboro 27’s in my pocket and, once again being altruistic, opted to donate the rest of my rather full pack to the strip-mall nomad 
who wanted for so much. 
Much to my surprise, he grinned a yel-
low-toothed response saying, “Oh, thank 
you, but I don’t smoke.” Immediately af-ter, he produced an e-cigarette from the torn and tattered coats that kept him from 
the evening’s cold. 
I knew I had to get out of there imme-
diately, before this king of uncool offered 
me a hit from his e-cigarette. 
I bid him farewell, and in the hopes of 
reclaiming some cool points I lost in his presence, I threw a cigarette in my mouth and met it with the flames of a Zippo 
lighter. 
I don’t want to profess to know and 
be all things cool. I sport dorky sneakers more befitting of a 40-year-old 
dad far too often throughout the week. I just heard Hozi-
er’s “Take Me To Church” two 
months ago and rushed to tell my friends how great of a song it is. A stuffed Ewok doll on my 
nightstand sees me to bed every 
night. But I can definitively say, as a man who knows uncool 
culture all too well, vaping is decidedly not cool. 
Though idiocy is timeless and will al-
ways abound, I was under the impression that regarding white America’s culture of the late ‘90s and early 2000s (yes, I’m 
talking about you, Heelys, JNCO jeans, 
Korn, Limp Bizkit and Papa Roach), we as a society agreed to try to keep it classier going forward. 
Class, that thing which makes one 
forego the tank top for the dress shirt when going to a family dinner at grand-ma’s house. That is, unless your grandma is also a classless “vaper,” in which case 
I say good riddance.
Putting aside the possibly flawed no-
tion of class for a moment, the contriv-
ance of the gadgetry and large clouds of smoke represent the focal point of why 
vaping is for nerds: It is a spectacle for the 
sake of spectacle. 
It’s a sort of “Look what I can do,” 
when the truth is, nobody really cares 
what you can do. Bleak, I know, but the 
smoker lives his or her life knowing this. The smoker’s ploy for attention is a sim-ple one, primarily involving, well, smok-ing. There are no beeps, buttons or fancy 
tricks necessary to keep the ennui at bay.
It’s a more dignified means of suc-
cumbing to the pressures of coolness, and 
that’s what kids today don’t seem to un-
derstand. 
Though it may be a net positive that 
teenage smoking is on the decline, the 
rise of vaping is downright shameful.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.Vaping is not only unhealthy, but 
also remarkably uncoolColumn
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
“But I can deinitively 
say, as a man who 
knows uncool culture 
all too well, vaping is 
decidedly not cool.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator Staff
 IN FULL SWING
Students and alumni in the UF Swing Dance Club do the Lindy Hop in under-40 degree weather on 
Monday night. Despite the cold temperature, the club held its Monday night practice underneath the newly renovated Reitz Union. 
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
At a funeral for Carlos Aguilar’s son, a man 
helped him do something positive with his 
loss.
That man was Armando Perez, founder 
of Missing Children Global Network. Perez 
passed away in 2015, but his foundation lent 
Aguilar a helping hand this month.
Christian Aguilar, a UF student, was report-
ed missing Sept. 20, 2012, in Gainesville. He was murdered Oct. 12, 2012, in Levy County.
That same year, Aguilar founded the Chris-
tian Aguilar Search and Rescue Foundation, which trains dogs to search for missing people.
“Our lives are completely different since he 
(Christian) went missing, and we still aren’t re-covered… and if I can give back to the commu-nity like the community gave to me during the worst days of my life, I will do it,” Aguilar said.However, recent ﬁ  nancial troubles almost 
brought the operation to a halt.
Aguilar posted to Facebook on Jan. 6 to 
announce that sponsors were scarce and he 
could no longer run the organization.
He also announced a partnership with Per-
ez’s foundation, in which the Christian Aguilar 
Search and Rescue Foundation became a divi-sion of the MCGN.
With the partnership, Aguilar hopes to pro-
vide the public with rescue dogs certiﬁ  ed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
He said between training for himself and 
the dogs, along with the costs of transporta-tion, the bill would amount to about $23,000.
“I didn’t know what I was going to get into 
when I decided to open this foundation,” Agui-lar said. “I didn’t know anything about dogs, or how to handle them. These animals give you so much love, so much support emotion-ally, and they become a part of the family.”Fernando Alvarez, a private investigator, 
volunteers at MCGN, and he said the addition of Aguilar’s division will make the process of ﬁ  nding missing children faster – at no cost to 
families.
“We do not care if the family is rich or poor, 
because a child is a child,” he said.
When Aguilar’s son went missing, volun-
teers and professionals searched alongside 
trained dogs to ﬁ  nd Christian.
Hunters eventually found Christian inside 
the Gulf Hammock Hunting Club. Looking back, Aguilar realized the dogs used to search for his son only specialized in ﬁ  nding drugs and providing protection, not recovering miss-ing people.
Gainesville Police currently has nine dogs 
that are trained for several purposes, such as ﬁ  nding drugs. The dogs are able to search for missing people, but it’s not their sole purpose, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said.
The same goes for the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce, spokesman Art Forgey said.
In the future, MCGN, with the help of dogs 
trained through the Christian Aguilar Search and Rescue Foundation, hopes to search the re-
mote areas of Florida and recover the remains 
of missing persons, according to Alvarez.
“I keep my son in my heart, and he will 
never go away,” Aguilar said. “He will never be forgotten and hopefully the people help-ing me will never give up saving people in the name of Christian.” Foundation trains dogs to help locate missing peopleLOCAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Authori-
ties found human remains Monday that they believe are those of a Flori-da toddler who was reported missing 
last summer.
The remains were in a “garbage 
heap” in a wooded area after the 
boyfriend of the child’s mother led them to the site, Jacksonville Sher-iff’s Ofﬁ  ce Chief of Investigations Tom Hackney said at a news confer-ence.
The remains are believed to be those of Lonzie Barton, Hackney said.
Sheriff Mike Williams and State 
Attorney Angela Corey also attended the announcement, made in a church parking lot next to the area where the discovery was made. No cause of death has yet been determined 
and a medical examiner still has to 
positively identify the remains, Co-rey and Williams said.
Searchers found the remains 
shortly after midnight Sunday, just down the road from a neighborhood baseball ﬁ  eld that is tucked amid small homes in the quiet Jackson-ville neighborhood of Bayard. It was 
about 9 miles from the apartment 
where the boy was last seen alive.
Lonzie was 21 months old in July 
when his mother’s boyfriend report-ed him missing. Both the mother, Lonna Lauramore Barton, 26, and her boyfriend, 32-year-old William Ruben Ebron Jr., have been accused of child neglect.
Lauramore Barton pleaded guilty 
last week to child neglect and lying to police and agreed to testify against Ebron. The judge has not yet decid-ed whether she can do so, however. Ebron’s trial was supposed to start Monday morning, but was post-poned when he waived his right to a speedy trial. A hearing is scheduled 
for Jan. 19. Corey says new charges 
are possible for both. Ebron led au-thorities to the site, Williams said.
Ebron’s attorneys and prosecu-
tors declined to comment Monday. Lauramore Barton’s attorneys also said they could not yet comment on the developments.
Last week, Lauramore Barton 
told the judge that Ebron had dealt drugs every day of their relationship. She acknowledged leaving Lonzie and his 5-year-old sister with Ebron while she worked as a dancer at a local bar.
According to court records, Ebron called police July 24, saying the boy had been strapped inside a car seat 
when he stepped back into his apart-
ment to get something. While he was inside, Ebron said someone stole the car with the child inside.
Police found the car a short dis-
tance away, but there was no sign of the child. Investigators at the time said Ebron was lying about the ab-duction and car theft and that he 
likely knew the child’s whereabouts.
Lauramore Barton’s cousin, Sa-
bra Rhue, arrived at the search site 
Monday to see if the remains were Lonzie’s. She said she is not close to her cousin, but has been devastated by the toddler’s disappearance. 
 Police say they may have found remains of Jax toddler
They were found Monday“I didn’t know what I was going to 
get into when I decided to open this 
foundation.”
Carlos Aguilar 
Christian Aguilar Search 
and Rescue Foundation Founder
 Lexi Benton (left), a 19-year-old UF architecture sophomore, 
and Gabor Horvath, a 21-year-old UF physics senior and the teaching coordinator of the UF Swing Dance Club, dance the Lindy Hop outside the Reitz Union on Monday evening. Ben-ton said she has been swing dancing for more than a year, while Horvath said he has been dancing for two and a half years. TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
POLICE FOUND A LOADED 
PISTOL AND A SYRINGE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local man Sunday 
night after police said he tried to hide a loaded pistol 
near Campus Walk Apartments.
At about 7 p.m. Sunday, Steven Jamal Revels, 28, 
and another man stood in the 900 block of S.W. 8th Ave., according to a report.
Police were already in the area, where high drug 
sales prompted increased patrols, according to the report.
As police approached the men, Revels walked 
away. Police then talked with the other man, and Revels soon returned, according to the report.
While one ofﬁ  cer spoke with Revels, another of-ﬁ  cer walked to the corner of the apartment com-
plex where Revels returned from, according to the 
report.
It was there police found a loaded .38-caliber pis-
tol and a used syringe lying on a bed of rocks, according to the re-
port.
Revels said he needed the gun 
for protection because he sold 
drugs, according to the report.
Revels is a seven-time convict-
ed felon whose last charge was for attempted murder in Tampa, ac-
cording to the report.
Police arrested Revels on charges of possessing 
a weapon as a convicted felon and tampering with evidence.
Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail 
where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a 
$350,000 bond.Armed felon arrested near campus
Revels
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld 
Alligator Staff Writer 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
For Jessica Bergau, the organi-
zation began with a BuzzFeed ar-
ticle. 
The article, which discussed 
the 3-D printing of prosthetics, in-spired the 21-year-old UF zoology junior to start Generational Relief 
in Prosthetics, or GRiP, a student 
organization that now uses 3-D printing to build prosthetic hands.
Now about ﬁ  ve months old, the 
organization just received a $500 
donation from Michael George 
Insurance, a subsidiary of the All-state Corporation, to continue its work. “We were looking for donations 
because we needed to buy mate-
rials for making prosthetics,” said Samantha Haus, the vice president 
of GRiP and a UF biomedical engi-neering junior.
Michael George Insurance could 
not be reached for comment. 
Haus, 20, estimates that each 
hand, built from about 30 plastic parts, costs $30 to produce. Most 
of the cost comes from materials  
and additional tools. 
“There are a bunch of little 
pieces of plastic we clean off and 
reﬁ  ne,” Haus said. “There is also 
a lot of tweaking to make sure it works.”
The donation is the latest in a 
series of aid from the Gainesville 
community, including another $500 donation from Acousti Engi-neering Company of Florida, the 
group behind the interior con-struction of the Reitz Union. The Home Depot and Lowe’s have also donated tools. 
The students also created a Go-
FundMe page a month ago that has raised more than half of the orga-nization’s $2,000 goal. 
“It’s great because we know 
right where the money is going to,” Bergau said. “It’s going right to the devices.”
As of now, the students have 
mostly made prosthetic hands for children. Club members have vis-ited Hands for Love, a camp for children with missing limbs, not 
only to educate the children about 
the 3-D printing process, but also to give them prosthetic hands.
“I can’t think of a better way for 
this donation,” Bergau said.  GRiP continues fundraising eﬀ  orts
Courtesy to the Alligator
Sam Monarch (left), a 17-year-old Hands for Love attendee, has his prosthetic adjusted by Jessica Ber-
gau, a 21-year-old UF zoology junior and president of Generational Relief in Prosthetics (GRiP).
They just received $500TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-20-15-23-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYPlace an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $595
00 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
Designated drivers are the greatest
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Designated drivers are the greatest
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
13 Wanted 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-
ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
1-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatestFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The Florida women's 
basketball team has spent time volunteering at UF Health Shands Hospital.Read the story on pg. 16.By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
With Ben Simmons in the 
rearview mirror until Florida and 
LSU meet again on Feb. 27,  the 
Gators will hit the road for the first of two consecutive South-eastern-Conference matchups.
Florida travels to College Sta-
tion, Texas, for a matchup with No. 15 Texas A&M tonight at 7 in Reed Arena. This will be the Gators’ fourth game this season 
against a top-25 opponent. So 
far, they are 0-3.
And this contest will be no 
easier. 
The Aggies have won six 
games in a row and are 13-2 in-
cluding an SEC-best 3-0 confer-
ence record. They boast the con-ference's second-best field-goal percentage at 47.3 percent — be-
hind only No. 14 Kentucky — 
along with the third-best three-point percentage at 38.3 percent.
 Florida (10-5, 2-1 SEC) ranks last in the conference in both of 
those categories.
TAMU freshman center Tyler 
Davis is averaging 11.1 points 
per game and leads the SEC in 
field-goal percentage (67.8). Se-
nior forward Jalen Jones is an-other intimidating force down low for the Aggies. Jones scores a team-best 16.8 points per game 
and is also the team’s leading re-
bounder, grabbing 6.6 boards per game.
In its last game away from 
home, Florida was throttled by Tennessee, another dangerous conference team. But if the Gators have shown anything so far this year, it’s that they can make life 
difficult for high-scoring teams by playing strong defense.
UF coach Mike White said the 
team has also learned a lot about 
how to handle away-game envi-ronments while maintaining a 
high level of intensity.
“The biggest thing that we 
learned, if you look at our road 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
'Bama wins national championship
The Alabama Crimson Tide defeated the Clemson Tigers 45-40 on Monday 
night in the College Football Playoff Championship.Gators continue conference play against surging Aggies
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White walks onto the court prior to Florida's 68-62 win over LSU on Jan. 9, 2016, in the 
O'Connell Center.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
One year and five days ago, Justin Leon 
led Shawnee Community College with 18 
points and 10 rebounds, finishing second 
in field goal attempts for the Saints in 
their loss to Southwestern Illinois.
This year, as a junior college transfer 
for Florida, Leon is averaging just under 
three shot attempts per game. 
His scoring average (3.9 points per 
game) has dwindled from last season, and 
he’s playing the sixth-fewest minutes on the team at 10.4 per game.
So, the day after Leon broke out against 
LSU on Saturday, scoring 14 points and grabbing nine rebounds in just his third start at UF, one of Florida’s staff members 
advised coach Mike White to look for any 
signs of laziness from Leon in practice and to make sure success isn’t getting to the junior’s head.
White smiled.
“Yesterday, he’s out there winning 
wind-sprints,” the coach said.Leon played the fourth-most minutes 
of any Florida player in the win over the Tigers on Saturday and frequently found 
himself guarding LSU’s star freshman Ben Simmons.
Leon held his own, playing solid pe-
rimeter defense, diving after loose balls and fighting for rebounds in the paint.
The coaching staff 
has been impressed with 
Leon’s work ethic ever since he was promoted to the starting lineup on 
Jan. 2 against Georgia.
“(He’s) competing at the highest lev-
el,” White said. “That’s what he is... I'll 
be surprised if (he) gets out of character."
Hill's move a mixed bag:
After UF’s 66-55 loss to Miami on Dec. 
8, Kasey Hill needed a change.
The junior point guard spoke to White 
and asked if he could be removed from the starting lineup and instead come off JUCO transfer earning minutes TAMU has won six in  a row
ROWLAND GAINED EXPERIENCE 
IN UF'S SEASON-OPENING WIN.
By Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
With one meet under their belts, UF coach 
Jenny Rowland and her team can finally take 
a step back and breathe.
Season-opening meets don’t normally 
come with a great deal of pressure in gymnas-
tics, a sport in which you’re expected to be far 
from perfect early on and one that doesn’t re-gard regular season wins and losses with too much significance.
But this season is different for the Gators.Losing former coach Rhonda Faehn has 
created an enormous amount of change for a program coming off of three consecutive na-tional titles, and it has made helping the gym-
nasts adapt to change — as well as determin-
ing what not to change — Rowland’s number one priority.
The transition has been smooth through-
out the offseason, but nothing can replace a first experience together under the competi-tion's lights like Friday night’s win over Texas Woman’s University.
The win and the performance weren’t the 
important elements, though.
The most crucial element was the coach 
and athletes beginning to figure each other out.
“This was a first of many firsts,” Row-
land said of the meet. “This was the first time they’ve been in a competition with myself. It’s the first time I was able to observe how they compete, what their little quirks are.
“It was just a great experience overall.”
While the coach and her team have gotten 
to know each other over the past few months, 
the meet marked Rowland's first taste of live Florida gymnastics still 
adapting to new coachSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 14 SEE GYM,  PAGE 14BASKETBALL NOTEBOOK
“This was a first of many firsts. This 
was the first time they’ve been in a 
competition with myself. It’s the first 
time I was able to observe how they 
compete, what their little quirks are."
Jenny Rowland
UF gymnastics coach
Leon
the bench.
In Florida’s next game against then-No.1 Mich-
igan State, Hill tallied his highest point total in 
nearly three weeks, finishing with 13 points on 
5-of-11 shooting and a season-high four steals.
His next two games were similar, as the guard 
shot 50 percent with eight assists in the Gators’ 
win over Oklahoma State and then made 60 per-
cent of his attempts along with six assists in an 89-65 drubbing of Jacksonville.
“I don’t know if it took pressure off of him, if it 
allowed him to see the game from a front row seat 
before he got into the game, watch the flow of the 
game before he experienced the flow,” White said of Hill’s move to the bench. 
“Whatever factors led to that, he definitely 
played better there.”
But in Florida’s last few games, Hill has fallen 
off. 
The best he has shot from the field since UF’s 
win over Jacksonville has been a 42.9 percent per-
formance against Florida State. 
Since then, the junior has made just three of his 
last 20 shots.
“We hope we can get him back to playing well 
(tonight),” White said.
White hoping effort no longer an issue:
After its poor performance against Tennessee, White was more than pleased with UF’s effort against LSU.
Following the win, the coach said the Gators 
played the hardest he’s seen them play all season.
But White still isn’t sure if Florida has learned 
its lesson: It must sustain that level of effort every game if it hopes to have a chance of winning.
“I think we’re asking them to play at such a 
high level of intensity because we’re masking some offensive deficiencies,” White said. “We 
can’t afford to have a C game defensively and on 
the glass because we’re not good enough offen-sively right now.”
White said the Gators fell into complacency ear-
ly in the season after making 15 of their 29 three-pointers against North Carolina A&T on Nov. 16. 
With their shots falling, not much defense was 
required in Florida’s 104-54 rout of the Bulldogs.
“It would be insane for us to think that we can 
count on that happening (every game),” White said.14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
White said Gators grew complacent 
after win against North Carolina A&T
Florida's Leon is shooting 63.2 percent in last three startsUF faces six top-16 teamsNOTEBOOK,  from pg 13
action with her new UF team, and 
more importantly, her team got its first taste of how the coach handles that live action with something actu-ally at stake.
For a group of athletes used to do-
ing things a certain way under Faehn — with great success — discovering 
how different Rowland’s methods 
would look out on the competition floor was an important and stressful step.
“(In) training, they know who I 
am, I know who they are” Rowland 
said. “But it’s always new when you 
get out on the competition floor.”
After Friday’s win, though, the 
gymnasts got a feel for how competi-tions will be handled and what they can expect in the future.With that out of the way, Florida 
can now shift its focus away from 
procedural changes and onto some-
thing much more fun: competing.
“I think for them now moving 
forward, they can just completely relax,” Rowland said, “enjoy what they love doing, have a good time and improve upon what was already a great meet.”
The team won’t be able to relax 
too much, however, particularly as the season slate gets much more daunting.
With a stretch of six straight 
meets against teams ranked in the top 16, the Gators will have every opportunity to measure themselves against the best teams in the coun-try.
And with the first meet out of the 
way, that’s where Florida can shift its focus.GYM,  from pg 13Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
Alex McMurtry performs her balance beam routine during Florida's 
win against Georgia on Jan. 30, 2015, in the O'Connell Center.
games against the best opponents, the 
highest of quality opponents that we’ve played, our best performance was against 
(then-No.1) Michigan State,” White said. 
“That was a game we simply battled. 
We played as hard as any game we’ve 
played all year. That’s the intensity we’ll 
have to match, most importantly, before 
we talk about doing anything else.”Florida’s offense is the “anything else.” 
Although the Gators have struggled to shoot the basketball, there have been re-cent signs of improvement and develop-
ment within the offense.
Junior forward Justin Leon has stepped 
up since being inserted into the starting 
lineup Jan. 2 against Georgia. Leon has shot 63.2 percent from the field in the last 
three games in which he’s started, includ-
ing a career-best 14 points in Florida’s win over LSU on Saturday.
“Justin Leon is Justin Leon," White said. “That’s what he is. He doesn’t have the most God-given ability on our team, but he’ll continue to be a blue-collar work-er for us.”
So as the Gators head to the Lone Star State, they’ll try to bring that blue-collar mentality with them. 
They face a well balanced, offensive-
ly-sound Texas A&M team with a lot of 
weapons that sits atop the SEC standings. 
As redshirt junior DeVon Walker said, 
Florida can’t back down.
“They’re a very, very good team,” 
Walker said of the Aggies. 
“The only way that we will have a 
chance is if we come out and throw the 
first punch and we go out there aggressive in everything that we do.”HOOPS,  from pg 13Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Justin Leon corrals a rebound during Florida's 68-62 win over LSU on Jan. 9, 2016, in 
the O'Connell Center.
"W e played as hard as any game we’ve 
played all year. That’s the intensity 
we’ll have to match, most importantly, 
before we talk about doing anything 
else.”
Mike White
UF men's basketball coach"I think we’re asking them to play at such a 
high level of intensity because we’re masking 
some offensive deficiencies. W e can’t afford 
to have a C game defensively and on the glass 
because we’re not good enough offensively right 
now.”
Mike White
UF men's basketball coachTUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
The first round of the NFL Playoffs is in the 
books, and there were plenty of former Florida 
players that took part in the Wild Card Round. 
Jordan Reed and the Washington Redskins 
fell to the Green Bay Packers 35-18 at FedEx-
Field. Reed led the Redskins with nine catches 
for 120 yards and hauled in the lone passing touchdown from Washington quarterback Kirk Cousins. 
The former Florida tight end also made a 
highlight-reel one-handed catch in the second quarter on what could have been a pick-six by Green Bay cornerback Casey Hayward. Reed capped off the drive when he caught a 24-yard 
touchdown pass to put the Redskins up 11-0. 
Former Gator wide receiver and now-con-
verted Washington defensive back Quinton 
Dunbar had five tackles in the game as well. 
However, both players’ efforts were for 
naught, as the Packers came back and elimi-nated the Redskins, ending Reed’s and Dun-bar’s seasons. 
Sharrif Floyd’s standout game over-
shadowed: Minnesota Vikings defensive tack-le Sharrif Floyd had an impressive game in his playoff debut. 
After finishing the regular season with 34 
tackles and 2.5 sacks, the 6-foot-3, 311-pound defensive lineman had three tackles, two of them for a loss, and one sack against the two-time defending NFC champion Seattle Se-ahawks. 
The Vikings had control for most of the 
game, but after blowing a 9-0 lead, it came down to kicker Blair Walsh attempting a chip-shot field goal that would’ve sent Minnesota to face the Carolina Panthers. But Walsh missed the field goal wide left, ending Floyd’s and the Vikings’ season with a 10-9 loss.
Reggie Nelson has hair pulled on side-
lines: In one of the most bizarre playoff games 
in recent history, former Florida safety and current Cincinnati Bengal Reggie Nelson was involved in a sideline dust-up with a coach.
In the first quarter of Pittsburgh’s 18-16 
win, Nelson made a tackle on the sideline. Fol-lowing the play, Steelers offensive line coach 
Mike Munchak appeared to pull Nelson’s hair. 
Nelson reacted by pushing Munchak, and the Pittsburgh assistant coach was flagged for an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty. 
The Pro-Bowl safety finished the game with 
three tackles and one sack. Along the defen-sive line, fellow Bengal Carlos Dunlap had one tackle and 0.5 sacks. Pittsburgh offensive tackle Marcus Gilbert 
started and played every down, and the Steel-ers will be moving on to face the Denver Bron-cos in the Divisional Round. 
Divisional Round matchups: The sec-
ond round of the playoffs gets underway on Saturday at 4:35 p.m. when the Kansas City Chiefs take on the New England Patriots. The Pats have just one active former Gator on their roster: linebacker Jon Bostic. The Packers will 
be taking on the Arizona Cardinals at 8:15 p.m. 
on Saturday, and only Arizona offensive tackle D.J. Humphries has any ties to Florida.
On Sunday, the Seahawks will travel to Car-
olina to face the Panthers at 1:05 p.m., while the Broncos, with three former Gators on their roster (Andre Caldwell, Lerentee McCray and Max Garcia) host the Steelers at 4:40 p.m.Reed, Floyd shine in first round of playoffs despite losses
THE LIST INCLUDED 
THREE FIRST-TEAM AND 
TWO SECOND-TEAM 
SELECTIONS.
By Patrick Pinak
Alligator Staff Writer
@Pinakk12
 
The preseason awards are 
starting to pour in for Florida’s baseball team.
Five Gators were named to 
Perfect Game’s 2016 Preseason All-American Teams, including three first-teamers: outfielder Buddy Reed and pitchers A.J. Puk and Logan Shore.
First baseman Peter Alonso 
and catcher/designated hitter JJ Schwarz garnered second-team honors.
UF’s five chosen players were 
second to only Louisville, which had six picked.
Reed, a 6-foot-4 switch-hitting 
junior, is coming off a 2015 sea-son in which he hit .305 and led Florida in hits (86). The speedster also swiped 18 bases last season, good for second on the team.
One of the hardest throw-
ing pitchers in the country, Puk struck out a team-best 104 batters and posted a 3.81 ERA through 78 innings pitched last year. The 
6-foot-7 junior from Cedar Rap-
ids, Iowa, also held opponents to a .210 batting average, fourth best among Southeastern Confer-ence pitchers.
As Florida’s ace, Shore com-
piled an 11-6 record in 112.1 in-nings pitched. The junior was consistent throughout the sea-
son, as his 2.72 ERA ranked sixth 
among SEC pitchers.
Schwarz could’ve just as eas-
ily been named to the first-team for his freshman season last year. The Palm Beach Gardens, Flor-ida, native hit .332 and slugged 18 home runs and 73 RBI, fourth and third most in the nation, re-
spectively.
Alonso, whose 2015 season 
was hindered early because of a 
foot injury, still produced well for the Gators. The junior hit .301 and tallied five homers and 32 RBI in just 39 games.Five UF baseball players named preseason All-Americans AP Photo
Washington Redskins tight end Jordan Reed (86) pushes back Green Bay Packers free safety Ha Ha Clinton-Dix (21) during the 
first half of an NFL wild card playoff football game in Landover, Md., Sunday, Jan. 10, 2016.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
UF’s Buddy Reed slides home during Florida’s NCAA regional win against Florida A&M on May 29, 2015.
GATORS IN THE NFL16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 12, 2016
THE WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
TEAM VISITS SHANDS HOSPITAL 
TO SPEND TIME WITH CHILDREN. 
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
    Head coach Amanda Butler has long 
said that one of the most important things 
she does as a coach is develop good people — not just good basketball players.  
     One of the ways she does that is by 
getting her team involved in the Gainesville community.
In the wake of Florida’s No. 20 ranking 
in this week’s AP poll, Butler’s desire to de-velop her players as people rather than as athletes is likely to be overlooked. 
But for Florida’s coach and several team 
members, giving to others overshadows any record, ranking or form of recognition.
      
Among the places that the Florida team 
volunteers are UF Health Shands Hospital and Girl’s Place, an after-school program in north Gainesville dedicated to improving the 
lives of young girls in the community. 
According to Girl’s Place Executive Direc-
tor Janna Magette, this is far from mandatory 
volunteering.
“Haley Lorenzen and Carlie Needles, 
they’ve both been up here on their own in-
dividually to be guest speakers in our lead-
ership program, so they’ve done their own thing,” she said.
“And then Brooke Copeland had kinda 
formed a special bond with one of our girls who has Down syndrome.”
In addition to Lorenzen, Needles and Co-
peland, the whole team holds a basketball clinic with Girl’s Place, gives the organiza-tion blocks of tickets for home games and takes fundraiser winners from the organiza-tion on trips to away games. 
Other UF teams including the volleyball, 
lacrosse, soccer and softball programs have all visited the facilities. 
The women’s tennis, women’s golf and 
gymnastics teams have also supported Girl’s Place by donating silent auction items. 
But the bond shared with the women’s 
basketball team in particular is special, in part because Magette was the director of operations for Florida’s women’s basketball team for six years before ending up at Girl’s Place. 
When she landed at the after-school pro-
gram, she made the organization’s already-strong relationship with the women’s ath-letic programs at UF stronger.
When the team visits the facilities, Mag-
ette said that its activities are not limited to the court. 
“They go and read in the classroom with 
the girls or help them with homework,” she 
said. 
And when the Gators aren’t visiting Girl’s 
Place, Girl’s Place comes to them. 
“We brought a group of our middle 
schoolers over to practice, and they got to meet with the team’s leadership group that 
coach Butler meets with, so that was a pretty 
unique experience,” Magette said.
Unsurprisingly, their relationship only 
grew stronger.
“They got to be in the locker room at the 
O’Dome and got to ask them questions. They even took evaluation notes with the players 
during practice, so it was a cool one-on-one 
opportunity, a little more intimate setting.”
While this involvement may seem sec-
ondary to the results on the hardwood, But-
ler feels that the importance of building her 
players as people cannot be understated. 
“It’s just essential,” Butler said.
“We live in a community that supports us 
so very well, and it’s a privilege for us to have that level of support. We want to do 
everything that we can to let the community 
know that we care about their respectable 
organization or having an opportunity to im-
pact a young girl’s life or maybe getting them 
ﬁ  red up about basketball at an early age. So 
it’s a big, big part of what we do.”
Butler added that all of her players are 
“very complete in the way that they live their 
lives,” which is evident considering the vol-
unteer work that they do.
    That volunteer work is clearly an area 
that’s important to Butler and the UF wom-
en’s basketball team, even though most of 
the attention they garner will be about their 
success on the court.
     But come the end of the season or 
even the end of these players’ careers, they’ll 
have more than basketball to look back on 
and smile about.Building a bond: Florida volunteers time to community
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF guard Brooke Copeland drives into the paint during Florida’s win against Savannah State on Nov. 24 in the O’Connell Center.
