We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 168 THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
Florida football holds Media Day
CeCe Jefferson, others preview the season, 
pg. 18
Combating the Zika virus
Experts provide recommendations, pg. 5
UF student creates eco-friendly dog toys
The rope toys are made out of old T-shirts and tennis balls, pg. 8Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
The corridor of University Avenue between 13th 
Street and Main Street will undergo major construc-
tion. 
As plans are published for multistory buildings to 
go up in the next two years, local businesses are say-
ing farewell to the communities they founded. 
Innovation Square, owned by UF, sold its property 
to build new ofﬁ  ce buildings, hotels and housing, said 
Lee Nelson, the director of the real estate ofﬁ  ce for In-novation Square. 
The block that currently houses the Uniﬁ  ed Train-
ing Center, The Jam and Addiction Tattoos — as well as the houses behind it — should undergo construc-tion by the end of 2016, he said. 
Some residents who see the buildings as commu-
nity space are not happy about these changes. 
Lilli Wiggins, the previous manager of the Uniﬁ  ed 
Training Center, founded the center with her husband 17 years ago. The building has been in Gainesville since the ’50s and always served a purpose, she said.
“Every time I walked in there it just had this en-
ergy,” she said. “I hate to say it’s a building — it had a life of its own, and it touched so many people’s lives.”
Wiggins said her biggest complaint is the new 
building plans don’t offer anywhere for the commu-nity to play. 
Although there is still no ofﬁ  cial notice to vacate, 
it’s been public knowledge that the building was even-tually going to be torn down for two years, she said. She said the center lost a lot of business as a result. Last Saturday, the business closed its doors for good.
Steve Solomon, the owner of Leonardo’s By the 
Slice and Leonardo’s 706, said he is not closing, de-spite the rumors. 
Although UF has purchased his property, there are 
no plans to demolish the buildings. 
If they close, he said, it will be from people be-
lieving the rumor his buildings are shutting down and choosing to spend money elsewhere.
Ultimately it’s up to the customers, he said.“I’ve done the arithmetic,” he said. “People going 
to Chipotle is not going to save local businesses.”
The Jam ofﬁ  cially closed in May. When it opened in 
2012, it was supposed to be open for only six months to run out a previous lease, said Eduardo “Eddy” Reyes, The Jam’s co-owner. He said the owners knew from the beginning the building would be demolished.
Reyes said the true loss was the houses behind The 
Jam, as they were some of the oldest and most historic in town. 
“It’s hard to feel nostalgic about something that 
you knew was going to happen from the get-go,” he said, “but I will miss The Jam as a place for the com-munity to enjoy live music.” 
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.orgLocals say 
goodbye to University Ave. 
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
An incoming Gator has turned her 
high school project into a corporation for 
hospital patients.
Code Gray was established in April to 
teach patients how to advocate for them-selves, said Bailey Rhodes, the project’s founder.
The 18-year-old UF biology freshman 
created notebooks with different sections where patients can ﬁ  le all of their medical information.
“You can keep track of any medica-
tions you’re on, lab results, physician vis-its, notes and questions you might want to remember to ask,” she said. “It’s all in one place so that it’s easy to keep up with.”
Rhodes has personal experience with 
medical information and hospital inter-actions. She spent nearly two-and-a-half years in the hospital after being diagnosed with bone cancer, and then leukemia.
Rhodes said she began to document 
her own medical information in 2012 when she was admitted to the hospital for dehydration and a nurse had to access her IV port.
Rhodes had previously been told only 
1-inch needles worked for her port. The nurse had difﬁ  culty getting to the port, so Rhodes asked if she was using the right 
needle.
The next day, Rhodes said she was 
marked as an unruly patient, also known 
as a “Code Gray.”
As a result, Rhodes said she and her 
parents recorded any administration in journals.
“I felt like I was more in control if I 
knew exactly what was going on,” she 
said.
She developed Code Gray as a project 
for a nursing assistant class.
“It kind of just grew from there,” 
Rhodes said. “I would hear different sto-
ries from other people saying they wish they had it when they were in the hos-pital.”
Two months before starting the proj-
ect, she found out she was accepted to UF. Freshman creates medical project
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
A NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM
Jen Davis of The Murder Mystery Company, playing Amanda Lay, asks the crowd whether they should execute the 
prime suspect: attendee Antonio T oupin, playing Gus the Milkman. The 1927 murder mystery took place at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Aug. 3.
SEE GRAY,  PAGE 4It helps hospital patients
“I felt like I was more in control if I 
knew exactly what was going on.”
Bailey Rhodes
founder of Code GraySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  73°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Gator Summer Orchestra Concert 
today
UF’s School of Music presents the 
final Gator Summer Orchestra 
concert today at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. The Gator Summer Orchestra, fund-
ed by the Office of the Provost 
as part of Creative B, is entirely student run and is comprised of UF students, local high school and middle school students and 
Gainesville community mem-
bers. Come and enjoy the Gator Summer Orchestra’s second and final concert of the summer! 
The event is free and open to the 
public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
‘Creating Mobile Games’
“Creating Mobile Games” is a course offered during Creative B to introduce students to con-ceptualizing, developing and 
implementing their own mobile 
games. This showcase will share the work of the class Friday from 11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. at the Digital World’s Institute’s REVE 
in Norman Gym. The event is 
free and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. 
in UF's Entomology Building, 
located at 1881 Natural Area 
Drive, in Room 1031. The club 
is open to everyone. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org or the Talking Gators 
Facebook group page. "The mis-
sion of Toastmasters is to pro-
vide a supportive and positive learning experience in which 
members are empowered to de-
velop communication and lead-
ership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth."
Global Culture Photography 
ContestIf you are a UF student, fac-ulty, staff or alumni traveling abroad, or if you are a UF in-ternational student or scholar, you are eligible to enter the 2016 Global Culture Photography Competition. Judges will award a first-, second- and third-place winner in each of the four cat-egories. First-prize winners will each receive $100, second-prize winners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will receive 
$25. A total of $525 will be 
awarded. No photographic expe-
rience is required, just a love of snapping pictures and a yearn-ing to explore! The submission 
period opens Aug. 8. Entries 
must be received no later than 
Oct. 7. For more information, visit ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 168
THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
DRAGON RISES
•�College  of Oriental Medicine •
ACUPUNCTURE...
Masters Degree Program
www.dragonrises.eduVisit our COLLEGE and CLINICHave you ever thought about 
how it works or what it can treat?
Accredited by ACAOM
Licensed No. 2425 the Florida 
Commission for Independent EducationGainesville, FL (352) 371-2833
ACUPUNCTURE...
$10 OFF
With This Ad!
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍
龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍龍龍升醫學院龍升醫學院龍升醫學院
$10 off 
for new patients with couponAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Children play in the water of the park’s “Adventure Play Area. ” The 
park has a play area about the size of a football ﬁ  eld, said Ivan Oel-rich, the president of Oelrich Construction and the construction manager of the park.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Depot Park, located at 201 SE Depot Ave., held a soft opening on Monday and will be celebrating its grand opening on Aug. 20. The park cost $5.9 million to build.
LOCAL
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Depot Park, located at 201 SE 
Depot Ave., opened Monday and 
is already drawing in more visitors 
than expected.
“It’s the Central Park of 
Gainesville,” said Sarah Vidal-
Finn, the interim director for the 
Gainesville Community Redevelop-
ment Agency.
Vidal-Finn said the main goal 
was to take a useless space and make it a place the community can 
enjoy. 
“You can make something in-credible, beautiful and fun out of 
nothing,” she said.
She said the budget for the park 
was $5.9 million.
“It’s the largest undertaking the 
CRA has taken on,” she said, “and 
probably the city as a whole.”
Vidal-Finn said the park includes 
a historic rehabilitation project of 
the train depot. The building was restored as close to the original as 
possible, down to the paint color. 
The building will be home to a 
Pop-A-Top convenience store and 
eventually a restaurant, Vidal-Finn 
said.
The park is a huge asset to the community, said Ivan Oelrich, the 
president of Oelrich Construction 
and the construction manager of 
the park. 
The park has a play area the 
size of a football ﬁ  eld that includes 
a splash zone, he said. 
Construction for a science mu-
seum has already begun in another 
area of the park, Oelrich said. It will be named after Robert Cade, the in-
ventor of Gatorade, and should be 
completed in the fall of 2017.
Guests have been ﬂ  ooding the 
park since the construction fences 
started coming down, he said. 
“We knew it was going to be popular,” he said, “but wow, this 
is incredible.” 
Shirley Truman went to the 
park for the ﬁ  rst time Wednesday with her daughter and grandson. 
The Gainesville resident said 
her 4-year-old grandson, Roland, was having a blast and didn’t want to leave. 
“It’s free, and that’s awesome,” 
she said. “It’s a really nice place, 
and I hope people don’t abuse it.”
Truman said they stayed at the 
park for almost three hours and 
had to reapply sunscreen three 
times. 
“I think all of it is my favorite,” Roland said. 
Truman said she has a pool but 
it’s fun to try something new.
“It’s the ﬁ  rst trip of many,” she 
said. 
The park will host its grand 
opening Aug. 20 from 9 a.m. to 
noon. The event will include food, games, a photo booth and a Snap-chat ﬁ  lter, along with a detailed history of the park. 
“It will be a day full of commu-
nity and fun,” Vidal-Finn said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org Depot Park opens, features play area and splash zone 4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
“I think I cried a little bit just be-
cause I was so happy,” she said. “I’m 
kind of hoping I’ll meet people at UF 
that have different connections to make 
Code Gray as big as I hope for it to be.”
Her mother, Beth Rhodes, said al-
though she’s worried for Bailey to go 
away to college, she believes she will 
do wonderful things.
“She’s overcome all of the challeng-
es that she’s faced,” Beth Rhodes said. “I think this is a path she was supposed to take because she’s going to do some-thing big with her life.”
Each notebook costs $4 to make, 
but Rhodes said she freely gives them to whoever asks.
She said nearly 50 notebooks have 
been given out so far.
“It was funny; we met up with an 
accountant last week for advice,” Beth Rhodes said. “He asked if she wanted to make any money from this, and she said no. She really just wants to help 
people from this.” GRAY,  from pg. 1She wants to turn the project into a nonproit organization
Courtesy to the Alligator
Bailey Rhodes, an 18-year-old 
UF biology freshman, founded 
Code Gray, which allows 
patients to ﬁ  ll out and ﬁ  le 
their own medical information. 
“You can keep track of any 
medications you’re on, lab 
results, physician visits, notes 
and questions you might want 
to remember to ask, ” she said. 
“It’s all in one place so that it’s 
easy to keep up with. ”
THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
With tears streaming down their 
faces, Antonio Mason’s family mem-
bers spoke about the kindness of their brother and son at a press con-ference Tuesday.
The message was simple: If any-
one knows anything about Antonio Mason’s death, he or she should come forward.
“Tony was a real good person, 
y’all,” said 36-year-old Alonzo Ma-
son, Antonio’s brother. “Everybody 
that knew him loved him. He just had an attachment with so many dif-ferent people.”
On July 27, armed, masked home 
invaders shot and killed Antonio Mason, 35, at a family gathering, ac-cording to a press release. He was carrying his 11-month-old daughter, Zy’mya. The infant was shot in the arm, but she is alive.
At the press conference, Antonio 
Mason’s brother, Adaryll Ferguson, held Zy’mya as he spoke about the family’s struggles.
“I want you to look at my niece; 
I want you to look at what they did to her,” he said. “If you are out there watching, and you know the people responsible for this, quit holding it in. Make a phone call, let somebody know. Turn these cowards in.”
Antonio Mason’s mother, Judy 
Mason, talked about how her son moved to Gainesville and started turning over a new leaf.
“He was getting a good job, he 
was getting to see his kids; every-thing was coming together for him,” she said.Gainesville Police spokesman Of-
ficer Ben Tobias said the people who killed Antonio Mason have not been found yet.
“We are expending every re-
source we have available to try to identify and capture those respon-sible for this horrendous act of vio-lence,” Tobias said.
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org
Family seeks answers for Antonio Mason’s death
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer
The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention gave millions to 40 states after the first cases of Zika virus transmitted through infected mosquitoes were reported in Miami-Dade County.
The CDC awarded the Florida Department 
of Health $720,000 to help detect serious birth defects linked to the Zika virus, Bert Kelly, a CDC spokesman, wrote in an email.
The CDC distributed $16 million between 
40 states and territories, making Florida one of the four states to receive the highest amount of funding, Kelly said. 
Until the cases reported in Miami, all Zika 
cases in the U.S. were travel-related. 
“The Florida Department of Health has 
identified an area in one neighborhood of Miami where Zika is being spread by mosquitoes,” Kelly said.
Due to the living conditions in the U.S., it’s 
not likely there will be a big, sustained Zika outbreak, Kelly said.
“We are working hard to learn more about 
Zika, and although we cannot rule out the possibility of a large outbreak in an urban area, everything we have seen so far suggests that this would be unlikely,” Kelly said.
Multiple factors control how this virus will 
spread, said Roberto Pereira, a nematology and entomology scientist at UF.
“It all depends on how the state responds to 
these cases and how the population in general responds to these cases,” he said. “There’s a lot that needs to be done by the people in Florida themselves by preventing the breeding of mosquitoes in their backyards.” 
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.org Residents can help prevent spread of Zika virus
RECOMMENDATIONS 
FOR PREVENTING ZIKA
• Remove standing water in backyards 
to prevent mosquitoes from breed-
ing
• Wear long-sleeve shirts and pants 
when outdoors during dawn or dusk 
• Use mosquito repellent when 
outside
Source: Roberto PereiraThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnIt’s time for change
Governance can be difﬁ  cult. There are many different 
competing interests to bear in mind. So, what’s the 
best way to maintain all of this? Transparency.
On June 25, the UF Supreme Court met on the 
Saturday evening of the week-long break between 
Summer A and Summer B and struck a ruling that not only 
sent much of the Student Body reeling on its heels, but also UF 
senators and other SG ofﬁ  cials.
The court called into question Article VIII Section 4, which 
states, “three-ﬁ  fths approval vote of those voting in the spring 
general election,” is needed to ratify constitutional amend-ments. The court says given Section 4’s plain meaning, “those 
voting in the spring general election” should be deﬁ  ned by the 
“total ballots cast.”
So, before 2008, “total ballots cast” only included yes and 
no votes, according to the court. Now, all ballots, includ-
ing those partially left blank on certain amendments, will be counted as well.
Based on the court’s public opinion and the June 25 meet-
ing minutes the Alligator obtained, we have several concerns. First, the court’s interpretation, albeit legitimate and proce-dural, is a very formalist interpretation in that it only pays attention to the text of the Constitution, leaving no room for 
interpretation.
We at the Alligator would strongly argue that the policy 
effects and political implications of a court ruling should be 
considered. The politics of the court’s decision are too impor-tant to be left unconsidered.
Online voting was the biggest issue of Spring 2016 at UF. 
It had bipartisan support during the election, and substantial support and advocacy from the Student Body, with 68 percent approval from those who voted on the amendment.
If a ruling carries that much political weight and affects 
past amendments, we should have had more extensive delib-eration than a 44-minute court meeting on an empty Saturday evening.
“With great power comes great responsibility.” This isn’t 
just a cool Spider-Man quote. It’s a commitment on SG’s web-site, claiming the organization has “a great responsibility to lead with the best interests of every Gator at heart and inform every one about the progress of this organization.”
Judging from senators’ outrage in their ﬁ  rst meeting after 
the June 25 decision, transparency was not a priority, even within SG. Furthermore, given how the court ruled unani-mously without seriously considering the political conse-quences — as shown by the meeting minutes — the “best interests of every Gator” were not kept at heart.
There are other ramiﬁ  cations as well. The point of an ab-
stention vote is to withdraw your voice from a certain Student Senate position or amendment vote. But now that total ballots will be counted equally, if a student gets a ballot but skips the questions about the amendments, his or her vote will be 
counted against the bills.
The Supreme Court has not done anything outside the 
bounds of the Constitution. But we feel students need a clear 
sign, not just rhetoric, that SG as a whole is making stronger efforts toward transparency.
If we are to see change in our SG, the Student Body must 
take action once again. In the last SG elections, about 10,000 students went to the polls, meaning about 40,000 did not.
It’s easy to complain about how SG handles its affairs, but 
if you wish for real change, you must vote and commit to your 
policy ﬁ  ghts, holding SG accountable. If you want change, 
take action.I could use this column to tell you how much 
I love Gainesville and the surrounding 
areas — places where you can swim in a 
cave at Devil’s Den, join the drunken zoo that is Midtown or watch thousands of bats 
ﬂ  y into the sunset at UF’s Bat Barn and Bat House. 
I could tell you about my two years at UF, 
a place that endowed me with many keys to success (shoutout to DJ Khaled, despite his sad performance at Big Orange Festival). 
However, with graduation in less than a 
week, and with time to reﬂ  ect on my experi-ences as a Gator and an Alligator crime reporter, metro editor and editor-in-chief, I feel there is more I could share with you, our dear readers.
Lately, I have noticed a common theme in the world. 
It wasn’t so obvious when I spent much of my time avoiding serious injury during weekend antics at Florida Gulf Coast University, or even when I, somehow, en-rolled at UF. 
As I progressed in Gainesville and put more energy 
into becoming a journalist, I was thrust into the public sphere. That’s when I noticed a theme that permeates our society: blame. 
Professors in UF’s College of Journalism and Commu-
nications are a harsh bunch, as they should be. These are people who truly believe skilled journalists are an important component of a well-functioning democracy. 
Still, some students blame the professors for their own 
failures. While I had one instructor who I believe should re-evaluate his or her teaching methods and, quite frank-ly, his or her attitude, I stayed strong and did everything possible to pass. 
Some of my peers did not pass, and some believed it 
was the result of an instructor whom they called sexist, incompetent, spiteful, etc. 
When I earned my ﬁ  rst job at the Alligator, the edi-
tors would sometimes change my articles so much they 
were barely recognizable in the end. “They don’t get it,” I would start to think, blaming them for being 
picky when I actually needed to improve — a 
lot. 
If you can’t relate to journalism drama, then 
just look to the current presidential election. 
It’s hard to go one day without hearing some-one blame their peers for simply being a Demo-
crat or a Republican. 
As someone who has written and edited 
hundreds of articles, and whose email is read-
ily found online, I have received more than 
enough messages blaming “the media” for be-
ing downright evil. 
I’m here to tell you, dear readers, that we can all do 
better. Professors aren’t plotting your demise at the din-ner table, the Alligator isn’t drafting some sinister agenda 
at its meetings and your neighbor’s political beliefs aren’t 
pulling us into an inevitable apocalypse. 
I can tell you we at the Alligator make regular mis-
takes, some larger than others, and that doesn’t mean we don’t care. In fact, even a misplaced comma in a sen-
tence or a missing letter in someone’s name is enough to 
keep us up at night. 
Sometimes it’s hard to remember the people around 
us are all completely human, and their faults don’t take 
away from that. 
How often do we sit down and consider why a goal 
hasn’t been reached? How often do we harshly criti-
cize others while offering no real advice or perspective? How often do we call or email someone to express our 
concerns about an issue? And how often do we even re-
search an issue or seek an expert opinion before offering our criticisms? 
Instead of always blaming others, let’s ﬁ  rst take a look 
at ourselves and decide whether we’re part of the solu-
tion.
John Dickinson said it best in his “Liberty Song”: 
“Then join in hand, brave Americans all. By uniting 
we stand, by dividing we fall.” 
Giuseppe Sabella is the editor-in-chief of the Alligator.An editor’s goodbye, a message for the world
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Giuseppe 
Sabella
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Over the past two years I’ve 
learned a lot, and it has 
been an immense privilege  
to share my opinion with 
all of you. I had my ﬁ  rst 
opinion piece published in a news-paper when I was 13, and since 
then it has always been a thrill, but 
also somewhat terrifying!
Every week I was pressed to 
come up with a piece of which I was proud. While there is certainly 
no shortage of topics, the difﬁ  cult 
part is ﬁ  nding something original to say and 
doing so in less than 650 words.
I enjoyed a wide readership and was admit-
tedly shocked strangers recognized me around 
town. I was humbled to have a dedicated 
group of followers who seldom failed to leave anonymous comments weekly. It is heartening 
to know my opinions reached those who might 
not have ever considered the world in a new 
light!
Beyond that, readers must bear in mind 
what ends up in print after I submit it reﬂ  ects 
a whole other set of editorial judgments, many 
of which are counter to what I wanted in my 
pieces.
In my columns I have dealt with two main 
themes, which overlap somewhat: our unfor-tunate American, post-modern status quo and 
the righteousness of any and every linguistic 
output.
In my view of politics, the “game” in the 
U.S. (and the world) is rigged and systemati-
cally favors some, while disenfranchising and 
crushing others. Granted, in our climate of po-litical insanity and hysteria, ampliﬁ  ed by our state-serving media, ignorance pre-vails.
Within linguistics, my view is the 
“value” of various forms of language 
has everything to do with the power 
and prestige of a speaker and very 
little to do with the actual sounds 
themselves. The liberation of mar-
ginalized groups, such as blacks, La-
tinos, queer people and women, will come with respect of their linguistic 
output and the disposal of the notion 
of a “standard English” by which to 
subjugate and scorn.
I bear an immense gratitude to all those I 
met in Gainesville, especially the stellar pro-fessors of the linguistics department and the 
other graduate students who have been great 
and inspirational friends and of whom I’m very proud. 
All the friends I made in Gainesville have 
been gems that made an already weird place all 
the more eccentric and marvelous. Love y’all.
As a ﬁ  nal farewell, I wish to exhort all those 
reading to do at least one of the following: vote 
(or don’t) per your conscience, question the 
“unquestionable,” mock the powerful, lift up 
the downtrodden, defend the dignity of every living being, protect our planet, learn a differ-
ent language, reconcile with an enemy and tell 
those you love why you love them.
I’m going to miss the heck out of Gainesville 
and its wonderful denizens, but know you’re 
destined for greatness, in whatever form it 
will take. So, as my ﬁ  nal exhortation to the 
Gator Nation, y’all keep on keeping on!
Jordan MacKenzie  is a graduating UF 
linguistics master’s student.Bidding farewell to Gainesville, UFColumn
The health of our unborn 
children is at stake — if they are born in Florida, that is. Everyone should run for the hills, aka 
somewhere that isn’t ﬂ  atland Florida. What with the sudden lightning storms that can crop up at any minute, the 14 cases of Zika infections found in the Wynwood area of Miami-Dade, the alligator attacks, the vicious road rage due to our standstill trafﬁ  c and a host of other dangerous occurrences that 
happen daily in our “sunshine” state, no-
where is safe. Even the people here have been lumped together as the crazed “Flori-da Man.” National headlines read, “Florida Man accidentally shoots himself during job interview at elementary school” and “Florida Man attempts to smoke crack in ICU, almost burns down hospital.” It’s no wonder the people here are close to self-
immolating.
Born in the great, how-humid-is-it-to-
day state, I have always noticed how Flor-
ida seems to be a hot topic in the news, more so than other states. That could be due to the saturation of local Florida news I hear, but national news stations all seem to know that the “Florida” brand — Flor-ida hurricanes, Florida alligators, Florida 
mosquitoes — is exclusive to the uniquely 
blazing state of Florida. Even when I went north to college, people from out of state seemed to know only two things about the part of Florida I hail from: crime and Pitbull. 
As one Floridian to prob-
ably another (most of us tend to stay here because the air is 
too thick and sticky to move), I 
say enough is enough. I’m sick and tired of hearing about one tragedy after another befalling (disproportionately it seems) Floridians. If I were to have a child in this environment today, 
I’d play a fun little game with him called: Guess What State. Guess where toxic algal 
blooms drive tourists away and neighbors 
into their homes, little JackJack? Florida! That’s right. Guess where Planned Par-enthood is losing funding? Florida again! Wow, you’re really good at this. Guess which great state has a law against having sexual relations with a porcupine? Florida, of course! Here’s a cookie.
After Dwyane Wade left Miami for the 
even-more-violent Chicago, I knew our state was doomed. Soon our most populous areas will be underwater, we will be forced to move or die treading water in our under-water homes and there won’t be a decent Heat player left in sight! So who’s with me? Who’s ready to say good riddance to Flori-da and hello to the Paciﬁ  c Northwest? I’ve heard the earthquakes aren’t noticeable 
in your sleep, and the bear attacks mostly 
happen in the spring. Safe travels!
Emma Green is a UF journalism junior. 
Her column appears on Thursdays.
What we have to be worried about Column
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.org
Emma Green
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
PETS
By Samantha Brittingham
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Mel Plunkett spends at least 
three hours a night braiding old T-
shirts together to make eco-friendly dog toys.
The rope toys, which take about 
45 minutes for Plunkett to make, are made and given away for free to local shelters or people who can-not afford toys for their dogs.
It all began when the 24-year-
old UF anthropology senior was on the search for the perfect compan-ion. Plunkett said she found her dog, Achilles, at the Humane So-
ciety and knew the Lab and Chow 
mix had found his home with her.
But when she was at the adop-
tion event, she said she noticed 
all the dogs that didn’t have toys. 
Only after coming across a Face-
book video tutorial did Plunkett 
decide to make her own toys and 
give them away to shelters in need.She posted her creation July 23 
in the “Free and For Sale”  Face-
book group and was immediately ﬂ  ooded with responses.
“I honestly did not think it was 
going to be that big, with over 300 likes,” Plunkett said. “I just thought someone might comment, ‘That’s great, I work at the kennel,’ or something.”
Plunkett said she still has peo-
ple reaching out, including orga-nizations that want to get some of her toys.
Suleiky Guerrero, an ambas-
sador for Plenty of Pit Bulls, was tagged in the post by a friend and reached out to Plunkett for toys.
Plenty of Pit Bulls is a nonproﬁ  t 
program run by volunteers that provides foster homes for all bul-ly breeds and tries to prepare the dogs for adoption, Guerrero said.
Unlike kennels, Plenty of Pit 
Bulls focuses on making their dogs ready for adoption, which includes making sure the dogs have a posi-tive attitude, Guerrero said.
“Dogs need mental occupation 
that encourages good behavior and a positive environment,” Guerrero said. “Toys are a way for the dogs to interact.”
The toys will always be free 
for as long as she can make them, Plunkett said.
Because the toys are free, 
though, Plunkett is accepting dona-tions of old T-shirts and new tennis balls. It takes two T-shirts to make a single toy, so Plunkett said she needs a lot of shirts.
Those looking to donate can 
reach out to Mel Plunkett through Facebook if they are interested in donating or getting toys. She said she is available most of the time this summer to collect donations and drop off toys.
Currently, there is a waitlist for 
the toys because of the high de-mand. “I thought until a pet ﬁ  nds their 
forever home, they should have some source of entertainment,” Plunkett said. 
 UF student creates dog toys for shelters, owners in need
The rope toys are eco-friendly
EDUCATION
By Maria Velandia
Alligator Contributing Writer 
This UF graduate is one of 13 
students to be accepted into a Mas-
ter of Art in Teaching (MAT) pro-gram at the American Museum of 
Natural History in New York City.
Iliya Smithka, originally from 
Silver Spring, Maryland, earned her master’s in geology from UF.
Smithka said the MAT program 
teaches those who studied earth 
science how to teach seventh- to 12th-graders.
After Smithka earns her MAT 
degree, she will teach for four years 
at a high-needs middle school or 
high school in New York City or Yonkers, wrote the manager of me-dia relations, in an email.
“I want to become an excel-
lent teacher,” wrote Smithka in an email. Smithka started the 15-month program in June.
The MAT program accepts 13 
to 15 students every year and is 
awarded through a competitive fel-
lowship program.
All coursework — online and at the museum — is provided tuition-free, and fellows receive an addi-
tional stipend for expenses, accord-
ing to the press release.
The program integrates academ-
ic theory and learning while apply-ing it to a school setting.
“In the same manner, the edu-
cation and science departments have broken the education and science divides,” said Maritza Mac-donald, the co-director of the MAT 
program.
Macdonald said the academic 
courses are co-taught between edu-
cators and scientists.
“With this effort we hope to be 
preparing the best science teachers for the neediest students,” Mac-donald said.  UF alumna accepted into New York City teaching program Courtesy to the Alligator
Achilles plays with a T-shirt rope toy handmade by his owner, Mel 
Plunkett, who began making the dog toys to donate to local shelters and other dog owners who can’t afford toys for their pets.
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Swamp Records searches for new artists
The label works with popular local bands, pg. 14THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Swamp Head to host environmental event 
The brewery teamed up with the city, pg. 12Courtesy to the Alligator
Eric André will tour throughout the state for his Florida T our, and he will have two shows in Gainesville on Friday. 
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer 
Comedian Eric André is coming to town 
to play two shows at the High Dive this 
week. 
There will be an early show and a late 
show, with doors opening at 7 p.m. for the 8:30 p.m. show and at 10:30 p.m. for the 11:30 p.m. show. André is stopping 
in Gainesville as part of his Florida Tour, which also includes shows in West Palm 
Beach, Miami, Tampa and Orlando. 
In addition to the stand-up comedy rou-
tine, the late show will include a look at the season premiere of André’s “The Eric Andre Show” on Adult Swim. Local come-
dian Heather Shaw will serve as his open-
ing act for both shows. 
André, who was born in Boca Raton, 
Florida, is the creator and host of the “The Eric Andre Show,” a talk-show parody se-ries that ﬁ  rst premiered in 2012. 
In the last few years, he has appeared 
across TV and ﬁ  lm: He’s had roles in popu-lar movies like “The Internship” and “Pop-star: Never Stop Never Stopping,” as well as playing recurring characters on “2 Broke 
Girls,” “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apartment 
23” and “Man Seeking Woman,” according to his IMDb page. 
For Friday’s shows, attendees are invit-
ed to enjoy High Dive’s beer garden, and all guests must be at least 18, unless ac-companied by a parent or guardian. 
As of press time, tickets for both shows 
are sold out.
High Dive is hosting a number of co-
medians in the coming weeks, including 
former “Saturday Night Live” cast member 
Brooks Wheelan on Sept. 15 and Robert Kelly from FX’s “Louie” on Oct. 12.  Comedian Eric André to visit High Dive
COMEDY
Courtesy to the Alligator
André, known for his appearances on FX and Adult Swim, will also debut his  
new season of “The Eric André  Show” at High Dive. 
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
 
Are you taking a late ﬁ  nal and hanging 
around this weekend? Before you head home, 
here are some things to check out around town this weekend, from food to music.
Friday
Family night at First Magnitude: A local 
brewery will welcome people of all ages on Fri-
day, when First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., will host a family night. The event will take place in the outdoor area behind the brewery, with a play area, a food truck and alcohol. The event is free and starts at 5:30 p.m. 
“Free First Fridays” at the Atlantic: The 
Atlantic, located at 15 N. Main St., will host a night of “funky sensations” Friday, with no cover, as part of their “Free First Fridays” event. The party will run from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
SaturdayOlympics watch party: Gainesville House 
of Beer, located at 19 W. University Ave., will 
hold a watch party for Team USA on Satur-day for the U.S. women’s soccer team’s match 
against France. The game starts at 4 p.m., and patrons wearing red, white and blue will re-
ceive discounted drinks. Free pizza will also be 
served at halftime. 
Burlesque show for charity: Gainesville’s 
Mischievous Madams Burlesque Troupe will perform a tribute to “The Wizard of Oz” on Saturday at Market Street Pub & Cabaret, locat-ed at 112 SW First Ave. A portion of the show’s proceeds will go to EARS Animal Sanctuary, a nonproﬁ  t that cares for abused and endan-
gered animals. Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 10 p.m. show, and tickets are $10 at the door. 
Sunday 
Dining at Depot: Depot Park, located at 200 
SE Depot Ave., will host a number of popular food trucks this weekend, including Cilantro Tacos, Tropical Sno, and Churros and Cream. Trucks will be set up from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Street Tacos at Lucky’s: Made-to-order 
street tacos will be offered at Lucky’s Market, located at 1459 NW 23rd Ave., on Sunday. The event will run from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. and again from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., with three 
tacos for $5. 
 Here’s what you can do in Gainesville this weekend
LOCALTHURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer 
It’s been over a month since my last hip-
hop roundup, so there’s some catching up to 
do. With albums from Schoolboy Q, Gucci Mane, Lil Uzi Vert and others, the last month has given us some quality music that continues to prove 2016 has been one of the best years ever for hip-hop. Catch up with these latest releases:
Schoolboy Q: “Blank Face LP” — July 20
A couple years after Schoolboy Q’s last al-
bum, he returned in a strong way with “Blank 
Face LP.” The album is a little more mellow than Schoolboy’s “Oxymoron,” but it is still pretty good. I wasn’t exactly blown away by 
the album and didn’t feel a strong urge to listen 
to it multiple times, but it’s still worth check-
ing out. The Top Dawg Entertainment rapper linked up with Kanye West, Vince Staples, An-derson .Paak, Miguel, the latest Top Dawg En-tertainment artist Lance Skiiiwalker and more 
on “Blank Face LP.” Schoolboy Q has been in 
the game for a minute, so take some time and 
listen to this album. 
Lil Yachty: “Summer Songs 2” — July 20
The 18-year-old rapper from Atlanta made 
a lot of noise when he dropped his mixtape “Lil Boat” back in March, and he’s returned 
with his latest project. Yachty released his mix-
tape “Summer Songs 2” a few weeks ago and solidiﬁ  ed his spot in the rap game with this 
tape. He features Byou, G Herbo, Offset and 
frequent collaborator Burberry Perry on “Sum-
mer Songs 2.” The XXL Freshman released this 
album exclusively through Apple Music, but it 
can now be listened to on any streaming ser-
vice. Lil Yachty deﬁ  nitely isn’t for everyone, 
but I promise if you give him a few listens, 
you’ll become a fan. 
Jeremih: “Late Nights: Europe” — 
July 20
Jeremih has been killing it with his music over the last two years and with his latest mix-tape, “Late Nights: Europe,” it seems like he 
can’t miss. The mixtape features K Camp, Wiz 
Khalifa, Ty Dolla $ign, The Game and more. 
Deﬁ  nitely check this mixtape out and down-load it for free at datpiff.com. 
Gucci Mane: “Everybody Looking” — 
July 22
Gucci Mane has released more than 100 
mixtapes and albums in his career, and “Ev-erybody Looking” is the newest addition to 
his lengthy discography. While Gucci Mane is 
credited with making trap music popular, this 
album sounds a lot different than his other 
works. Any fan of hip-hop can vibe to “Every-
body Looking.” With only a few features com-
ing from Drake, Kanye West and Young Thug, 
Gucci Mane’s bars are more than enough to 
carry this album. Take a listen and get your 
trap house started.
DJ Khaled: “Major Key” — July 29
DJ Khaled’s ninth studio album, “Major Key,” was released this past Friday after much anticipation. Leading up to the release of “Ma-
jor Key,” the tracklist showed that Future, Big 
Sean, Nas, Jay Z, Kendrick Lamar, Travis Scott, 
Lil Wayne and a lot more would be featured, which made this album Khaled’s most talked 
about one to date. With two of DJ Khaled’s 
singles, “For Free” and “I Got The Keys” on 
the album, Khaled may have dropped his best 
yet. “Major Key” is currently only available on Apple Music but should be available every-
where in the next couple weeks.
Lil Uzi Vert: “The Perfect Luv Tape” — 
July 31
Lil Uzi Vert is one of the leaders of the new 
school with a unique sound and style. Uzi has now released three albums in nine months and 
continually improves with each project. “The 
Perfect Luv Tape” is a dope album and will 
deﬁ  nitely be in heavy rotation. Take a listen 
and download it for free online.  Reviewing music from Lil Uzi Vert, Gucci Mane and moreNEW RELEASES FROM THIS PAST MONTH ff the RecordTHE BREWERY IS COLLABORATING 
WITH THE CITY TO SUPPORT LOCAL 
PLANTS AND ANIMALS.
By Julia Nevins 
Avenue Writer 
Swamp Head Brewery started out small — really small. 
Since it’s conception in 2008, it has been on a carbon foot-
print, eco-friendly climb toward sustainability. And of course, good beer. 
On an average night, from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m., the bold 
and the brave wander into the brewery, located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave., and approach the bar where, in hipster scrawl, 
the name of current beers on tap wait for their consumers. 
A person doesn’t have to be skilled in beer talk, either. At 
Swamp Head, grab a stool and be ready to tell the beer mas-
ters a little about your tastes. That’s all it takes for the perfect 
match.
“If you just don’t like that it’s bubbly, then we may have 
a problem,” said Brandon Nappy, a beer enthusiast and the 
marketing director at Swamp Head. “If not, there is almost 
a hundred percent chance that we can ﬁ  nd something for 
you.”
Variety is the name of the game, and from the common 
staples to special batches for the Taste Room, Swamp Head 
has a little something for almost everyone. Where did it all 
start? A commitment to keeping it local and planet friendly. 
On a trip to Georgia, you won’t be able to ﬁ  nd Stump Knock-
er, or any other Swamp Head beers for that matter.
“We want to be Florida’s brewery,” Nappy said. “If we 
have our product going out that far, we can’t keep an eye on 
it like we can here.”
Nappy explained that keeping the product local allows 
them to pop into an establishment and have a beer to make 
sure all is well on the froth-front. 
Along with a commitment to good-tasting beer, the envi-ronment is very important to Swamp Head, and the brewery 
has made several strides toward keeping it sustainable. 
This Saturday, Swamp Head Brewery is teaming up with 
Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs to pick 
berries off of the invasive Coral Ardisia plants and throw 
them away. This prevents the berries from being eaten by birds and creating a monoculture that would disrupt the bio-diversity. 
The cleanup will happen at Bivens Arm Nature Park at 
8:30 a.m., and all volunteers will be treated to a year-round beer from the Tasting Room at Swamp Head afterward. Twenty participants are needed and spots are ﬁ  lling up fast. A sign-up sheet can be found on Swamp Head’s Facebook page. 
Swamp Head keeps their products Florida-based and 
make philanthropic efforts to reinvest in the community. 
At the end of the month, the brewery is putting together a 
trash-collecting competition with the prize being suds on the house. 
As for Nappy, who teasingly reminds people it’s, “Nappy, 
just like happy, but with an ‘N,’” there is no such thing as a 
favorite beer.
“They’re all my babies,” he said. “You can’t have a fa-
vorite baby.” 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve water
Courtesy to the Alligator
Swamp Head Brewery is teaming up with Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs for a berry pick-
ing on Saturday. Volunteers will pick berries off invasive plants and throw them away to support biodiversity. 
 Swamp Head keeps commitment to environment
LOCALTHURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville band GAUL will perform at the Atlantic on Saturday. The band 
is known for its heavy metal sound, described as “blackened doom. ”
Take a sip when…
• Piper and Alex ﬁ  ght (and  
 then make-up, and then  
 ﬁ  ght again)
• Lolly’s about   
 to ruin everything 
• Nicky thinks about, talks     
 about, or uses drugs 
• Morello is thrown into a  
 jealous rage
Take a shot when…
• You wonder what hap-  pened to Bennett 
• You wish you were friends  
 with Taystee
• Judy King becomes wilder  
 than you ever thought   possible 
• You hate the new guards  
 and brieﬂ  y wish Porn                    stache was back
• You’re so thankful   
 Doggett has new teeth
Finish your drink when…
• You see Soﬁ  a wasting  
 away in the SHU
• You can barely stand an 
 other minute of screentime                  for CaputoHere we are, nearing the end 
of Summer with Fall (and most 
importantly, football) just weeks away. Now, you have two bliss-ful weeks to catch up on your fa-vorite shows, with maybe a few adult beverages thrown in along the way. “Orange is the New Black” debuted its fourth season on Netﬂ  ix earlier this summer, but it may have taken you until now to catch up on Litchﬁ  eld’s latest happenings. This season is packed full with drama, so pour yourself a glass and get ready to play this week’s Netﬂ  ix drinking game. By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
For those looking to ex-
plore music with a darker 
tone, Gainesville band GAUL 
is worth a listen. The band, 
which describes its sound as “blackened doom” and is composed of Derek (guitar/
vox), Chris Hencher (bass) 
and Chris Vigilante (drums), is playing at the Atlantic this weekend. I sat down with Hencher to talk about the 
band’s experience. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did 
you guys get started?
Chris Hencher: Our 
drummer and bassist met 
through a mutual friend and were playing in another band back in 2010 when our gui-tarist/vocalist moved to town 
and placed an ad on Craigslist 
looking for people to start a band. Drummer answers add, starts jamming with guitar-
ist, bassist joins in after a few 
months, other band breaks up and voila, there you have it! KC: How would you de-
scribe your sound?
CH: Blackened doom; we 
have a lot of varied inﬂ  u-ences, but everyone seems to agree on blackened doom.
KC: You’re playing at 
the Atlantic this weekend — what can people expect from the show?
CH: Our drummer will 
break a lot of sticks, people 
will be getting buck, you will 
need earplugs.
KC: What has your tour 
schedule been like? 
CH: We have toured the 
East Coast of the U.S. twice in the past three years. This year, we have focused more on weekend dates around 
Florida. This summer we’ve 
played shows in Orlando, Tampa, Miami and Ft. Lau-derdale. This weekend we 
are playing in Georgia as well 
as our show at the Atlantic, and this fall we will be play-ing Rotten Fest in Tallahassee and Destroyer Fest in St. Pete. 
We also have a little surprise coming up around Hallow-
een. 
KC: Do you have any al-
bums out?
CH: We have two albums 
available via our Bandcamp page (GAUL.bandcamp.com). 
We are currently out of physi-
cal copies. 
KC: What do you think 
of Gainesville’s music scene, particularly for local bands?
CH: Gainesville has some 
super rad live music venues and a lot of cute bands of varying styles, and we love to 
give them all hugs as often as 
we can! 
GAUL will play at the At-
lantic on Saturday, alongside bands Cave of Swimmers and 
Ceremonial Hammer. Doors 
open at 9 p.m. for the show, and tickets are $6 at the door. 
Thanks for following 
along this summer! Know of any more local musicians or artists I should check out this Fall? Send Kirsten an email at kchuba@alligator.org.   Sitting down with GAUL
Q&A
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue WriterTHE LABEL CURRENTL Y 
WORKS WITH LOCAL 
BANDS, SUCH AS THE 
SAVANTS OF SOUL.
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer 
From producing music and 
video content for artists in their 
Swamp Sessions, to hosting an an-nual showcase of Gainesville art-ists, Swamp Records has worked closely with the local music scene for the past three years.
For the ﬁ  rst time, the student-
run record label is accepting sub-
missions from Gainesville artists 
for a spot as one of their ﬂ  agship 
artists.
The team of more than 40 
students will work alongside the 
ﬂ  agship artist. Planning for this 
project started last Spring, said 
Stephanie Elkin, the co-president 
of Swamp Records.
“We had to make sure that all 
our ideas were in line with what 
kind of artist we wanted to ﬁ  nd, 
what commitment level and what 
we wanted them to submit,” said 
the 21-year-old UF marketing se-
nior. “It’s been really fun.”
So far, Elkin said the response 
has been very strong, with new submissions every day. 
“I think it speaks to our repu-
tation in the community, even 
though we are still in starter 
mode, sometimes people know 
what we have to offer in terms of 
that we are a bunch of students 
really dedicated to helping the 
Gainesville music cause,” she 
said. 
The label focuses on devel-
oping a plan to ﬁ  t the goals and 
needs of the artist. “One of the beneﬁ  ts of being 
one of our artists is that you know 
you always have a big group of people in your corner, and with your band manager you have somebody that their entire job is how to make you successful,” co-president Joel Ramos said.
Swamp Records artists are as-
signed their own team for one-on-one attention that allows for speciﬁ  c focus on the artist’s goals and vision. 
“The team works right with them to develop campaigns, do booking, do PR, partnership — really anything that they need,” said the 22-year-old UF public re-lations major.
Some of the Swamp Records 
teams include: branding, events, business, booking, and an artist and repertoire team.
Ideally the label wants to have 
a wide spread of genres. Current-ly, they are working with big local names Flat Land and the Savants of Soul.
“An ideal artist for us would 
be someone, or some group of equal caliber of (Flat Land or the Savants of Soul) or equal quality of sound that explores an entire-ly different genre,” Ramos said, “that I think, especially in the Gainesville music community, there’s so much experimental and new unique music happening that it would be great to ﬁ  nd someone that is not like everybody else that we can bring to a bigger stage.”
Swamp Records’ recent suc-
cess was with Flat Land, a funk pop Gainesville based band that played the main stage at the Okeechobee Music Festival. The band was entered in the Battle of the Bands contest in early 2016.
“Through our team’s creativ-
ity, and just nonstop ambition we were able to win them a spot,” Elkin said. “We beat out over 800 bands to win them that spot on the stage, which is a huge oppor-tunity for them.”
The Savants of Soul wrapped 
up its Southeast tour last month and opened for soul and R&B singer Charles Bradley back in February, Ramos said.
“Any opportunity we have to 
work with an artist, we are go-ing to explore and try to make it happen,” he said. “We end up working with a lot of people in varying degrees of involvement…We try to involve with as much of the Gainesville music scene as we can.”
Although the UF-based label 
wants to help the Gainesville mu-sic scene grow, they also cater to students. 
“Our mission for the organiza-
tion is twofold,” Elkin said. “One, to give students that want to work in the music industry hands-on experience. Two, we want to serve the Gainesville music scene. We love it, we think it is really special and unique.”
Ramos said he wants to en-
courage any music-makers to submit.
Submissions of two to three 
song demos should be emailed to swamp.anr1@gmail.com. The ﬁ  -nal day to submit is Aug. 22.
“Our goal is to discover new 
music; everyone and anyone should be applying,” Ramos said.  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Swamp Records, Gainesville’s student-run record label, is looking for new artists for the ﬁ  rst time in its three-year history. Applications are open until Aug. 22. 14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Swamp Records represents a number of popular bands in town, including Flat Land and the Savants of Soul. Flat Land played at the Okeechobee Music Festival earlier this year with help from its  label, Swamp Records. The band entered the Battle of the Bands in early 2016.
 Swamp Records label searches for new artists
MUSICBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-23-16-17-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-22-16-15-1
4/4 All inclusive w/cable and utility pkg. 1800 SF furn. exc. for beds. Countryside at UF- call or text Cindy for pics or to see-352-339-3763. 8-4-16-5-1
Furnished 2BR/2BA in 4BR/4BA Countryside condo. Rent $400/rm/mo with 1st month FREE in year lease. Utilities, basic cable, and internet included. E-mail: countryside -
apt@gmail.com     8-23-16-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,
2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
2BR/1BA Apartment located across the street from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. $1000/MO-$1000 Security Deposit. Utilities & Cable not included. No Pets. Shown by Appointment Only. 16 NW 20th Terrace, 32603. (352-332-3945) 8-4-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
On the South’s Best Trout Fishing River3.5 Acres $14,900!350 ft of US National Forest FrontageFantastic InvestmentCall Today!1-888- 270-4695      8-4-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10  
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 7 Computers16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. 
$2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-
8-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647      8-4-1-12
DONATE YOUR CARFOR BREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556      8-4-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
NEED CLINICAL EXPERIENCE BEFORE ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL?Paid, Full-time employment.Training provided.Send resume to Dr. Levy, afn22025@att.net    8-4-6-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old.  Avail M,W,F 2:30-6:00pmT,R, 11-6pmApp online @ SimedHealth.com      8-4-16-1-14
ARE YOU A SPORTS FAN? GET PAID
to promote a NEW LIVE Sports App
created by the makers of Madden
Football! GO TO:
www.letsplaysportsgames.com
8-24-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE      8-4-1-14
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
15 Services
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-15
1. TELEVISION: What were the 
names of the children on the “Rose-
anne” TV comedy?
2. HOLIDAYS: What holiday is set 
aside to stress the importance of plant -
ing trees?
3. ANATOMY: What is the hardest 
known substance in the human body?
4. GEOLOGY: What is amber?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What organization allows people to 
join when they turn 50 years old?
6. CARS: What is the symbol for 
Audi vehicles?
7. GEOGRAPHY: What kind of 
landform is Martha’s Vineyard?
8. MUSIC: What group recorded the 
1966 hit “Good Vibrations”?
9. SCIENCE: What is the term for 
the temperature at which cooled water 
vapor turns into liquid?
10. MOVIE: What was Disney’s first 
animated feature that was based on an original story?
Answers
1. Darlene, Becky and D.J.2. Arbor Day3. Tooth enamel4. Fossilized tree resin5. AARP6. Four interlocking rings7. An island
8. The Beach Boys
9. Dew point10. “The Lion King”
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 1, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted THURSDAY,, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers!Grads work with Airlines, Airports and OthersGET CERTIFIED in just 12 weeks withFAA approved trainingCall AIM 888-242- 2649     8-4-1-15DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305     8-4-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099      8-4-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142      8-4-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Small Blind White Dog with black face. Last seen Madera Subdividion.All info ap-preciated. Picture at- https://flic.kr/p/KfkeBu Bonzaicb@yahoo.com 352-222-1080     8-4-5-25
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19DIVORCE $50 to $240*Covers Children, PropertyUnlocatable Spouses, Name Changes, etc.LOCAL OFFICES AVAILABLECall 1-888- 498-7075, Ext 100BUDGET LAW, established 1973*excludes govt fees      8-4-1-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963      8-4-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429      8-4-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ACROSS
1 Retro photos
7 Condescends
13 Tympanic
membrane
15 Half a notable
San Francisco
intersection
16 Heavy marble17 Worried about18 Brandy letters19 Some grad
students
21 P.O. boxful22 One of a divided
trio?
24 Like some room
fresheners
26 Anthem
contraction
28 Lucid
30 Tony winner
Martin in the
2013 “Pippin”
Broadway
revival
32 Cargo wts.33 With 43-Across,
acting like an
unscrupulous
contractor ... anda hint to this
puzzle’s circles
35 Prom dress
material
37 They may be
crunched
38 Bollywood star
Aishwarya __
39 Curaçao
cocktails
43 See 33-Across
47 RR schedule
listing
48 Land on a lake?
50 Psyche’s
beloved
51 Letters on old TV
dials
52 Strainer
53 For time eterne54 “Girls” creator
Dunham
57 “There’s __ in ... ”
58 XL squared60 Old Buick62 Indian spiced
drink
66 Wearing, with “in”67 Lots of shots68 Juiced-up
Roadsters?
69 BreastbonesDOWN
1 French
possessive
2 Take in
3 Hinder
4 Ominous date5 Patron of Alice’s6 __ generis7 Louisville-to-
Nashville dir.
8 Fare-well bridge
9 Scottish resort
town known for
its whisky
10 Defeat at the
polls
11 Gift12 Barrett of Pink
Floyd
14 Doling (out)15 Declare20 Furthermore22 Mil. bravery medal23 Evian, par
exemple
24 Colorful flowers25 The very
beginning,figuratively
27 Pretoria’s land:
Abbr.
29 Virginie, to
Eugénie
31 A long way away
34 Support beam36 Penalty for
wrongdoing
39 The Bulldogs of
the SEC
40 Game player41 Overruns42 Fished with a net
43 Study of
government
44 Meccano
construction set
45 1973 Court
decision alias46 Old map abbr.
49 One of the fire
signs
55 Attach, in a way
56 Magical opening58 Beer ingredient59 Act like a loon?
60 Map coordinate:
Abbr.
61 Legal thing
63 Possesses64 Poetic dusk65 Simile center
By Mike Peluso©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/04/1608/04/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, August 4, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/sportsPoll Results: Who had a better season, White or Butler?
Amanda Butler (coach, women's basketball): 58.3%   
Mike  White (coach, men's basketball): 41.7%The UF soccer team was ranked No. 7 in the National 
Soccer Coaches Association of America preseason poll released on Tuesday. FSU checked in at No. 1 while defending champion Penn State is No. 2. Duke, Virginia, Stanford and West Virginia round out the teams ahead of Florida. THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen 
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain began his second 
year as coach of the Florida Gators by talking about laundry.
“They got new workout jerseys. 
Everything looks pretty (now),” McElwain said at UF’s Media Day on Wednesday. “But when your 
laundry staff ... has washed it so 
many times that it starts to dull — 
that’s when you see what your team 
is made of.”
As it stands, McElwain isn’t ex-
actly sure what his team is made of.
There are questions surrounding 
UF’s linebackers, where only two players — Jarrad Davis and Alex 
Anzalone — are sure-fire starters, even though the latter missed 12 games with a shoulder injury last season.
There is an opening at the top 
of the running back group, where three players — sophomores Jor-dan Cronkrite and Jordan Scarlett and junior college transfer Mark Thompson — will compete for play-ing time.
And there is uncertainty sur-
rounding the quarterback position, where transfers Luke Del Rio and Austin Appleby are battling for sole possession of the starting gig, ahead of true freshmen Kyle Trask and Feleipe Franks.
McElwain is embracing the un-
known.
“I think the key to our success will be guys competing for playing time at many positions,” McElwain said.
But among all the positions, 
Florida’s coach said the strongest will be the running back group.
The most experienced of the top 
three candidates in the backfield are Scarlett and Cronkrite. Scarlett rushed 34 times for 181 yards and one touchdown last year, while Cronkrite compiled 157 yards on 44 carries and three touchdowns.
Then there’s Thompson, a 
6-foot-2, 242-pound running back who has never played a down of Di-vision I football.
But Thompson’s inexperience 
doesn’t bother him much.Questions surround Florida
before start of Fall campSIDEBAR
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Thanks to defensive backs 
like Joe Haden, Vernon Harg-reaves and Keanu Neal, Flor-ida has forged a reputation as “DBU”, or Defensive Backs Uni-versity.
But at Florida’s football Me-
dia Day on Wednesday, it was another defensive position 
group that demanded attention. 
“I think on the D-Line, ev-
erybody’s gonna have such a 
successful year that nobody’s really gonna stand out,” de-
fensive lineman CeCe Jefferson 
said of the group’s depth. 
“It’s literally gonna be a 
feeding frenzy.”
All afternoon, coaches and 
players fielded questions about 
the defensive line. 
The only group that over-
shadowed it was the quarter-backs. 
Players were asked how the 
team will make up for the lost production of NFL-bound play-makers Jonathan Bullard and Alex McCalister. The duo was responsible for 13 of the defen-sive line's 30.5 sacks and com-bined for 92 tackles. 
To replace them, coach Jim 
McElwain rattled off a few vet-eran names: Caleb Brantley, Joey Ivie and Khairi Clark. 
But defensive coordinator 
Geoff Collins said that won’t be enough. 
“The times of having 
11-strong are long gone,” Col-lins  said. “You need to have 18, 22, 24 
guys that you could roll through and play at a high level.”
Luckily for him, the Gators 
have plenty of scholarship de-fensive linemen on their roster. 
Among some of the veteran 
returners are Bryan Cox, Jordan Sherit, Taven Bryan and Justus Reed, who Jefferson jokingly called the most serious player on the team. 
“This guy walks around seri-
ous all the time. All the time,” he said of Reed. 
“I don’t think he ever 
smiles.”
Jefferson anchors the group 
of younger players that includes Keivonnis Davis, Jabari Zuniga and Luke Ancrum. There’s also freshmen Antonneous Clayton, Jordan Smith and Jachai Polite. 
“The numbers are there,” 
McElwain said. “And yet, you know, time will tell when we see about consistency in perfor-mance. That’s the key.”
Consistency is something 
that every defensive linemen on Florida’s roster knows about. 
Jefferson was a five-star re-
cruit. Clayton was Florida’s top recruit of 2016. Davis led Miami Central to three-straight state titles. Polite was the No. 1 player in the Orlando Sentinel’s Central Florida Super60. Taven Bryan was the No. 1 player in the state of Wyoming. 
As far as those accolades 
and abilities translating to the Southeastern Conference, ev-ery player at media day seemed Gators defensive line 
looking to replace lost production
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain addresses the media during UF football's annual Media Day on Wednesday 
at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Antonio Callaway will partici-
pate in the start of Fall practice on 
Thursday, but the status of his sus-pension is still unclear.
Florida coach Jim McElwain addressed the hazy circumstances surrounding Callaway’s situation at UF’s Media Day on Wednesday. Callaway, who was suspended be-fore the start of Spring practice for 
unknown reasons, has since been 
cleared to practice and will attend classes.McElwain declined to give spe-
cifics on what Callaway was sus-pended for and when the issue will be resolved, including whether or not Callaway will be eligible to 
play in Florida’s season opener on 
Sept. 3.
“Nothing from a status stand-point has changed and there isn’t a time frame on that,” he said.
Callaway had a breakout fresh-
man season for the Gators last year, leading the team in receiving 
yards (678) and average yards per 
catch (19.37). 
He was named a Freshman First Team All-America by Pro Football Focus as well as an All-America First Team member as a punt re-turner by CBS Sports.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
Status of Florida receiver Antonio Callaway still unclearSEE SIDEBAR,  PAGE 19 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
Thompson said his goal is to 
rush for 1,000 yards by the bye 
week — after UF’s seventh game.
“I think it’s a bit of an intimida-
tion factor for a lot of people, when you see a big guy coming at you with a lot of speed,” Thompson said.
Even though there is no clear-
cut starter among the running backs yet, McElwain said one will likely 
emerge as the season opener against 
Massachusetts on Sept. 3 draws closer.
“Positionally, there’s a lot of 
question marks,” McElwain said. “But there’s a lot of question marks 
every year.”
DBs praise QBs:
The defensive back group had 
high praise for the quarterbacks on Wednesday, including cornerback Quincy Wilson, who said he was 
most impressed by Del Rio.
 “Del Rio likes to take charge.  
He’s a leader out there,” Wilson said. “And that’s something you 
need.”
But even though Del Rio has 
stood out, Wilson said he tries to give advice to every quarterback on the roster.
“I like to give them pointers af-ter they make mistakes. To let them know what I was doing, disguising this, disguising that, stuff like that. 
It’s all about helping them out,” Wilson said. “They’re a part of our 
team, so they’ll give me pointers too. We’re all helping each other 
out.”Junior cornerback Jalen Tabor 
had a different opinion.
“When we get out there, it’s 
straight competition,” he said. “I re-ally don’t like quarterbacks.”
Cleveland, Wells to practice:
Freshman receivers Tyrie Cleve-
land and Rick Wells will practice with the team despite being ar-rested on July 18, McElwain said on 
Wednesday.
Both players were arrested on 
charges of criminal mischief and for firing a missile into a dwelling after 
police said they shot BB guns at a UF residence hall.
No team-sanctioned punish-
ments have been announced.
“They were dealt some pretty 
heavy consequences right as it hap-pened,” McElwain said. “Those consequences are continued on and 
nothing has been finalized in any-
thing on that.”
Don't call me Jalen:
Florida’s star cornerback has 
changed his name — at least on the 
team’s official website.
According to FloridaGators.com, 
Tabor has requested that he be re-ferred to as Teez Tabor, his nick-
name during middle school.
“If you call me Teez, you know 
me,” Tabor said to FloridaGators.com. “If you call me Jalen, you just 
know of me.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg18McElwain said freshmen receivers Cleveland, W ells will practice
confident that this season, they 
will. 
And that goes for everyone. 
Because aside from McElwain, no players or coaches singled out any players in particular who may step up and fill the void left by McCalister and Bullard. 
They said it’ll be more of the 
group effort that Collins men-tioned. And even if a couple of play-
ers stand out more than others, the team believes it has a large number of capable linemen at the position.
“I think as a group, we’ll defi-
nitely surprise everyone,” Bryan said. 
“I think everyone’s gotten a lot 
better since last year.”
Jefferson agrees. “I’m lost for words, man,” he 
said. 
“I can’t even explain. It’s one of those things you have to see to know what I’m talking about. Everybody’s gonna show up and 
show out.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
SIDEBAR,  from pg 18Florida's defense is anchored by a talented defensive lineEmily Cochrane / Alligator
Luke Del Rio (left) hands the ball to Mark Thompson (right) during Florida's Orange and Blue Debut on 
April 8 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson answers questions during UF's Media Day on Wednesday.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive lineman T aven Bryan (right) returns a fumble 48 yards to the opponent's 2-yard line during UF's 20-14 win over Florida Atlantic on Nov. 21 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, AUGUST 4, 2016
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Florida offensive coordinator 
Doug Nussmeier said it “would be 
foolish” not to use retired coach Steve Spurrier as a resource.
Speaking at the team’s annual 
media day Wednesday, Nussmeier said he plans to tap into Spurrier’s offensive mind this season.
“How would you not?” Nuss-
meier said, adding that he walks by Spurrier’s Heisman Trophy statue on campus daily. “Just hav-ing watched Coach from a distance over time and what he’s been able to accomplish offensively and sit down and have the conversations that we’ve had and things. You talk about a great resource within the building, and to not use it to me would be foolish.”
The Gators hired Spurrier as 
ambassador and consultant for the school’s athletic department last week, reuniting him with his alma mater. Spurrier’s exact role is undeﬁ  ned, but he expects to work primarily as a fundraiser for the athletic department and help pro-mote the Gators.
He also could be a valuable 
help in the football ofﬁ  ces.
“If you’re trying to grow as a 
coach, you’re always reaching out 
to other people within your profes-
sion or people that you respect and asking opinions,” Nussmeier said. “And, ‘Hey, how do you do this?’ Or, ‘Hey, would you look at what we’re doing here and tell me if you 
might have a suggestion you think 
we could do better?’ Really excited to have that resource in the build-ing.”
Spurrier was Florida’s ﬁ  rst 
Heisman Trophy winner (1966) and the coach who led the Gators to their ﬁ  rst national champion-ship (1996). 
In June, the Gators renamed 
their football ﬁ  eld after Spurrier, calling it Steve Spurrier-Florida Field at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Florida will honor Spurrier at the 2016 season opener during a cer-emony that will include the unveil-
ing of his name on the stadium.
Spurrier already made head-
lines by saying Florida quarter-
back Luke Del Rio “seems to be the starter.”
Coach Jim McElwain, who has 
not publicly named a starter, joked Wednesday that Spurrier must have gleaned his information from 
a few Spring practices.
“First of all, I’ve got to say this: 
I’m excited he’s on our team,” 
McElwain said. “But I guess those three practices he watched, he picked it, right?”
 Florida’s Nussmeier: It’d be ‘foolish’ not to use Spurrier 
Spurrier was hired by UF on Friday