ORGANIZATION BIKES 
THROUGH GAINESVILLE 
AND BUILDS HOMES.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
After two weeklong road trips, 
one 6,000-mile journey and one 
10,000-mile drive, three 22-year-
olds are going to colleges across 
the country to connect with stu-dents and help others. Alex Radelich, Dalton Lemert 
and Theodore Thatcher biked thousands of miles to UF to spread kindness. Radelich, Lemert and Thatcher founded ARK Project Now, an organization that per-
forms acts of random kindness. 
On their stop in Gainesville, 
the trio worked with Alpha Tau 
Omega  Fraternity to build houses 
with Habitat for Humanity. 
The idea for the project came 
to Radelich when he was a fresh-man at Purdue University while watching “Evan Almighty,” a 
movie starring Steve Carell and Morgan Freeman. 
At that moment, ARK Project 
was born, he said. 
The ﬁ  rst two trips were taken 
in Lemert’s mother’s minivan, Lemert said. They decided their destinations with the ﬂ  ip of a 
coin. 
In the past, they’ve taken Boys We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 97 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
Romped at Rupp: Florida falls 
to Kentucky on road
Kentucky has won 33 straight games
at Rupp Arena, pg. 13
UF students ring in the Lunar New Year
Gainesville businesses and student organizations celebrate the Lunar New Year, pg. 3
UF group has ﬁ  fth CPR training
About 500 students and community members were trained and certiﬁ  ed, pg. 5Meet the candidates
Check out the Student Body Executive ticket proﬁ  les for Access Party and Impact Party, pgs. 8-9
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gaby Martell couldn’t eat Ben and Jer-
ry’s ice cream without getting sick due to 
being lactose-intolorent — until now.
Martell, a 19-year-old UF accounting 
sophomore, said dairy products make her stomach uneasy. The good news: Ben and 
Jerry’s recently announced a line of non-
dairy, vegan-certified flavors.
Because the products are made with al-
mond milk, Martell said she can eat ice cream without worrying about an upset 
stomach.
Martell said she found out about the new flavors after reading an article posted 
on Facebook. She said she’s excited for the Coffee Caramel Fudge flavor.
Other flavors include P.B. and Cook-
ies, Chocolate Fudge Brownie and Chunky Monkey, according to a press release.
The ice cream will be available to 
Gainesville residents by the end of Feb-
ruary, said Anna, a Publix customer care 
agent. She declined to provide her last name, citing company policy.Gainesville resident Darcy Fiorello said 
she is a vegan and likes ice cream substi-tuted with non-dairy ingredients.
However, she doesn’t like chocolate, 
and she’s allergic to peanuts. If there were more options available, Fiorello said she would be interested in trying the ice cream.
“I wish they had more basic flavors,” 
she said, “but I don’t think Ben and Jerry’s does simple.”  Ben and Jerry’s announces new products
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Paul Nicoletti treated his stu-
dents like family.
“He really took us under his 
wing,” said his former student, Lisa 
Conti.
Family, friends and past stu-
dents gathered Saturday afternoon at the Williams Thomas Funeral Home to honor Nicoletti’s life. The former UF professor for the College of Veterinary Medicine died Jan. 31 at 83 years old due to injuries from a fall.
Nicoletti came to UF in 1978 and 
taught infectious diseases, epidemi-ology and public health and food safety before he retired in 2003.
After growing up on a dairy farm 
in Missouri, Nicoletti’s life changed after receiving a $150 scholarship that allowed him to attend college, said James Lloyd, the dean of the UF College of Veterinary Medicine.
He said Nicoletti wanted to give 
students the same opportunity he had. Nicoletti created numerous scholarships at UF, including the Paul Nicoletti Florida Opportunity Scholarship in Veterinary Medicine, which supports ﬁ  rst-generation stu-dents, Lloyd said.   
“I often referred to him as our 
poster child for scholarship-giving,” Lloyd said.
He said his fondest memory of 
Nicoletti was driving across Florida for business trips. It was during those highway conversations that Nicoletti became Lloyd’s mentor.“Everywhere we went, it was 
always clear who was the star around, and it wasn’t the new 
dean,” he said. “I rode on his coat-
tails.”
In 2010, Nicoletti received the 
Karl F. Meyer-James H. Steele Gold Headed Cane Award, the highest honor given by the American Vet-erinary Epidemiology Society.
For Conti, her life changed after 
she took Nicoletti’s public health and food safety class in the late 1980s.
“He just lit a ﬁ  re that I didn’t 
know was there,” she said.
Before his class, Conti wanted 
to become a clinician. Instead, Ni-coletti opened her eyes to a career in public health.
Now Conti is the deputy com-
missioner at the Florida Depart-ment of Agriculture and Consumer Services in Tallahassee. Whenever Nicoletti travelled through Talla-
hassee, he would stay at her house, 
she said.
He was always welcomed as a 
member of her family.
She said Nicoletti would take  Family, friends 
remember UF veterinary professor 
SEE KINDNESS,  PAGE 4EPILOGUE
 An act of kindness in Gainesville
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4
New vegan ice cream released
“Everywhere we went, it was 
always clear who was the 
star around, and it wasn’t 
the new dean,” Lloyd said. “I 
rode on his coat-tails.”
James Lloyd
 dean of the UF College of 
Veterinary Medicine
SUPER BOLD
Abaca Jones, a 47-year-old operating room technician, celebrates for her favored Super Bowl 
team, the Carolina Panthers, during the 2016 Super Bowl on Sunday night. She predicted they would win by 15 points. “The second half is gonna be a big half, ” she said. The Panthers lost 24-10.
Emma Green / Alligator StaffSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Directing Shakespeare: A 
Scholar Onstage
In commemoration of the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death, professor 
Sidney Homan will present a lec-
ture on “Directing Shakespeare: A Scholar on Stage” on Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. in the Judaica Suite. The suite is situ-ated in Smathers Library on the second floor Special Collections Grand Reading Room. Homan is a professor of English at UF 
and a visiting professor at Jilin 
University in China. An actor and director in commercial and university theatres, he is also the author of some 11 books on Shakespeare and the modern playwrights.
Olive Senior: A reading and con-
versationOlive Senior will read from her poetry and fiction and discuss “Dying to Better Themselves: West Indians and the Building of the Panama Canal,” her re-cent prize-winning book that exposes a little-known side of a monumental story, today at 4 
p.m. in the Judaica Suite. The 
suite is situated in the Smathers Library second floor Special Collections Grand Reading Room. An author of more than 16 books, Senior is one of the most prominent contemporary Caribbean writers, having won prizes for her fiction, poetry 
and nonfiction. She has worked 
internationally as a creative writing teacher and lecturer on Caribbean literature and cul-ture. She is on the faculty of the Humber School for Writers in Toronto, Canada, and has taught in the writing programs at the University of Toronto, 
St. Lawrence University, 
Barnard College and Columbia University.
iSTEAM Speaker Series pres-
ents: Gators team physicianDr. Kevin Farmer, the team physician of the UF Athletic Association and an assistant 
professor of orthopaedics and 
sports surgery at the UF College of Medicine, will speak at the Marston Science Library, Room L136, today at 1 p.m. Farmer will speak on his expe-riences as team physician for the Gators and on current ad-vances in sports medicine that 
keep Gator athletes competing 
at world-class levels. Farmer’s talk is co-sponsored by the Marston Science Library and the UF Premedical Chapter of the American Medical Student Association. The iSTEAM Speakers Series presents topics 
of interest to students majoring 
in science, technology, engi-neering, arts and/or math.
A Valentine’s Night at the 
Museum, Feb. 13Spend Valentine’s eve at the Florida Museum of Natural History playing trivia games. 
The program fee includes ad-
mission to the “First Colony: Our Spanish Origins” exhibit and participation in trivia night. The museum is open from 6 p.m. until 10 p.m. for this event. Trivia begins at 7:30 p.m. The program fee is $10 per person or $15 per couple, and it’s free 
for both UF students with val-
id Gator 1 Cards and museum members. A Valentine’s Night at the Museum is for adults only (ages 18 and up). Preregistration is required. For more informa-tion, call 352-273-2061.
Faculty recital: Duo Anno 1647 
featuring Kristen Stoner play-ing the fluteThe UF School of Music presents a performance by Duo Anno 1647, including UF faculty mem-ber Dr. Kristen Stoner (flute) and guest artist Manabu Takasawa (piano), from the University of Rhode Island, on Feb. 15 at 
7:30 p.m. The performance is in 
the Music Building, Room 101, and is free and open to the pub-lic. They will perform “Poem” by Charles Griffes, “Ballade” by Frank Martin, “Deep Blue” by Ian Clarke, “Sonatina” by Camargo Guarnieri, “First Sonata” by Bohuslav Martinu 
and “Soliloquy” by Jake Heggie.
Enter the Pepsi Gators Give Back 
Contest
Calling all creative problem solvers! Help Library West go green. Write a 150- to 500-word essay describing an idea to ad-vance sustainability issues with-
in Library West, and you could 
win $500 in Pepsi products. UF students can submit ideas by Feb. 15 to bsd.ufl.edu/g1c/ze-rowaste.
Sex in the Swamp Returns to UF 
on Feb. 18The Alpha Lambda Chapter 
of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF, in 
partnership with the UF Student Health Care Center, is proud to announce a renewed Sex in the Swamp event coming to the Florida Gym on Feb. 18. Starting at 7 p.m., join campus and community organizations for a variety of great Spring Break 
tips, information and free-bies, including: a live SEXpert 
panel, Spring Break tips, free food, giveaways and free tank 
tops and sunglasses for the 
first 200 students. For more information and to RSVP on Facebook, visit facebook.com/events/1666178790317109.
Harn Museum Writing 
Competition: Words on Canvas
Words on Canvas is a yearly 
writing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested in inspiring museumgoers by writing poetry or prose con-nected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College students are welcome to participate. 
Winning contestants will be 
awarded Harn merchandise and students may submit until Feb. 21. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more information, please visit our website at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
Film about Syrian refugees play-
ing one night onlyYou’re invited to a one-night-only film showing of “Salam Neighbor,” a film that illustrates the harsh realities currently fac-ing Syrian refugees in Jordan’s Zaatari refugee camp. The event is scheduled for Feb. 23 at 7:30 p.m. and will be shown at the 
Regal Royal Park Stadium 16 
(3702 Newberry Road). The price is $12, and we need 78 people to sign up before Feb. 15 for this event to take place. If we do not hit 78 people, those who bought a ticket will not be billed. We hope to see you there. You can purchase your tickets 
at tugg.com/events/85975.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 97
HIGH  64° LOW  37°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloBy Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs and students sang 
songs and performed dances to celebrate the 
Chinese New Year on Sunday night.
More than 300 people participated in the UF 
Chinese Student Association’s Chinese Spring 
Festival Gala held at the Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts. To celebrate the Year of the Monkey, members of the club wore traditional Chinese clothing as they performed Chinese solo and hip-hop dances.
There were also talk shows that taught par-
ticipants about 2,000 years of Chinese history.
“We want Chinese students to have this ex-
perience like they are in China,” said Yucheng Cao, a vice president of CSA. “This is one of the biggest festivals in China.”
This year, the celebration had better perfor-
mances than last year, she said.
“This year, I’m one of the actors in one of the plays,” Cao said. “It’s fun to be part of it.”
Lucía Curihuamán, 23, said she went to the 
event because she was born in the Year of the 
Monkey, which is 1992.
“I heard it’s a bad year for the monkeys, so 
I wanted to see what they have to say,” the UF 
first-year pharmacy graduate student said.
Hannah Wang, a UF education alumna, 
went to the event last year and said she thought it could be improved.
“Last year, the shows were in Chinese,” the 25-year-old said. “This time, I hope they have more international shows for local people that are attending.”
Zhuoran Zhang, a UF first-year chemical 
engineering graduate student, said several of his friends went.
“This is my first year at UF, and it’s a little 
tough to meet people,” the 23-year-old said. “I think there’s not many Chinese people in the U.S., but the CSA is like a family, and everyone can share their feelings and have a good time.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
UF students ring in Lunar New Year
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
Members of the UF Chinese Student Association perform a traditional Chinese 
dance on Sunday night during the Chinese Spring Festival Gala at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts.
Food, shows and more to ring in 2016: Year of the MonkeyIsabel Bonnet / Alligator 
The UF Chinese Student Association’s Chinese Spring Festival Gala, held at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, celebrated the Year of the Monkey on Sunday night. A variety of hip-hop and traditional dances were performed.
BENTO CAFE 
3832 W. Newberry Road 
3841 SW Archer Road 
• If you wear red: half-
priced chicken rice bowls today, half-priced Sichuan beef noodle soup Tuesday, 
and half-priced classic 
rolls Friday. Those who “check in” on Facebook will receive a red envelope gift. LOLLICUP
3550 SW 34th St. 
• Today — The first 100 
customers to purchase 
a drink will receive 
envelopes with prizes. 
• Prizes include: $1, $5, $10 or $20 cash 
or free drink coupons. SG’S MULTICULTURAL 
AFFAIRS CABINET  
Turlington Plaza
• Today — From 11 a.m. 
to 2 p.m., SG is giving out red envelopes in which students can receive a coupon for 
T-shirts, water bottles or 
pens. Vegetarian spring rolls and ginger peach punch will be served.CHINESE AMERICAN 
STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom 
• Sunday, Feb. 21 — Free Lunar New Year Celebration held at 6:30 p.m. There will be performances, 
food, raffles and 
cultural activities.VIETNAMESE STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION
Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom
• Sunday, March 6 — Free Annual Tet Show at 7 p.m. There will be a fashion show with traditional attire, food 
and performances.4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
By Fresia Urdaneta 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new scholarship will help 
UF musical theater students pay 
for costumes, makeup and dance 
shoes.
UF Provost Joseph Glover has 
donated $30,000 to a new $1,200 
scholarship for UF musical the-
ater students. The Joe Glover 
Scholarship for Excellence in Mu-sical Theatre will help with stu-dents’ ﬁ  nancial burden. 
The scholarship will be award-
ed for the ﬁ  rst time at the end of Spring 2016 and be disbursed for next school year. 
Jennifer Coolidge, director of 
development at the UF College of the Arts, said a committee will select one or two musical theater 
students every year for the schol-
arship. The committee will be made up of faculty members of the College of the Arts, she said. Students do not have to apply for 
the scholarship.
Glover’s donation will help 
students in the college, she said.
“This gift is signiﬁ  cant because 
we don’t have a tremendous 
amount being donated to the col-lege,” Coolidge said. “(Glover) is a leader, not only in his position as UF provost, but he is a leader 
as a donor.”
Alessia Salimbene, a UF acting 
sophomore, said she is heavily 
involved in the musical theater program. 
“It’s expensive to be a theater 
major,” the 19-year-old said. 
Theater students have to take 
a lot of credits, and buying items for costumes can be expensive, she said.
“It’ll be a weight off the shoul-
ders of whoever wins,” Salimbene said. “They’ll be able to focus on perfecting their craft.”  UF Provost starts scholarship
By Rebecca White
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Levin College of Law is 
helping students ﬁ  nd jobs.
The college’s Center for Career 
Development will launch a smart-
phone application this summer to 
help law students ﬁ  nd employ-
ment after graduation. The app didn’t cost any money to create and will be free to download.
Rob Birrenkott, the assistant 
dean for career development and a co-creator of the app, said the app could be used to inform students about networking opportunities, 
such as job fairs.  
Birrenkott said he developed 
the app with the help of a student 
advisory committee. Together they partnered with LawSmith, a com-pany that specializes in software that serves the legal community. 
They got the idea for the app 
after several students asked what they need to be doing right now to get a job, Birrenkott said. 
“The app shows students what 
they should be doing right now, whether they’re a ﬁ  rst-year stu-dent or a third-year student,” he said.  
Chris Champion, a third-year 
law student, said he’s known law students who have struggled to ﬁ  nd jobs.
“Finding a job in the legal ﬁ  eld 
right now is very difﬁ  cult,” the 25-year-old said. “This app will certainly make that process easi-er.”  New app to help law 
students ﬁ  nd jobs
LOCAL
By Kayla Solem
Alligator Contributing Writer 
About two weeks remain in the third-
annual Weekly Wellness Walk program, 
an effort to highlight the issue of childhood obesity and promote a healthy lifestyle.
The walks, which are part of Combating 
Obesity for Alachua County’s Health, are held every Saturday through Feb. 27 from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m at the Santa Fe College track. 
Roslyn Levy, a senior vice president of 
Coldwell Banker M.M. Parrish Realtors, 
helped organize the event this year.
She said people of all ages walk and run 
around the track to the rhythm of a live DJ, 
stopping at times to refuel on free water and fruit. 
“Just scanning the track you get a real 
broad glimpse of the people who get attract-ed to our walks,” Levy said. “It’s very excit-ing to see them all come together.” 
Prominent members of the Gainesville 
community lead the walks and motivate par-
ticipants, Levy said. 
Previous leaders include Chris Machen, 
UF‘s former ﬁ  rst lady; Mary Wise, UF’s cur-
rent women’s volleyball coach; and even mascots Albert and Alberta.  
Rae Drake said she’s made several friends 
she attended the ﬁ  rst-ever event in 2014. 
“As you walk, you talk, and it makes it go so much quicker, and it doesn’t seem quite as stressful or strenuous,” Drake said. 
Storm Roberts, a 98.5 KTK radio host, 
started taking part in the walks three years ago, during which he became a leader for one of the groups. 
Roberts said he values a healthy lifestyle 
and hopes participants continue beyond the program. 
“It’s just a good way to refocus,” Roberts 
said.  Weekly walks aim to talk about childhood obesity issues 
any opportunity to tell her about his own family.
“Any chance he could get, he 
bragged about his daughters and his grandchildren,” she said.
Carl Romey, a pastor at the First 
Church of the Nazarene who lead Ni-coletti’s service, said Nicoletti shared his love for travel.
Nicoletti found an unlikely friend-
ship with Romey.
“The biggest shock that he had 
was that an evangelical Christian could also be a democrat,” he said, speaking of how both were demo-crats.
He said he could talk — and argue 
— about anything with Nicoletti.
“And that was where we had so 
much fun,” he said.
He said it was time for the next 
generation, Nicoletti’s children and grandchildren, to pick up the baton Nicoletti passed to them.
“Paul would say to each one of 
us, ‘Don’t stop being who God want-
ed you to be. Don’t stop giving,’” 
Romey said. 
Nicoletti is survived by his chil-
dren, Nancy Leader and Julie Nico-letti; his grandchildren, Joel Parker, Beth Leader, Julia Leader and Dan-iel Leader; and his sister, Ruth Ann Eads. 
   @k_newberg
 knewberg@alligator.orgEPILOGUE,  from pg 1The former professor died at 83 years old
and Girls Club children to Walt 
Disney World, handed out free ice-cream after the Baltimore ri-
ots and bought dinner for those 
in need.
The bulk of their budget goes 
toward helping others, while 
a small portion goes to travel, 
food and a safety fund, Radelich said. 
“So we survive,” Thatcher 
said. “We eat a lot of spaghetti.”
The group decided to do a 
college tour after their fourth cross-country trip, he said. UF was the fourth stop on the 
10-school tour.
They came to UF to meet 
people and gain contacts while 
performing acts of random kind-ness. 
“The ﬁ  rst day at UF we tried 
to do a kindness scavenger hunt,” Radelich said. “We were in Turlington, so people already have their blinders on, but it felt like we were in New York City. 
People were not open to a con-
versation.”
He said he had hoped the 
three could have a larger effect 
on UF’s students.
“One thing I hope we can 
leave the Student Body with is a more open mind to whatever 
is happening around them,” he said. 
 In the future, they want to 
have university ARK chapters, 
Thatcher said. Each chapter 
would go on road trips to per-form acts of random kindness. 
“If people don’t believe that 
kindness can be fun, then they won’t participate,” he said. “We think we can catch the attention and move people from the place of, ‘This is just some random 
charity thing’ to actually think-
ing, ‘This is how I want to live my life.’” KINDESS,  from pg 1The group wants to 
start university chapters
Courtesy to the Alligator
Paul Nicoletti, a former professor in UF’s College of 
Veterinary Medicine, died on Jan. 31 at 83 years old. Nicoletti taught infectious diseases, epidemiology and public health and food safety at UF from 1978 to 2003.For musical theater students
“This gift is signiicant 
because we don’t have a 
tremendous amount being 
donated to the college. 
(Glover) is a leader, not only 
in his position as UF provost, 
but he is a leader as a donor.”
Jennifer Coolidge
UF College of the Arts 
director of development
“If people don’t believe that kindness can be fun, then they won’t 
participate.”
Theodore Thatcher
ARK Project Now founderMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
CRIME
ABOUT 500 STUDENTS AND 
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WERE 
TRAINED AND CERTIFIED.
By Lauren Rowland
Alligator Contributing Writer
In high school, Youshra Ahmed, 20, 
used CPR to save her neighbor’s life.
On Saturday, the UF health science ju-
nior helped run the fifth annual GatorSav-
ers event hosted by GatorCPR. During the event at the Reitz Union, about 500 stu-dents and Gainesville community members 
were trained and certified to give CPR and 
use an automated external defibrillator, which can be used to restart someone’s heart. The training cost $5.
Attendance was down slightly from past 
years, in which about 700 people had at-tended.
“You can save a life because you know 
how to do CPR,” Ahmed said.
More than 100 mannequins and 70 
AEDs were used during training.
A 35-minute video showed participants 
how to perform CPR. The video was paused every few minutes so they could practice on their mannequins. About 70 volunteer 
instructors taught compressions, ventila-
tions and how to use an AED.
Clay Gibbons, the owner of GatorCPR, 
said it was important for people to learn 
how to do chest compressions.
“The more people that know CPR, the 
higher the survival rates,” Gibbons, 45, 
said.
Christina Callesis, the director of opera-
tions and training at GatorCPR, said the event is cheaper because it helps GatorCPR give AEDs to the community.
“Through GatorCPR, we offer CPR cer-
tification year round,” the 22-year-old UF alumna said, “but this is the cheapest they will find it, because it doubles as a fund-raiser for the nonprofit to grant a public-access AED in the community.”
Lydia Hensel, a UF health science soph-
omore, waited in line to donate blood at the event. LifeSouth Community Blood Centers received 38 donations.
The 19-year-old said the event helped 
her learn what to do in an emergency.  
“I feel more prepared leaving than when 
I walked in to help someone in an emer-gency situation,” she said.UF group has fifth CPR training
Lauren Rowland / Alligator
Joe O’Brien, a 21-year-old UF hospitality and tourism management senior, learns chest 
compressions as part of the GatorSavers event in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Saturday. About 500 participants came to the event to be trained and certified in CPR.
By Levi Bradford
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Alachua County Office 
of Sustainability will host a free 
workshop Wednesday to educate 
residents about the benefits of a 
low-carbon diet.
Forage Farm, a local sustain-able agriculture group, will teach people how to shop, cook and 
diet in a way that reduces their 
carbon footprint and improves personal health, according to a press release.
From noon to 1 p.m., attend-
ees can bring their own lunch to the Grace Knight Conference Room in the Alachua County Ad-ministration Building, situated at 
12 SE First St.
Lauren Goldsby, a 20-year-old 
UF food science and human nu-
trition sophomore, said she limits her impact on the environment 
by avoiding red meat and garden-
ing in her backyard.
“Not only does it lower your 
carbon footprint by not shipping 
food, but it also saves you money and you feel cool tending your 
own little baby carbon recycler in 
your backyard,” Goldsby said.
The event is part of I Love Lo-
cal Food Week, which consists of 
near-daily events for residents to learn and get involved, according 
to the Forage Farm website.
Rachel Wayne, an Alachua 
County program development 
specialist, said the event could 
help the community — even if only a few people learn some-
thing new.
Wayne said the workshop is 
designed for people who work 9-to-5 jobs and want to learn something on their lunch hour.
“It is simply one more tool 
in the toolbox for people to live a healthy and sustainable life-style,” she said.Free workshop on low-carbon diets to be held Wednesday Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
CLEFTOMANIACS
Erika Boone, a 21-year-old UF microbiology and cell science junior, rehearses “Hold my Hand” by Jess 
Glynne with T one Def, a UF-based competitive a cappella group, on Turlington Plaza on Sunday. T one Def will compete in the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella quarterfinals on Feb. 20 at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts at 7 p.m.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a St. Cloud man 
early Saturday morning after au-
thorities said he attacked an officer.
At about 1:40 a.m. Saturday, 
a Gainesville Police officer found 
Ethan Alexander Wilson, 21, un-
conscious on Northwest Eighth Av-enue, according to a police report.
Wilson lay on his back at the 
end of a driveway. Half his body was in the road next to his broken 
cellphone, according to the report.
The officer parked behind Wil-
son and turned on his emergency 
lights, according to the report. Wil-son – whom the officer described as extremely intoxicated – woke up and cursed at the officer before walking into the road.
The officer grabbed Wilson, 
who then hugged the officer tightly and tried to punch him several times, according to the report.The officer tackled and hit Wil-
son before holding him on the ground, according to the report.
Three more officers soon ar-
rived to help handcuff and arrest Wilson as 
he continued to 
resist. 
Later, Wil-
son told police he didn’t know where he was or why he was 
in Gainesville, according to the re-port.
Police arrested Wilson on 
charges of battery on an officer, re-sisting an officer with violence and resisting an officer without vio-lence. He was taken to the Alachua County Jail where he was released on his own recognizance Sunday.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Man bear-
hugs, then hits officer
It’s part of a local food weekWilson
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The illusions we look to uphold as travelers
“It is lack of imagination that makes us 
come to imagined places, not just stay at home?”
— Elizabeth Bishop, “Questions of 
Travel”
Waiting in a lengthy line at Paris Orly Inter-
national Airport, my eyes were drawn to a travel pillow, a blanket and a sweater, all of which pro-duced an inimitable combination of royal blue and Velveeta orange.
Flanking me in line were three varieties of 
Gator tourist. First, the Southern couple, returning from a honeymoon in Italy and France. The husband, a Hungry Man of a human being, Alabama-born and Gainesville-rot-
ted, boasted, “Baby can cook better chicken parm’ than the 
Italians.” They’d loved Venice and Paris. Second, there was the backpacker couple, sporting shit-faced grins as they de-claimed the wonders of Prague. Lastly, the undergraduates, ﬁ  nding and discovering themselves with the soft yet ﬁ  rm support of their Gator neck pillows.
In a particularly harsh way, this spontaneous community 
of Gators invaded on my image of myself: The lone girl, half-pretending to read an André Gide novel, guarding her anach-
ronistic and impractical leather suitcase. Beyond the animal-
istic pleasures of excess drinking and tourist trap eating, all seven of us had come to Europe to say something about our-selves. In so doing, we fell prey to the myth of travel.
If the city is the stronghold of provinciality, the road is the 
stronghold of the home. The traveler leaves port, laden with her image not only of Paris but of herself in Paris; not only of Europe but of herself, dynamized, crystallized, actualized in Europe. Our expectation of some earth-shaking epiphany 
leaves us desperate to discover something different. The 
availability heuristic invades, and we report back that Pari-sians are slender, well-coiffed and delicately dressed in gos-samer fabrics of subtle shades. The obstacle of observation trips us up, and we report back that Parisians are rude, short-tempered and superior.
We travelers categorize the foreigners we meet, reducing 
them to one more paradigmatic example of a general truth. We recite: Germans are cold, Slavs are open, Americans are puppy dogs. This leap to culture can blind us to the individuality of those we meet, leaving us with friendships that are merely trophies to display on a shelf.
Perhaps this impulse to ﬁ  nd difference leads 
to the second symptom of the traveler: his chau-vinism. Pushkin penned his odes to Russia only once in exile, and I never feel more American than when I speak to a French person about America. For us from Florida — a land where his-
tory is as thin as the candy on an M&M — perhaps travel’s real value is its creation of a home. Holographic, composite, constructed for an audience of anyone, this homeland is no 
more true or false than any nostalgia.
Is travel a ﬂ  imsy compensation for spiritual failure? Is 
there something silly and sad about our geographical fal-
lacies, our collective illusion that we ﬁ  nd something real, gratifying and authentic in a simple change of space, in the multiplication of backdrop?
I want to tell every French person who tells me “Mi-
ami, j’adore!” that Miami isn’t just the slice of hyperreality by the bay, but the Haitian immigrants holding up “Park-
ing $5” signs next to the hulking, wasteful, ample baseball 
stadium parking garages; it’s the Hialeah Cubans who will never leave Hialeah, let alone Miami; it’s the comatose ad-dicts steps away from the University of Miami Health Sys-tem. It’s the sheer geographic and social conﬁ  nement of the city — sprawling, inhuman, indifferent. Why would anyone visit that Miami?
A traveler can never know the real of anywhere, insofar 
as real life is the life of repetition. Real life is disenchanted. 
Of course, there is some value to going unstuck — as a lone 
traveler, especially, it’s remarkable how quickly real life fades and dulls, like oils under thinner. But is what replaces it any truer, or is the psyche of the traveler a palimpsest of half-truths and half-lies, sketched in broad strokes and never revised?
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Don’t be a Ted Cruz
Here at the Alligator, we’re often accused of being a bastion of frightful liberal bias. We like to think we’re just empathetic to the less fortunate and are willing to call current events and public ﬁ  gures as we see them, but hey, to each their own.
We’re also aware that some believe we let liberal politi-
cians in the U.S. — if such a thing, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Ma., excepted, even truly exists — off the hook for their transgressions, reserving our vitriol solely for conservative politicians and persons of importance. Although this isn’t necessarily true — we are more than happy to praise individuals such as Rep. Vern Bu-chanan, R-Sarasota, who spoke out against the reclassiﬁ  ca-tion of Florida’s manatee population — we will concede that, 
more often than not, individuals who make blanketly racist 
statements try to curb civil liberties in the name of religious freedom and deny climate change tend to rouse our ire.
For those of you who belong to the aforementioned 
school of thought, don’t worry, we’ll be getting around to refuting Hillary Clinton’s political history and undue inﬂ  u-ence over the Democratic Party soon enough. In the mean-time, although we hate to disappoint, we’d like to talk about a different politician who can teach us all a valuable lesson: 
Sen. Ted Cruz.
With the Trump Train seemingly slowing down, Cruz’s 
victory in Iowa has propelled him into the national spotlight. 
As is customary, several articles, reports and think pieces have been drafted on the man’s history, politics and persona.
Last Friday, Jezebel — the BuzzFeed of feminist journal-
ism — published a piece titled, “Here’s What Happens When You Try and Track Down a Ted Cruz College Rumor.” Over the course of nearly 2,600 words, comprising primarily of 
quotes from several of Cruz’s undergraduate classmates at 
Princeton University, a particularly… interesting — we’re being generous here — picture emerges. Rather than tell you about them, we’d rather just show you:
“Everyone in my class that I’ve talked to is horriﬁ  ed that 
he’s a candidate,” said an alumnus named Leonard Nalencz.
“I tried not to know him,” said an anonymous woman 
who lived in Cruz’s dorm.
Speaking on attending a public policy conference and law 
course with Cruz, where he was apparently one to speak over professors and peers in order to dominate the dialogue, one anonymous alumnus noted he “had a complete allergy towards the (law) profession when it was over.”
Other anecdotes alternatively refer to Cruz as “creepy” 
and an “odious ﬁ  gure.” One particularly revealing story tells of Cruz reducing a peer to tears after telling her that her mother “was going to hell and was a whore” for having had an abortion.
For the sake of space and focus, we’re not really going 
to touch on how hated Cruz is among the Republican Party, how avowed progressive and fellow evangelical Jimmy Cart-er said he’d rather see Donald Trump as president or how his own daughter seems reluctant to be on the receiving end of his affections. Instead, we’d like for you, our fellow Gators, to take note of Cruz’s reputation among his Princeton col-leagues and interpret it as a foreboding fable: Be careful not to become “that guy” or “that girl.”
When in the pursuit of attaining gratifying achievement 
and success, it is easy to become insular and self-serving: But who among us wants to graduate from UF with few who would speak to our positive qualities and traits? College presents a rare opportunity to hone one’s social skills and learn about people or ways of life different from your own; we’re not sure if calling a classmate’s mother “a whore” is the best utilization of that opportunity. Want to learn how to win friends and inﬂ  uence people? Don’t be a Ted Cruz.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As I near the end of my 
undergraduate career, lots of young people — I 
guess “young-er people” 
would be more accurate 
— have come to me asking for advice.
“What should I do to get the 
most out of my time here at UF? Can you just give me some guid-ance?”
On the one hand, I’m ﬂ  attered these 
young people would misplace their conﬁ  -dence with an opinions columnist. On the other hand, I’m rather annoyed at their in-quiries. People on their deathbeds are asked 
these kinds of questions, not a spry, intel-
ligent, good-looking, energetic young man hoping for “world domination” and trying to “rule everything.”
I tell these youngsters to go out, prowl 
about campus and search for a mentor. Just try to look for someone to inspire you, push you and believe in you. Find someone wiser than you. With that criteria, I bet you have 
a lot of options.
It doesn’t have to be a tenured professor. 
More often than not, it isn’t. And it doesn’t 
have to be a coach, either. I doubt peanut butter and jelly parables can be used in 
many different contexts.
But go out, be fruitful and look. It’s go-
ing to be hard. I know this because I’ve 
tried myself. I’ve been to my fair share of 
awkward ofﬁ  ce hours. I had professors look 
inconvenienced when I appeared in their ofﬁ  ce just wanting to chat. One professor rolled his eyes when I said I had a few non-curriculum-related questions for him.
This happens more than you realize. But 
when you ﬁ  nd that person, it makes it all the more worth the struggle.
For me, that person was Dr. Emma 
Humphries from the Bob Graham Center for Public Service. In brief, Dr. Humphries opened my eyes, inspired me and believed in me. I know this may seem a little gushy coming from a grizzled, crotchety newspa-
per conservative; it may seem that way, but 
I mean it with the utmost sincerity.
Before I worked with Dr. Humphries, I 
thought I knew a lot about politics. 
I was very mistaken. Under her purview, my knowl-
edge about civics and civic en-gagement broadened and deep-
ened — and for that matter, so 
did my love of the ﬁ  eld. Because of her, I appreciate civic life and public service that much more. 
My education was enriched be-
cause of the projects I worked on with her, such as voter registra-
tion, studying food insecurity and encourag-ing millennials to actually vote. She opened 
my eyes not only to what politics already is, 
but what it can and ought to strive to be.
Dr. Humphries also inspired me: During 
her farewell luncheon, she presented her 
lunch cohorts with a pin in the shape of a 
ladder. She told us when we reach the top of that ladder — she’s very conﬁ  dent we will — we should make sure we hold it for oth-ers. True success isn’t measured in scaling 
that ladder, it’s about how many people you 
help up. She gave us not one, but two pins: one for us and one for someone we helped.
Dr. Humphries believed in me. She was 
kind enough to write my letter of recom-mendation for law school. That’s a pretty brave task considering, one, it’s for yours truly, and, two, we deﬁ  nitely don’t need more lawyers in American society.
Remember all of those inconvenienced 
professors during ofﬁ  ce hours? I really don’t think they cared that much for me and cer-tainly would not have done anything for 
me. But my mentor did. She was even over-
ly gracious about my accomplishments — especially my columns — when she didn’t need to be complimentary. But that’s just who she is. And after years of rejection from 
faculty, that meant a lot to me — still does.   
The moral of this column is undergradu-
ates should try to ﬁ  nd such ﬁ  gures of their 
own. It’s worth it.
Dr. Humphries will forever be inextrica-
bly linked to my undergraduate career. She made my time here memorable, more enjoy-able and that much richer. And as a token of my thanks, I’m going to try to hold up a few 
ladders of my own. I deﬁ  nitely learned from 
the best; she held one up for me.   
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.Make the most of UF: Find a mentorColumn
When there is a health crisis, the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention are often 
looked to as a voice 
of reason. In light of the move-ment attempting to link autism 
to vaccines, the centers heavily 
emphasized the importance of vaccinations on herd immunity. This past week, they came out with a rec-ommendation that women who are sexu-
ally active, but not on birth control, should 
not drink alcohol because any amount of alcohol could be potentially harmful. The CDC reasoned, “Why take the risk?”
The CDC’s recommendations are fu-
eling hysteria about the effects of light drinking for pregnant women. 
According to Aaron Carroll, a pediat-
ric physician, the speciﬁ  c points articu-
lated make sense on the surface: Women 
may not know they are pregnant, and if drinking while not on birth control, there is a chance they may be pregnant, in turn 
causing their baby to develop fetal alco-
hol spectrum disorders. However, he also said, “If we want to reduce (FASDs), and get the most bang for our buck, it’s worth starting with the too-many women who 
binge drink while they’re pregnant.”
Rather than focusing on moderate 
drinkers who may slip and have a drink 
before they realize they are pregnant, the 
CDC should focus on the much larger prob-
lem of binge drinking, which is unlikely to be remedied by their recommendation. 
The CDC’s argument oversteps, be-
cause rather than deal with a pre-existing 
and considerable problem, it instead cre-
ates one. By creating a harsh and nigh-im-possible-to-meet standard, they decrease the likelihood of people who will actually 
follow their advice.
Of course it is possible for a woman to 
unknowingly drink while pregnant, but 
studies about the effects of light drinking on unborn children are mixed as to what 
the exact repercussions are.  
According to Melinda Wenner Moyer’s 
article “To Drink or not To Drink?” in Sci-
entiﬁ  c American, these experiments are 
hard to conduct because they cannot have random assignment to groups, 
so they must use women who choose to drink or abstain from 
alcohol. The women who choose 
to drink might engage in other behaviors that have a negative effect on their child. It has not 
been conclusively shown that 
light drinking presents major issues in terms of fetal develop-
ment. 
These standards deﬂ  ect focus from a 
more substantive problem and only in-crease scrutiny on pregnant women, who already have many of their choices cri-tiqued in the media: to breastfeed or not to 
breastfeed, to swaddle or not to swaddle, 
to name one’s children freely without fear of mockery.
While the information used to back up 
the recommendations is sound, it rings 
draconian and fails to address the actual 
and more well-deﬁ  ned problem, which is binge drinking while pregnant. According to The New York Times, the CDC itself has 
admitted the released guidelines are not as 
clear as they had intended them to be. 
The CDC’s job is to issue recommenda-
tions that they obviously has no power to enforce. Because of this, as well as the se-
verely limiting nature of their recommen-
dation, it will likely only affect those who are already health-conscious. Instead of offering a nuanced solution, the CDC has 
managed only to induce paranoia by set-
ting an impossible standard.
Instead of tackling FASDs with guide-
lines that will be ignored by those who induce the very problem the CDC wants 
to rectify, the government must be more 
pragmatic and address this from a policy standpoint: What programs can be put into place in order to decrease binge drink-
ing among pregnant women? What public 
service announcements would serve to educate women about the pain induced by FASDs? 
The pre-existing guidelines only come 
off as hollow when they are dubious at best and unattainable at worst.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-
days.CDC recommendations are misguidedColumn
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.orgNicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgKISHAN PATEL
Student Body treasurer candidate
Kishan Patel put his passion for dancing on pause to help  
student organizations get funding from Student Government.
Patel, a 20-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering 
sophomore, said he made the decision to quit GatoRaas, a UF 
dance group, because he wanted to serve the Student Body.
“I just like doing something that’s better for students,” he 
said.
At his high school, Patel was class president for three years. 
He said he knew coming into UF he wanted to play an active role in SG. During his first semester, he interviewed for a soph-omore Senate seat with Swamp Party, but he wasn’t chosen. In the Spring, he successfully interviewed with Access Party and ran for a sophomore seat, which he won by four votes.
“When they started, I really loved what they were about,” 
he said, but things changed over the summer as Access estab-lished a presence in the Senate chamber. “I soon realized the way the leadership was moving. To me, it wasn’t for every Gator.”
As Patel completed his freshman year, he said he watched 
Access’ leadership become radical. During the Summer, he 
said he watched as Access senators argued for the sake of ar-
guing and held agency head positions open for 105 days. But he said both parties were to blame.
“I blame it on both sides, but I think that was a lack of vi-
sion on the side of Access,” Patel said.
Last Spring, he became treasurer of the Indian Student As-
sociation, where he learned about the inner workings of how an organization’s budget was funded by SG. Patel was later 
elected to the Budget and Appropriations Committee during 
the Summer, where he said he’s learned about how the $21 million budget is allocated.
“I think that that experience is what will allow me to han-
dle this money in the most effective and the most responsible way,” he said.
During the Fall, he said he wanted to help Access get back 
on track, so he became the party’s treasurer. But he said the conflicts continued, and Access no longer represented what he 
felt it stood for at the beginning.
“I blame that on the leadership of Access, and I did the best 
I could as the party treasurer,” he said.
After the Fall semester, he said he made the decision to run 
with Impact Party, which emerged that semester. Patel said he 
watched the new party make differences, creating the Men-tal Health Awareness Committee and the Diversity Outreach Committee.
“I think the Impact Party is really about tangible change. 
To me, they really get the job done,” he said.
Student Body Vice President Kevin Doan said he met Pa-
tel when they both campaigned for Access last Spring. And although Patel is a sophomore, Doan said Patel’s experiences and qualification make him a good candidate.
“I think what makes Kishan so successful is he’s always 
willing to learn,” he said. “He’s always one to ask questions and always think on how he can get better so he can ulti-mately better serve everyone else.”SUSAN WEBSTER
Student Body presidential candidate
For Susan Webster, going to UF is a family tradition.
The fourth-generation Gator is now running for Student 
Body president with Impact Party because she wants to repre-
sent students across the university.
“I’ve loved this campus since I was a little kid,” the 22-year-
old international studies senior said. “It’s been a place where 
I’ve always been proud to be a Gator, but I’ve never been more proud than the moment I stepped on this campus, hold-ing my backpack in hand and I was a student.”
As a freshman, she joined Alpha Delta Pi, the same so-
rority as her mom. She also joined Senate as a replacement senator for a freshman seat during her Fall semester. She later 
joined the Budget and Appropriations Committee, as well as 
the Judiciary Committee, and became immersed in Student Government culture.
“Truly, I don’t apply for something on a whim,” Webster 
said. “I make sure it’s something I want to do and I could do a good job at it.”
During her sophomore year in 2014, she served as chair-
woman of the Rules and Procedures Committee and director of lobbying and state affairs for SG’s external affairs.
Her junior year, she ran with Swamp Party during the 
Spring 2015 elections, where she lost her seat to Access Party senators. The loss was a setback.
“It wasn’t easy coming back in,” she said. She lost her po-
sition as chairwoman of the Budget and Appropriations Com-mittee, but she continued getting student organizations on the budget cycle to make sure they were ready for hearings.
However, it wasn’t the end of Webster’s time in Senate. 
She said her friends convinced her she needed to represent 
students. After getting the replacement senator position for 
District A in the Spring, Webster said she watched as a new party formed — one that she said was looking to stop the con-flict in Senate: Impact Party.
“I thought that mission was great, something I’ve always 
stood for, so I hopped on board at the beginning with the Im-pact Party,” she said. She was then voted in as Senate presi-dent by majority vote Oct. 7.
Clay Hurdle, 21, met Webster last Fall in a class for the 
J. Wayne Reitz Scholars Program. He said the first time they met, she gave him a huge smile and hug. When he found out she was running, the UF agricultural education and commu-nication and Spanish senior said he was sold by her passion.
“I’m really excited, quite honestly,” Hurdle said. “I think 
the world of her. I know that once she’s elected, she’s going to do what’s necessary to achieve the goals of positively affecting the Student Body and the University of Florida as a whole.”
As Senate president, Webster started the Mental Health 
Awareness Committee and the Diversity Outreach Commit-tee. Webster said she’s running for Student Body president because she feels she can make change possible for students.
“Being a Student Body president, it’s so much more than 
yourself,” she said. “You are the student voice, and I’ve done so many things to help move our university forward. I can advocate well for students because this isn’t my first time do-ing it.”LILLIAN ROZSA
Student Body treasurer candidate
The first time Lillian Rozsa didn’t exercise her right to vote 
was when she came to UF. As a freshman, she didn’t want to vote for the single-party system in Senate, which was run by Swamp Party.
“I was dissatisfied, almost angry,” she said. So she didn’t 
vote. It wasn’t until Access Party came along that she felt rep-resented in Student Government.
Rozsa is now running for Student Body treasurer with Ac-
cess. She said the party’s ideals let her express her own.
“They were saying things I had thought,” she said.
The 20-year-old UF political science and women’s studies 
sophomore said when she turned 18, she voted in every type 
of election, because she believes everyone should vote. 
She got involved with Access as a freshman in Spring 2015 
working as a volunteer. This past Fall, Rozsa interviewed with Access for a District D senator seat and won with 755 votes.
“I really got into Student Government because I noticed 
that it wasn’t working for a lot of students, like myself, who didn’t agree with a single party (system),” she said.
The West Palm Beach native grew up learning to ask criti-
cal questions from her mom, who also attended UF.
As a freshman, Rozsa said in order to make an effort to 
get involved on campus, she joined UF’s Women’s Student Association, where she is now the vice president. She said the organization allows women to fight for gender equality. 
But she noticed there was no space for men or other gen-
ders to help the movement, so she founded the UF chapter of HeForShe, a United Nations campaign inviting all genders to help create gender equality. Rozsa said she understands how a student organization can start from nothing and become suc-cessful. As founder and president of UF’s HeForShe, she’s seen 
her organization grow over the year.
Dani Gennaro, the president of WSA, said she’s seen Rozsa 
become a leader through events. She said Rozsa organized 
Feminist Fun Friday last Fall, an event that raised awareness about feminism on the Plaza of Americas. She dealt with fund-ing for the event — and Gennaro said she did it with ease.
“One thing that’s always stood out to me was her ability to 
balance her schedule,” Gennaro said, adding that she wasn’t surprised when she found out Rozsa was running for Student 
Body treasurer.
“She really has shown that she cares about individuals as 
well as people in organizations,” the 21-year-old UF finance 
and women’s studies senior said. “Her ability to reach out and relate to people is really, really strong.”
Rozsa said she understands the difficulties students face 
when trying to start an organization. She hopes to make the process more transparent and easier for students.
“I want to build relationships with student organizations 
from the first day I take office,” she said.
Rozsa, who became a Florida Cicerone this semester, said 
she’s excited to bring understanding, transparency and effi-ciency to SG.
“I think what keeps me going is that I believe in everything 
I’m doing,” she said. “I love democracy so much, and I think really that’s worth fighting for here.”HAMMAAD SABER
Student Body vice presidential candidate
Ever since high school, Hammaad Saber has been set on 
becoming an engineer.
The Student Body vice presidential candidate, running 
with Access Party, said his education at UF and intern-
ships have taught him how to put on events that will bring in students. He said he hopes to bring his skills to Student 
Government.
“I want to use my skillset to take any problem, get any 
kind of solution that we’re looking for and maximize efficien-cy, effectiveness and access,” the 22-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering senior said.
Saber said when he applied to UF, he took a leap of faith 
and joined the Innovation Academy’s first class. It was the idea of learning entrepreneurship that drew him to apply, 
along with the university’s prominent engineering curricu-
lum.
The Miami-born Pakistani said IA has been one of his de-
fining experiences at UF. Being able to start IA’s Leadership Enhancement and Development, or IA LEAD, in the Spring of his freshman year allowed him to offer IA students an organi-zation that ran on the Spring-Summer schedule.
Saber also introduced a Student Senate law that gives IA 
senators replacement senators during the Fall semester.
“Writing the bill was kind of like a way to tell the rest of 
Student Government that we have to seriously think about how IA students can be equal to non-IA students so that they don’t feel like second-rate Gators,” he said.  
David Nassau, 21, said Saber first made an impression on 
him before they even got to campus. The first IA class had a Facebook page on which students could ask questions, Nas-sau said. Being the first class, there were a lot of questions, and Saber would always be there, ready with an answer.
“He went to the length of emailing (the) IA office to get 
answers for students. Hammaad actually took it upon himself and ended up going out of his way,” Nassau, a UF marketing senior, said.
“I just really wanted to help everyone,” Saber said, add-
ing he was excited about joining the program. “I wanted to spread that positivity.”
Saber initially tried to get involved with SG his freshman 
year, but his ideas of SG didn’t match up with Swamp Party’s  
— the only party in Senate. This was until Access came along, 
giving Saber a way into SG without giving up his ideals and morals.
“If I’m going to get involved with Student Government, I 
need to be able to keep my morals, and this was a party I was able to do it with,” he said. “It was the easiest choice ever.”
He interviewed with Access in the Spring, and ran as a 
candidate for the College of Engineering. He won his seat with 706 votes. Since then, Saber said he’s tried to represent both 
his college and IA students, because he feels they’re under-
represented in Senate. He also said he hopes to bring equality and a friendly atmosphere to the cabinet positions in SG.
“That’s the bottom line,” he said. “At the end of the day, 
we’re all one team, and we all have the same goal, which is to serve the students.”KALYANI HAWALDAR
Student Body presidential candidate
Kalyani Hawaldar hopes to continue Access Party’s effort 
to make UF’s Student Government transparent.
“My biggests goals are to make sure that every student 
feels the empowerment of individuality and of their unique 
voice,” she said.  
Hawaldar said she’s running for Student Body president to 
help students at UF find their voice. The 21-year-old UF biol-
ogy and sociology senior was born in India, where she lived for four years before her parents came to the U.S. for work. By the time she came over, she already spoke Hindi and Marathi, 
a dialect of Hindi.
During her first two years, Hawaldar said she stayed away 
from SG because she didn’t agree with Swamp Party’s plat-
form. It wasn’t until Access emerged in Spring 2015 that she decided to get involved, she said.
She interviewed, but she wasn’t chosen as a candidate. 
That semester, she volunteered with Access and helped them campaign throughout the election season.
“What really propelled me was hearing stories of students 
feeling like they were either underrepresented or they didn’t 
have the same opportunities as other people did,” Hawaldar 
said.
After Access won the executive ticket and took 27 out of 
50 seats, Hawaldar looked to make change in SG. She was ap-pointed executive adviser of the Diversity Affairs Committee in April 2015, in which she chaired the task force that brought gender-neutral restrooms to UF’s campus.
She said she initially spoke to Norb Dunkel, the director of 
housing and residence education, about getting funding from UF for the bathrooms. From the beginning, Dunkel and UF administration were on board. When the task force began the 
initiative, they looked to students to find support. Hawaldar 
and the committee received about 70 letters from students sharing personal reasons for wanting single-stalled restrooms.
“It was incredible, because that really showed me how the 
work that we do in Student Government isn’t a political issue but a personal issue for students,” she said.
It was the first time she realized SG could affect the lives of 
individual students.
Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines met Hawal-
dar before Access even existed, when Hawaldar was a Pre-view staffer and Padron-Rasines worked at the UF Bookstore.
She said Hawaldar would make a great Student Body presi-
dent not only because of her strength, but also because of her compassion.
“In my mind, Kalyani isn’t doing it for the title. She’s really 
doing it for the ideals and because she cares about the Student Body,” she said, adding that Hawaldar’s ability to relate to students will help her become a good leader.
Hawaldar said she wants students’ voices to be heard, 
starting with voting. She said she wants to continue the trans-parency in SG and the experience she’s had working with dif-ferent bodies of students.
“I want to be able to take my experience as an everyday 
Gator and use that in a way that’ll benefit every single student on campus,” she said.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
Introducing Access Party’s executive ticket
 Introducing Impact Party’s executive ticket
BRENDON “BJ” JONASSAINT
Student Body vice presidential candidate
Brendon “BJ” Jonassaint was born in UF Health Shands 
Hospital. He said he’s had UF spirit running through his 
blood since he was born.
“Just because I knew anything I wanted to do, I could do 
it here,” he said. “If I really wanted to, I could do it at UF.” 
After serving as a District D senator in Fall 2014 with 
Swamp Party, Jonassaint is running for Student Body vice 
president with Impact Party because he said he feels he can provide students with the programs they want and need.
Jonassaint said he knew he wanted to be involved on 
campus since he came to the university. While at UF, he has served as a student assistant for the Dean of Students Office, 
a Preview staffer and an executive assistant for the Black Stu-
dent Union.
“It’s sort of a challenge,” he said. “I enjoy everything I 
do.”
Jonassaint, whose mother attended UF, spent most of his 
life learning Haitian Creole and living in Okeechobee, Florida.
As a member of the Newell Hall Student Advisory Board, 
he provides input for the building’s renovation. The building is being converted into a study space for students. It’s set to 
open after Jonassaint graduates, but he’s determined to help 
create a lasting space for students.
“I may not be here when it opens but the students will get 
to use that facility when it does open,” he said. “That drives me.” 
He said he wants to make students feel at home while 
they’re on campus.
“I want all the events to be something where you can go 
to it and get something out of it to help improve your life on 
campus,” Jonassaint said.
Damien Womble has been friends with Jonassaint since 
fourth grade, when the two met at school.
It wasn’t until they came to UF and joined the same frater-
nity, Alpha Phi Alpha, that the two grew close.
“UF has always been his dream school, so he knew he was 
going to end up here,” the 21-year-old UF finance junior said.
Jonassaint said it was difficult at first to choose between 
Access and Impact. His old roommate, Nicholas Carre, ran for Student Body treasurer with Access last year, which Jonas-
saint supported.
This year, he said he took a step back during the Fall se-
mester and watched tension in the Senate chamber continue.
“I thought they were a group of motivated students who 
were actually more concerned with progress,” he said.
Womble said he’s watched Jonassaint go from being a shy 
freshman to a guy who always manages to make a friend in a room full of strangers.
“For him, I feel like when he gets involved, everything gets 
his 100-percent attention,” Womble said, but he added, “I feel like he manages time very well.”
He said it’s been interesting to watch Jonassaint partici-
pate in school and continued his pursuit in SG.
“It’s crazy to me how it unfolded,” he said. “I’m still proud 
of him for setting his eyes on something.”MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Servers Needed!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
2-10-5-14
Linux SysAdminManage in house systems and dedicated cli-ent setups. Responsible for maintaining and improving the virtualization hosts, configura -
tion management and deployment automa-tion, monitoring, and backups. Research and develop new systems based on both pro-prietary and open source software. Submit resume to rebecca@acceleration.net    2-8-16-2-14
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14SUMMER JOBS starting at $220.00 per week with room and board included. Work at one of the University of Florida’s three recre-ational overnight camps located throughout the state. Staff have no cabin responsibilities and most weekends off. University of Florida 4-H Summer Program Staff are involved in teaching kayaking, team sports, arts/crafts, archery/air rifle, swimming and STEM educational classes. We are looking for ENERGETIC, CREATIVE & MATURE per-sons to help lead these youth at our facilities.
Application deadline is 2/12/16.  Apply online 
at:   florida4h.org/camps.    
IFAS Extension/4-H Youth Development is 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY INSTITUTION   2-8-16-1-14
National NPO
P/T position for social media posting, web 
content management -hours flexible. Email: 
noscarson@tna-support.org    2-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-181814 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
The No. 3 UF women's tennis 
team defeated No. 4 USC on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 14.KENTUCKY HAS WON 
33 STRAIGHT GAMES AT 
RUPP ARENA.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Rupp Arena: where a team’s 
confidence and game plan go to 
die.
That’s been true for the last 33 
straight games — in which Ken-tucky hasn’t lost on its home floor — and that was the case Saturday 
afternoon as the Wildcats over-
powered Florida.
The Gators dug themselves an 
early, deep hole that they weren’t able to climb out of. Kentucky be-
gan the game on a 24-5 run, mak-
ing 10 of its first 14 shots includ-ing four three-pointers. Florida started 1-of-7 from the field.
“I’ve lost my mind in about 
eight timeouts since then,” UF coach Mike White said, “so it’s hard for me to remember the first five minutes of the game.”
The Gators ultimately fell to 
the Wildcats 80-61 and shot just 39.6 percent from the field and 31.6 percent from beyond the arc.
To this point in the season, 
Florida (15-8, 6-4 Southeastern Conference) has relied on its de-fense to counteract poor shooting efforts in order to keep games close. The Gators had their worst 
shooting night of the season on Jan. 26 at Vanderbilt, but lost 
by just one point. Against Texas A&M, Florida mustered up just 68 points and lost by three.The Florida State loss on Dec. 
29, the Michigan State loss on Dec. 12 and even the Miami loss on Dec. 8 were all exceptionally poor shooting performances that were nearly rescued by strong de-fense. 
That formula couldn’t save the 
Gators in Lexington.
Freshman Jamal Murray led 
the way for Kentucky (17-6, 7-3 
SEC) with 35 points, tying a UK 
freshman scoring record held by Terrence Jones. Sophomore Tyler Ulis added a double-double with 18 points and 11 assists.
It was an offensive outburst 
that Florida’s defense couldn’t contain.
“Jamal Murray stole the 
show,” White said. “I think he’s still open right now. Never been a part of anything like that. Very, very discouraged. It’s like we didn’t know that he was a good 
shooter.”
Entering Saturday’s game, 
the Gators had won two straight 
games and five of their previous 
six. Kentucky had dropped two 
in a row on the road and, com-ing back home, had something to prove. A sense of achievement and overconfidence may have 
backfired on Florida.
The Gators have now given up 
at least 80 points in back-to-back 
games. Prior to those two, Florida 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF women's golf completes round one of tourney 
The Florida women's golf team finished round one of the Northrop-Grum-
man Regional Challenge with a team score of three over par. Junior Kelly Grassel and freshman Sam Wagner finished with a team-best one under par.AP Photo
Florida coach Mike White watches his team during the second half of the Gators' 80-61 loss to Ken-
tucky on Saturday in Rupp Arena in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Romped at Rupp: Florida falls to Kentucky on road
LACROSSE
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
For just the third time in the program’s 
seven-year history, the No. 7 Florida la-
crosse team came out of its regular-season 
opener with a win. 
Mollie Stevens’ career-high five goals 
gave Florida a 15-6 victory over No. 13 
Loyola as the team heads into its second 
week of play.
Stevens’ effort came in the team’s first 
game following the departure of Shannon 
Gilroy, Florida’s all-time leading goal scorer. But Stevens doesn’t see herself as Gilroy’s 
sole replacement.
She sees every player on the team as a 
threat to score whenever the opportunity 
may arise. 
Nevertheless, her career day could be at-
tributed in part to her work with the U.S. Women's National Team in the offseason. 
“That was a wake-up call, just being around players like that,” Stevens said of her time with the national squad. “Every-one’s good so you can’t take a play off and 
I think that’s really helped me improve my 
game.”
But Stevens’ performance was just one 
aspect of Saturday’s game that went well 
for Florida against one of the nation’s top 
teams. 
Of the Gators’ 15 goals, nine were pre-
ceded by an assist, with three coming off the stick of junior attacker Sammi Burgess.
While the sample size was small, that 
number far exceeded last season's goal-to-assist ratio of 41 percent.
Florida head coach Amanda O’Leary did 
not hesitate to give credit to assistant coach Crysti Foote for preparing the team’s offen-sive gameplan. Foote is in her first season at UF following a four-year stint as an of-fensive coordinator and assistant coach at 
Louisville.Gators open season with win
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
On a team as stacked as Florida's, 
there are two newcomers that have stood 
out during Fall practice: freshmen pitch-
ers Brady Singer and Jackson Kowar. 
Both of them were highly successful 
in high school, dominating opposing hit-
ters. 
Singer finished his senior year at Eus-
tis High in Leesburg, Florida, with an 8-3 record and a 1.25 ERA. 
He also amassed six complete games 
and 110 strikeouts in 67 innings. 
Kowar was also almost unhittable 
during his senior year at Charlotte Chris-tian School in North Carolina. 
The 6-foot-5 right hander went 10-1 
with a school-record 0.20 ERA and had 118 strikeouts in 71 innings. 
Following their successful senior 
years, both of them were drafted in the 
2015 MLB Draft. 
Singer was drafted in the second 
round by the Toronto Blue Jays, while 
Kowar was taken in the 40th round by 
the Detroit Tigers. 
But instead of going pro, they decided 
that it would be better for their long-term 
futures to attend Florida — a team al-
ready loaded with talent. 
And they haven’t let the other players 
on the team intimidate them. Pair of freshmen pitchers 
impressing for UF baseballSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
“(It’s) a lot different than facing some 
of the other freshmen.”
Ryan Larson
Junior Outfielder
SEE LAX,  PAGE 15 SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 15By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
After a harrowing loss at the 
hands of the No. 11 Georgia Bulldogs 
on Friday night, the No. 2 Florida gymnastics team needs to find out what follows in the aftermath of de-
feat. 
Dropping a contest to its neigh-
boring rival for the first time since 
2009, the Gators were unceremoni-ously brought back to earth follow-ing a searing 4-0 start. 
They unraveled in the meet’s fi-
nal rotation.
Two costly slip-ups on the bal-
ance beam were punished by five season-high performances on the Stegeman Coliseum floor for the Bulldogs (3-3, 3-1 Southeastern Con-ference). 
Florida had its chances. The Gators (4-1, 2-1 SEC) had 
their opponents on the ropes throughout the first three rounds of 
action. 
They were simply unable to land 
a knockout blow in a third rotation 
that saw two Georgia gymnasts suf-fer three falls. 
And with a 0.900-point cushion 
to burn, the Gators were rattled by a rowdy sell-out crowd of 10,224, the largest audience Florida has per-formed in front of this year. 
“It was a really big crowd and 
the Stegeman Coliseum was in full force,” UF coach Jenny Rowland 
said. “It was really loud and our 
team had to perform under the pres-sure of competing on beam after some big floor scores by Georgia.
“(I) thought it was handled pretty well. There were some bumps and bruises and some misses here and there.”
Hobbled by illness, the Gators 
were undermanned in the penulti-mate rotation. Usually rock solid in her execution, senior Bridget Sloan stumbled, her upper thigh cramp-ing on the final tumbling pass of her floor routine, tripping her up and docking her score to an event-low 9.525.
And, with flu-like symptoms rear-
ing their ugly head, senior Bridgette Caquatto was unable to anchor the lineup, forcing freshman Ashley Hiller into just her second event of the season and first since competing on the floor at Texas Woman’s Uni-versity. 
Even in that crucial fourth rota-
tion, bright spots marked a seem-
ingly dark outing. 
“I thought the team came to-
gether well,” Rowland said follow-
ing sophomore Kennedy Baker’s mishap on the beam. “Peyton Ernst came back solid as can be. Ericha Fassbender had an amazing beam performance tonight — she looked so confident up there. Alicia Boren 
really had a great routine going up 
until her dismount.”
Among those performances was a 
title-clinching 9.875 from Sloan, who fought through discomfort to clinch the 78th event win of her career. 
In the wake of their closest defeat 
in eight years, the Gators have a per-fect opportunity to bounce back. 
The team hasn’t lost consecutive 
meets since 2006, and with a home date against Arkansas coming up this Friday, Florida will be looking to answer that bell.
“There are a lot of things we can 
learn from,” Rowland said. “There were some stellar performances fol-lowing some mistakes. 
“Bouncing back and rebounding 
is really what this sport is all about.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgBy Jake Dreilinger
Staff Writer
Leading 6-0, senior Brianna 
Morgan was up 6-5 in the third set of Florida’s final match. And after numerous rallies, Morgan hit one home, clinching the sweep for UF. 
Although the No. 3 Gators (3-0) 
defeated No. 4 Southern California (2-2) 7-0 on Sunday at the Ring Tennis Complex, the dual match 
was closer than the score indicated.
In doubles, the No. 5 tandem 
of sophomore Brooke Austin and 
junior Kourtney Keegan faced the No. 4 pairing of Giuliana Olmos and Gabby Smith.
After the score was tied at 4-4, 
Austin and Keegan took the next two games, winning 6-4.
“Obviously (USC) is a very 
good team, and I know coming in 
we wanted to use this just to see 
what our team can do,” Austin said. “We knew we were a very good team and I think today sort of justified what we can do.”
The No. 15 duo of sophomore 
Josie Kuhlman and junior Belinda Woolcock defeated USC’s Zoe Katz and Jessica Failla 6-4 in another 
close match that saw four ties, giv-
ing the Gators a 1-0 lead.
In singles, No. 110 Sophomore 
Anna Danilina quickly routed USC’s No. 48 Rianna Valdes 6-2, 6-0 in a match that never saw a lead change. Neither player could take a commanding lead in the first 
set between No. 56 Kuhlman and 
No. 49 Madison Westby. After four ties and two lead changes, Kuhl-man took the first set 6-4. 
Kuhlman then defeated Westby 6-1 in the second set to give the Gators a 3-0 lead.
In the closest match of the day, 
USC’s No. 42 Giuliana Olmos took No. 11 Brooke Austin to the brink. The first set, which saw five ties, was a close 7-6 decision in favor of 
Austin. Hitting her stride, Austin 
took the second set 6-4, clinching the win for the Gators for the first time this season.
No. 25 Keegan defeated No. 76 
Failla 6-2, 6-4 to give the Gators a 5-0 lead in a dominating perfor-mance.
No. 3 Belinda Woolcock defeat-
ed Smith 6-4, 6-3, giving Florida a 6-0 lead and leaving it only one win away from a sweep. 
Up 3-0 against No. 114 Katz, 
No. 51 Morgan would go on to lose the next six games, dropping the first set 6-3. She bounced back in the next set, forcing a third set with a 6-3 win. Jumping out to a 
3-0 lead, Morgan would drop the 
next five games.
But Morgan would go on on to 
win her next four games, taking set three 7-5 and completing the sweep.
“We were really excited for this 
match, because I feel like it was the first real challenge for us, and 
I thought we all did a great job 
coming out strong in singles and doubles,” Kuhlman said. 
The Gators take the court again 
Feb. 13 at 12 p.m. against No. 15 Baylor and Feb. 14 at 1 p.m. against No. 20 Clemson at the Ring Tennis Complex. 
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brianna Morgan returns a ball during Florida’s win against 
USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan performs on the balance beam during UF’s win against Arkansas on Jan. 29.
No. 2 Gators lose to No. 11 Georgia, earn first loss of seasonGYMNASTICSBy Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Florida’s track and field teams ended the Vir-
ginia Tech Elite Meet on Saturday with a record-
breaking outing for two of its weight throwers. 
On Friday, redshirt freshman AJ McFarland 
placed 10th with a mark of 18.98 meters in the 
men’s weight throw, his second collegiate com-
petition. With that mark, McFarland moved to No. 6 on Florida’s all-time indoor top 10. 
In the women’s weight throw, sophomore 
Lloydricia Cameron finished in ninth place with a best mark of 17.90 meters, while redshirt fresh-man Jontavia Dykes finished 11th with her 17.81-meter toss. The Gators continued success on Saturday when Cameron placed second in 
the women’s shot put with a best mark of 16.30 
meters, narrowly missing the 16.49-meter mark set by Tennessee’s Cassie Wertman. Cameron’s mark ranks No. 22 in the NCAA this season.
Now the Gators will have the week to prepare 
for their final two meets before the Southeastern Conference Championships: the Iowa State Clas-sic and the Tyson Invitational, both of which start on Friday.
Florida found success at both meets last 
season. At the Iowa State Classic, then-senior Mark Parrish broke his own school record in the 5,000-meter run with a time of 13:41.87, while Jimmy Clark (14:04.53) and Eddie Garcia (14:14.84) landed in UF’s all-time top-10 list in the same race. Andres Arroyo and Ryan Schnulle also cracked the top-five of UF’s all-time record book in the 800-meter dash.
At the Tyson Invitational the Gators posted 
eight top-five finishes in field events while then-junior Kyra Jefferson set the NCAA and world-best time for 2015 in the women’s 200-meter dash by crossing the line in 22.81 seconds.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgUF sees success at 
weekend meetMorgan clinches match, Florida sweeps USC  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Instead, they’ve excelled, 
and Florida's hitters have taken 
notice.
“(It’s) a lot different than 
facing some of the other fresh-men,” junior outfielder Ryan 
Larson said. 
“I think they’re a little more 
mature and a little more ad-
vanced, the stuff that they have 
and how they go about their 
business. They definitely have matured very quickly.”
Larson said one of the rea-
sons Singer and Kowar matured 
and have been so effective dur-
ing practice is that Florida's older pitchers have begun to mentor them.
One of those veteran pitch-
ers is staff ace Logan Shore. 
Shore has stepped up as a 
leader for the Gators during the offseason and has been im-
pressed with the freshmen — 
especially Singer.  
“It’s electric,” Shore said of 
Singer's stuff. 
“You guys have seen it and 
you will see it this year. He’s 94-95 with a changeup and a slider, so it’s pretty impressive for a freshman.”
Relief pitcher Shaun Ander-
son has also been impressed with Singer’s ability.
“I mean, I haven’t seen him 
throw actual live games, only against our hitters,” Anderson said. 
“Against our hitters he’s 
been pretty effective. He had a really good fall, but we’ll see how he does in the spring.”
As Anderson mentioned, 
facing players on your own team during simulated games is one thing, but those situations pale in comparison to facing 
hitters on opposing teams.
Expectations for Singer and 
Kowar are high, and handling 
the burden of Southeastern Conference play and postsea-
son baseball will be their ulti-
mate  goal.
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 13Both freshmen were 
taken in 2015 MLB Draft
“She’s been working with each 
and every one of (the players), giv-
ing them kind of the confidence that any one of them can have the ball in their stick,” O’Leary said. “It’s just as important to make an assist as it is to score a goal.”
The freshman class was well-represented during Saturday’s con-test, even though just four of 11 newcomers saw action. 
Midfielder Sydney Pirreca 
scored the Gators’ final goal of the game, midfielder Lindsey Ronbeck produced four shots, handled two draw controls and forced two turn-overs, and freshman goalie Haley 
Hicklen let in just two goals while 
playing the entire second half.
But while Florida controlled 
the game from start to finish, the 
Gators still have room to improve 
— especially when it comes to turnovers. A clean first half was followed by a sloppy second half in which the Gators turned the ball 
over 10 times, with five of those 
lost possessions occurring on un-forced errors.
O’Leary sees the turnovers as 
mental mistakes.
“It’s not as if our sticks are let-
ting us down,” O’Leary said. “I think our brains kind of go on hold for a second and we’re just mak-
ing kind of bad decisions. … That’s 
something we really, really need to address in the next week.”
Florida will have a week to 
make improvements, as the Gators host Michigan on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgLAX,  from pg 13Four of UF's 11 freshmen played Saturdayhad surrendered 80-plus points just twice all season.
“Whatever we’re thinking about, if we’re not thinking 
about doing our job defensively at a really high level on a 
consistent basis, we’re thinking about the wrong things,” 
White said. 
“That’s got to be our identity. We’re not good enough 
offensively, we’re not good enough in several areas, to not 
be great defensively.”
Dorian Finney-Smith was the lone bright spot for the 
Gators on offense. The redshirt senior scored 24 points, 
tied for his season best, on 8-of-11 shooting and scored two of Florida’s six made three-pointers.
In the second half, the Gators shot a higher field-goal 
percentage (43.5) than Kentucky (41.4) and showed some signs of fight, but the deficit Florida had dug itself with a combination of poor shooting and defense proved  to be insurmountable.
“Not that we would have won the game, by any 
stretch,” White said, “but it’s just discouraging that we weren’t even competitive.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 13Finney-Smith led 
Florida with 24 points
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith attempts a layup during Florida's win against Arkansas on Jan. 30 in the O'Connell Center. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mollie Stevens (17) runs toward the net during Florida's win against 
San Diego State last season at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
“Whatever we’re thinking about, if we’re not thinking 
about doing our job defensively at a really high level 
on a consistent basis, we’re thinking about the wrong 
things.”
Mike White
Florida men's basketball coach
“I think they’re a little more 
mature and a little more 
advanced, the stuff that they 
have and how they go about 
their business."
             Ryan Larson
 Florida junior outfielder16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
THE CHASE FOR THE THREE-PEAT BEGINS
The back-to-back national champion Florida softball team opens its 2016 season on Friday at the 
three-day USF Wilson-Demarini T ournament in T ampa with eyes on becoming just the second team in NCAA softball history to win three consecutive national titles. T o do so, the Gators will need to replace the talent of the 2015 senior class that included (from left) Lauren Haeger, Kath-lyn Medina and Bailey Castro.
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
TODAY
Women’s Golf @ Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge
TUESDAY
Men’s Basketball vs. Ole Miss, 9 p.m., ESPNU
Women’s Golf @ Northrop Grumman Regional Challenge
THURSDAY
Women’s Basketball @ South Carolina, 7 p.m., SEC Network+
FRIDAY
Gymnastics vs. Arkansas, 6:45 p.m.
Softball vs. Illinois State, 6:45 p.m. in T ampa
Track & Field @ Iowa State Classic and Tyson Invitational
SATURDAY
Softball vs. Michigan, 11:45 a.m. in T ampa
Women’s T ennis vs. Baylor, Noon
Lacrosse vs. Michigan, 1 p.m.
Men’s T ennis vs. Furman University, 4 p.m.
Men’s Basketball vs. Alabama, 5:30 p.m., SEC Network
Track & Field @ Iowa State Classic and Tyson Invitational