We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 146 THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
Florida to face UNF in NCAAs
Freshman Alfredo Perez went undefeated at 
the SEC T ournament, pg. 22
Crime roundup
Fights, burglaries and other crime, pgs. 8-9
Developing a marijuana breathalyzer
UF researchers look to create the device, pg. 10Veterans for Peace poetry contest
Students will recite their winning poems, pg. 4
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
LEAN WITH IT 
Chris De Vilbiss, a 29-year-old UF alumnus with a doctorate in environmental engineering, leads a 
group of students on the North Lawn in what he said was the patita trikonasana pose, also known as the fallen triangle. His favorite pose is “whichever pose allows me to sit more comfortably and ﬁ  rmly. ”
By Kelby Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Netﬂ  ix has announced it will be raising 
its prices starting this month. Previously, the massively popular streaming service cost $7.99 for two HD screens. Those who paid the original price were grandfathered in when the price rose. But starting soon, this will no longer be the case. 
Now, paying $7.99 each month will grant customers one standard-deﬁ  nition screen. Two HD screens will cost $9.99 a month. Paying $11.99 each month will grant view-ers 4 Ultra-HD — or 4K — screens. Netﬂ  ix 
plans to roll out these new changes this 
month, with the longest-subscribed mem-
bers receiving the price change last.
However, Netﬂ  ix has promised its cus-
tomers will not be charged uninformed. In 
a letter to its shareholders, the company 
stated, “To reinforce brand trust, we won’t change anyone’s price without their ac-
knowledgement of the new price in their 
member experience, where they will see a 
dialogue box about their options.”
The change in price has led some to 
consider other avenues for streamed enter-
tainment. 
Ashton Doyal, a UF civil engineering 
sophomore, is one of those people. 
“I don’t think they (my parents) even 
use it that much,” the 20-year-old said. “They might just go with the lower plan.” 
With the price change taken into con-sideration, Netﬂ  ix is now the most ex-pensive of its competitors. Hulu offers its 
services for $7.99 per month with minimal 
advertisements, and Amazon Prime Instant 
Streaming offers a special price of $4 per month to students.
“I don’t think you’re going to raise pric-
es on consumers and have them excited 
about it,” said Thomas Knight, an associat-
ed chair and lecturer in the UF Department of Economics. “But again, at the end of the day, it may still be proﬁ  table for Netﬂ  ix to proceed with this plan.”  Netﬂ  ix to raise its prices throughout the year
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gainesville Regional Transit System changes its sched-
ule in accordance with the collegiate semesters, making the 
Summer semester more limited for bus riders. 
Many routes, such as the 118, 121 and Later Gator routes 
D and F, go on vacation and will not run during the Summer 
semester, wrote Chip Skinner, the marketing and communica-
tions supervisor for RTS, in an email.Route 9, which goes from the Reitz Union to Hunters Run 
Apartments, will run every 22 minutes instead of every 10 
minutes and will stop running at 5:26 p.m. 
Schedules are changed due to funding partners cutting 
back during the summer months as there are fewer college 
students, and workers on the UF and Santa Fe campuses, Skinner wrote. 
Other routes with reduced services include route 10, which 
will run every 70 minutes, and route 34, which will run every 50 minutes. RTS receives some complaints for the Summer changes. “Those that are veterans of the bus system know that these 
semester changes occur and plan for them,” Skinner wrote. 
Although she has to wake up about an hour earlier to catch 
routes 9 or 35 from Lexington Crossing to campus, Debbie Diep, a 20-year-old UF psychology junior, is adapting to the schedule changes. 
“I have to wait about 20 minutes longer on campus, but 
there are less people on the bus,” she said. “It never gets full.”  RTS revises route schedules for the Summer semesterLOCAL
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The St. Francis Pet Care clinic 
opened its doors in 2007. Its ﬁ  rst patient, Baby Girl, belonged to a homeless woman in the commu-nity. 
“That dog holds a special place 
in my heart,” said Dr. Natalie Isaza, a clinical associate professor at UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine. “She was our very ﬁ  rst client; after sitting there for two hours she was the only one that showed up.”
Nine years later, the organiza-
tion plans to expand to a bigger lo-
cation and will hold a fundraiser to-
day from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m at UF’s College of Veterinary Medicine. 
The clinic ﬁ  rst operated in an old 
closet-like room behind the St. Fran-cis House by Isaza, animal advocate Chris Machen and Gainesville veter-inarian Dr. Dale Kaplan-Stein. They later moved to a nearby building. 
The organization is a nonprof-
it, non-emergency pet clinic that serves animals of veterans, home-less and low-income residents of Alachua County, Machen said. 
“We have to get our own build-
ing, we have to get sustainable, we 
have to have a much better working 
environment,” Machen said. “We are literally on top of each other.” 
The clinic runs only on volun-
teers and is funded by different grants from the city and through donations from Alachua County residents, Machen said. 
About 80 percent of their pa-
tients are dogs and about 20 percent are cats.
“We are thrilled and amazed at 
how many people we have been able to take care of,” Machen said. 
Corey Fisher, a 21-year-old UF 
biology senior and volunteer vet-erinary technician at the clinic, said he’s happy with how much the or-
ganization helps the community. He 
volunteers at the clinic every Tues-day from 8 a.m. to noon.
“For some people their animals 
are all they have left,” Fisher said. “I never walk away on a Tuesday from there without knowing I did something meaningful. I know it’s a good cause.”  St. Francis Pet Care 
clinic hosts fundraiserChanges mainly afect U.S.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  90° LOW  65°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an Aloha 
Summer-themed event Friday 
from 8 p.m. until midnight at 
the Reitz Union. The event will feature a surfboard simulator, free food and a live music per-
formance from Ricky Kendall. 
The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Deadpool” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. Free bowling 
and pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. This event is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Card. 
Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event.
Florida Museum celebrates 
new “Wicked Plants: The Exhibit” opening May 14
Join the Florida Museum of 
Natural History for a fun-for-all-ages celebration of its new-est featured exhibit, “Wicked Plants,” May 14 from 10 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. While the exhibit has 
an admission fee, the celebra-tion activities are free, and the event is an exciting first stop on a journey to learn more about some of Mother Nature’s most appalling creations! For 
more information visit flmnh.
ufl.edu/calendar/grid/wicked-plants-exhibit-celebration or call 352-273-2061.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgettenberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Missouri man put to death for 
killing deputy, 2 others 
BONNE TERRE, Mo. (AP) — A man who killed two people in a drug dispute and a sheriff's dep-uty in a subsequent shootout was put to death Wednesday in what could be Missouri's last execution for some time.Earl Forrest died by injection for the December 2002 deaths of Harriett Smith, Michael Wells and Dent County Sheriff's Deputy JoAnn Barnes. The 66-year-old Forrest declined to make a final statement.As his execution began, he mouthed words to his adult daughter who was among the witnesses. He stopped speaking within seconds of being injected with a lethal dose of pentobar-
bital, but showed no outward 
signs of distress.He was pronounced dead min-utes later.
"We know this execution will 
not bring JoAnn back, but it de-
stroyed an evil person that oth-erwise would be still walking this earth," the deputy's family 
members said in a statement.
The execution was delayed 
about an hour, partly because of severe weather in the area. Tornado sirens sounded at one point.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome, Kaelah Scheff  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Matthews Silva. Donovan Vazquez  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, 
  Maria Hyde
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 146
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
RETREATGAINESVILLE.COM | 352-372-6535
1404 W UNIVERSITY AVE STE 10  LEASE FOR AS LOW 
AS $599/MO
®
come and see why life is better in a cottageWelcome  to 
    the University 
              of Florida
2-6 Bedroom Luxury Cottages
RESORT STYLE POOL | EXTENSIVE FITNESS FACILITY | PRIVATE SHUTTLE  
FREE PARKING  | INTERNET & CABLE | OUTDOOR GRILLING  
SELF-SERVE STARBUCKS COFFEE | TANNING  | HOT TUB & SAUNA  
COMPUTER LOUNGE | GROUP STUDY ROOMS   | CYBER CAFE  
 BEACH VOLLEYBALL | GAMING ROOMS
4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
By Natalie Calvo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Anjali Lloyd is a second-grade 
student from Hidden Oak Elemen-
tary School. Lloyd is also a ﬁ  rst-
place winner in the Peace Poetry 
Contest, put on by the Veterans for Peace.
“I wish for a world with no 
hate,” reads Lloyd’s poem sub-mission. “A world where people 
do not use their differences as 
bait.”
Lloyd is one of 32 young po-
etry winners who will read their 
poems about peace to an audi-
ence of roughly 150 people this weekend at the Peace Poetry Reading and Reception event.
The seventh-annual reading 
will take place May 14 from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Unitar-ian Universalist Fellowship of Gainesville, located at 4225 NW 34th St. At the event, three high school seniors and college stu-
dents who advocate for nonvio-
lent social change will receive $500 scholarships.
“(The competition gets) young 
students starting to talk about peace so that when they get old-er and enter positions of power, they can have peace in mind when making decisions,” said 
Jessica Newman, a Peace Poetry 
Contest co-coordinator.
K-12 students submitted po-
etry that was critiqued for style, 
imagery and content by a panel 
of UF English graduate students, led by Sidney Wade, a UF English professor and a former president of the Association of Writers and 
Writing Program. 
“We analyze the poetry the 
same way we would analyze any 
poem,” Wade said. The top three students and 
high honors selections from each 
age group will read their poems. 
They will also receive a bookstore gift card, a certiﬁ  cate of achieve-ment and placement in the 2016 
Peace Poetry Book, which is 
available for free at the event, at public school libraries, at book-stores and online. 
Scott Camil, the president of 
Veterans for Peace and a Vietnam War veteran, got the idea for the contest from Boston’s Veterans for Peace group’s own Peace Po-
etry Competition.
“In order to announce our con-
test, (the teachers) have to talk 
about peace,” Camil said. “It’s good for parents and kids to talk 
about peace while writing their 
papers. It’s not like a piece of cake. We all really enjoy hearing the poems.”  Alachua County K-12 students to 
read winning poems at Veterans for Peace poetry event
CAMPUS
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
After nearly four months, UF 
students had their voices heard.
In January, students asked the 
Florida Legislature to fund the 
rebuilding of the UF/IFAS Beef 
Teaching Unit, according to Alli-
gator archives.
This year, the Legislature gave 
$2.6 million, in addition to the $1 million given to the Department of Animal Sciences last year, for the unit’s expansion, said Geof-frey Dahl, the chair of the Depart-ment of Animal Sciences.
The Beef Teaching Unit is a 65-
acre farm that hosts a herd of 35 
cows and a variety of UF classes. It has two units: its North Unit, 
located at 3301 SW 23rd Terrace, 
and its South Unit, located at 3721 SW 23rd Terrace. The South 
Unit has been under construction.
The expansion is expected to 
be complete by 2017. Dahl said 
the expansion will not only im-prove animal management but will also be able to house four students in apartments.
“Housing will add to their ex-
perience on campus and enrich their time here,” he said.
 Kate Shufﬁ  tt, a UF animal sci-
ence alumna, said she looks for-ward to the unit’s development because she feels the department doesn’t get enough funding.
“A lot of our facilities are old 
and broken down,” she said. “We work well with what we have, but it’s nice to know someone saw we needed the money for improve-ments and put in the effort.”
In her time as an undergrad-
uate student, the 22-year-old wasn’t able to use the South Unit because of the construction, but 
she said she’s glad other students 
will be able to in the future.
“The kids that are going to 
come through here will get to have such a better experience and be more prepared,” she said. “So 
I think that’s awesome in itself.”   Florida Legislature gives $2.6 million to expand Beef 
Teaching Unit, to be completed by 2017
UF students asked for the money on Jan. 20Classes offered at the 
Beef Teaching Unit facility:
• Introduction to Animal 
Sciences
• Food Animal Nutrition and Feeding
• Livestock and Meat Evaluation
• Beef Cow-Calf Manage-ment
• Beef Stocker and Feed-yard Management
Source: UF/IFAS
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
T-BONED TACOMA
A T oyota T acoma lies overturned on the intersection of Univer-
sity Avenue and Sixth Street after getting hit by a silver Honda 
Civic running a red light, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben T obias said. Trafﬁ  c was rerouted for about 45 minutes.
AP Photo 
Paul Vice, of the United Kingdom, celebrates his gold medal win in 
the men’s 50 meter LC breaststroke ISA during the swimming events at the Invictus Games, Wednesday, May 11, 2016, in Kissimmee, Fla.  
By Rosanne Ramraj
Alligator Contributing Writer
After a two-week break, UF’s 
Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment will resume its regular Ga-
torNights event from 8 p.m. to 
midnight at the Reitz Union on Friday. 
Members of the student-run 
organization needed time to focus 
on ﬁ  nal exams and graduation, 
Maggie Sutton, a graduate assis-tant for RUB, wrote in an email.
“The theme for our ﬁ  rst event 
on May 13 is ‘Aloha Summer’ and will serve as the kick-off to your summer here at UF,” she said. 
Sutton said the Union’s built-in outdoor stage, created during the building’s expansion, will be used for the ﬁ  rst time. Gainesville musician Ricky Kendall will play 
one set at 8 p.m. and another at 
9 p.m. 
“The entire event will take 
place outdoors on the North Lawn 
and the North Terrace,” Sutton 
wrote. “In addition to live mu-sic, students can expect free food – like upside down pineapple cupcakes, a surfboard simulator, 
crafts, and hula dancing lessons.”
Although he’s not planning on 
attending the upcoming event, 
John Santelices, a 22-year-old UF 
microbiology senior, has been to ﬁ  ve previous GatorNights events.
“It was a bit too crowded so 
we had to wait,” he said. “Be-
sides that it was fun.” GatorNights returns with ﬁ  rst of 
four Summer A events 
Upcoming GatorNights 
events
(always Fridays from 8 p.m. 
to midnight at the Reitz Union):
• “Allegiant,” May 20
• “The Sweet Escape,” 
June 3
• “When I Met You in the Summer,” June 10THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Gainesville Throwbacks
On May 24, 1979…
The Florida Grand Dragon of the United Klans of 
America — one of the largest organizations of the 
Ku Klux Klan in the U.S. — visited UF on May 23, 
1979. He spoke to a Minorities in American Society class, which was predominantly black. Speaking out 
against the federal government’s affirmative action 
plan, he talked about how white men had to “regain superiority” by writing their congressmen to end 
programs benefiting minorities. Several individu-
als questioned the speaker for his views, firing off against his statements about white supremacy in a 
class of about 60 students.
On May 13, 1986...
UF researchers, including professors and gradu-
ate students, took air samples in Gainesville to test for radiation from the Chernobyl nuclear reactor ex-
plosion, which occurred about three weeks prior in Ukraine, which was part of the U.S.S.R at that time. 
During 1986, monitoring stations around the U.S. 
ran air tests for increases in radiation levels. Some stations in the West had detected small amounts of 
radiation.On May 14, 1996...
In May 1996, the Alligator reported on the “tow-
ering cost of gasoline,” comparing it to the average prices of regular, unleaded gas across the state. In 
April 1996, the average price for Florida gas was about $1.26 per gallon, while the average Gainesville 
price was $1.31 per gallon. Students spoke of the 
price “creeping up” to the point that it would be “too much.” A UF economics professor attributed the high 
prices to the cold winter and Iraq oil talks.
On May 21, 1996…
The Alligator reported Gator Corner Dining, 
which opened its doors 10 years ago today, received little publicity at its debut. At the time, Gator Cor-
ner Dining was UF’s only all-you-can-eat restaurant. Construction on the adjacent road still marked the 
corner by the dining hall, but campus officials ex-
pected to “mark the beginning of a new era in UF dining” with Preview and Summer B at Gator Corner 
Dining, according to Alligator archives.
On May 16, 2000…
Protesters gathered outside the newly opened 
Starbucks in Downtown Gainesville. The location was the first of its kind in the Gainesville area. Activ-
ists took the streets May 15 to voice their grievances with the practices of the coffee shop chain. About 
50 people rallied to protest Starbucks’ policies at the 
time, which were under fire for exploiting farmers 
and driving independently owned coffee shops out 
of business.
On May 19, 2005…
After 40 years, UF ended its contract with the Co-
ca-Cola Company as the official soft-drink provider 
of the Florida Gators in 2005. Instead, the university 
signed a 10-year exclusive agreement with the Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. Today, Pepsi still has an exclu-
sive pouring rights contract with UF. 
On May 24, 2005...
Former Gov. Jeb Bush named the orange the Flor-
ida state fruit, making it the 29th official emblem of the state. “The orange plays a vital role in our state’s 
economy, with more than 90,000 people employed by the citrus industry and more than 1.2 billion gal-lons of orange juice produced each year in the state,” 
Bush said, according to a press release.GOING BACK IN TIME IN GAINES VILLE…The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORColumn
I used to abhor the expression “The road to 
Hell is paved with good intentions.” If there’s a Hell, we’re probably living in it already, and why fault people for their good intentions?
When I moved to Gainesville for graduate 
school two years ago, my roommate and I moved into a cute little blue house in the Southeast. It’s close enough to campus to walk but far enough away to maintain a distinct neighborhood feel. 
Within a few weeks, we started meeting and 
befriending our neighbors, who have made liv-ing in the Southeast a delight. We go on walks, smoke and drink together and exchange gifts. They let us know if they see anything ﬁ  shy and keep us up-to-date on First Avenue’s gossip.
The Southeast, in recent memory, is a predominantly 
black neighborhood ﬁ  lled with beautiful cottages and man-sions that date from the late 19th century to the ﬁ  rst half of the last century. As we understand it, our house was in pretty grave condition when my landlord acquired and re-furbished it so it would be livable. As such, the rent we pay is much higher than the rents around us, a textbook case of gentriﬁ  cation. Mea culpa!
A little while back, we woke up to a cacophony of ham-
mering and car horns. In the side yard of our neighbor’s house, a construction crew was putting up what seemed to be a huge shed. In the next few days a ﬁ  lm crew appeared. Our peaceful neighborhood had become quite surreal.
A lady setting up a refreshment table for the ﬁ  lm crew 
informed me they were ﬁ  lming for “Tiny House Nation.” That was exciting; maybe we’d ﬁ  nally end up on a reality TV show.
The Alligator ran a story a short while later about the 
builders and their seemingly noble intentions to build a tiny house to beneﬁ  t the Southeast by attracting investment.
With all due respect to my neighbors, in my daily walks 
past the house, I’m struck by how not tiny it is, and also the fact that it was constructed in a side yard next to their current residence, both serviced by one driveway. Furthermore, aesthetically, the house looks like something a drunk Liberace dreamed up for a tacky Candyland skit. It’s horrible!
In my approximation, gentriﬁ  cation is certainly 
a form of colonialism, in that those with resources, yuppie white people, ﬁ  nd themselves completely entitled to certain areas because of their historic or cultural value.
I acknowledge the inherent worth of preserva-
tion and conservation of historic structures and areas, but gentriﬁ  cation always disrupts and poisons the organic con-ﬁ  guration of a neighborhood. Per endless value judgments and capital schemes, the natural ﬂ  avor of a place is always usurped by trendy and fad-like elements.
What strikes a nerve, furthermore, is the very pomp-
ous suggestion that building a sizably large house (by the standards of the vast majority of the world) entails “cutting back.” Privilege spawns blindness, and the “tiny house” phe-nomenon is painfully blind to, and ignorant of the reality of, a world in which so many live in destitution.
Rich, white Americans, neo-colonialists by any metric, 
are accustomed to having the world as their oyster and dis-possessing others through their identity projects and false charity: lest they market gentriﬁ  cation as anything else.
The historical precedents of socio-economic injustice are 
difﬁ  cult to overcome, and we live daily the vestiges of slav-ery and oppression against black Americans. However, this does preclude the possibility of living in harmony in diverse, historic neighborhoods.
Go outside, meet your neighbors, drink with them, eat 
with them, get to know them — for the greatest gift we can extend to each other is hospitality and friendship.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-ter’s student. His column appears on Thursdays.Gentriﬁ  cation and “tiny houses”: big problemsThe weekend is coming; the weekend is coming. For the 
Summer A crew, you’re already nearly one sixth of the way 
done with your mini semester. And for those in Summer 
C… Well, there’s still a long way to go. But for now, it’s 
time for our state of the union, our smooth icing on the cake, our Summer debut segment of…
Darts & Laurels
One of the challenges for us in assigning current events 
with a dart  or a laurel  is the fact that there is just so 
much to talk about. Economies across the globe may be in 
recession, but we never seem to run short on our supply of 
ridiculousness. Experts are saying its market value is at an all-time high. So, with all of the ups and downs in recent world news, we’d like to bring you a more international 
segment: “Dartos y Laurel-schteinem?” We digress.
First stop: Brazil. Current president Dilma Rousseff 
faces impeachment and stark disdain from the general 
Brazilian public after facing investigations of bribery and allegations of budget malpractice. However, the problem 
with impeaching Rousseff is what might follow after her.
Next in line for the presidency is current vice presi-
dent Michel Temer , a man so awash in corruption and 
unfavorability , he would never be able to assume the 
presidency in any other scenario. He gets an automatic 
dart. His approval rating is 2 percent, and 60 percent of 
Brazilians want to see him impeached from his vice presi-dency position, let alone take the helm of the country.
Across the Atlantic pond, the people of London  have 
elected Sadiq Khan , their ﬁ  rst Muslim mayor. This is a 
huge leap when considering sentiments of Islamophobia in the West and the refugee and migrant crisis in Europe. Now, at the end of the day, Khan is a politician before any-
thing else. While he rhetorically distances himself from 
extreme Muslims in London, he has a history of working and allying with fanatics in order to, presumably, get votes and political support. His political opportunism across the Muslim community should not be dismissed.
Nonetheless, he is incredibly moderate and liberal in 
general political practice, and his positions, such as sup-porting LGBT+ rights, bode very well for the future. So we give a laurel  to Khan and Londoners  for what seems to 
be a step in a very good direction .
Finally, we land in the Philippines: your future spouse’s 
low-key favorite honeymoon spot. Rodrigo Duterte is set to be the new president, and unfortunately for Filipinos (and your future spouse), many are coining Duterte as the 
“Trump of the East .” The Philippines is home to rampant 
economic inequality and poverty, so many Filipinos want 
change and have turned to Duterte as a man of bold claims and swift action.
In his campaign, however, he’s made ﬂ  ippant and sex-
ist comments about women and failed to deliver any kind of substantive platform. On law and order, he’s even said, “Forget the laws on human rights…you drug pushers and do-nothings better go out. Because I’d kill you.” At least 
says what’s on his mind, right? Obviously, a whole bag of 
darts is in order .
So, keep in mind, dear readers, there are plenty of ﬁ  sh 
in the sea, and often times, those ﬁ  sh live in countries 
with the same sorts of political problems as American ﬁ  sh. 
Only, they get by without as many Michael Bay movies and Starbucks gift cards.
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgIf asked to explain what they think it is 
like to live in Africa, most Americans would probably formulate a perception drastically different from the unapparent reality. As a result of either minimally 
skimming through the “Africa” section in newspapers or forgetting about the continent altogether, many Americans would draw from their high school history classes to de-scribe today’s Africa. This only becomes a problem when it seems it is more than just average Americans using information from 
decades ago, because although the possible 
solutions to beneﬁ  t Africa have changed, policies have not.While many African countries may still 
be considered underdeveloped socially, economically and po-litically, the one sign of hope is technological development. Josh 
Nesbit, the CEO of Medic Mobile, 
noted he got better reception on his mobile phone in poor, rural Malawi than he did in California.
Innovators are not only utiliz-
ing technology to solve problems locally but also globally. For ex-
ample, an M-Pesa program allows Kenyans 
to transfer money to family members with-out having to go through fragile and corrupt banking institutions. Additionally, Shimba 
Technologies has developed an app, MedAfrica, that looks to ad-dress health challenges in coun-tries where the doctor-per-1,000-
person ratio is as low as 0.2. All 
of these problems seemed nearly impossible to solve not too long ago. Now, there’s an app for that.
At the end of the day, how-
ever, it is going to take more than just nonproﬁ  ts to shed light on 
problems plaguing Africa. When reading his book on the issue, I found that Alec Ross,  who was the senior advisor for innovation for the Obama administration, seemed sur-prised to learn about the technological devel-opments occurring in Africa this past decade. It is hard for the U.S. to take advantage of op-portunities to improve Africa if the American 
government is unaware of them.  
Although it may be hard to cure American 
apathy toward Africa, the least that could be 
done is a change in mentality at the highest power. It is time for the executive branch to lend a hand.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical 
engineering sophomore. His column appears 
on Thursdays.THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgTechnology and big change in Africa: changing American mentalityColumnBy Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a Gainesville 
man Tuesday after they said he entered 
a home — despite the owner’s injunction against him — and hid in a closet, where he was later found with a lit cigarette. 
The injunction, spurred by domestic vio-
lence, required James West, 28, to stay 500 feet away from the woman’s home, accord-ing to a police report.
The woman called police after she saw 
West. He returned at about 10 p.m. and bur-glarized her home, according to the report. 
Police arrived and saw West run into a 
back room, where he then hid under a pile of 
clothes in the closet, according to the report. 
Officers found West after he lit a cigarette. 
While in handcuffs, West started to yell and twist, trying to break free from the of-ficers’ hold. Police then restrained his legs. 
West also has open 
charges for the domestic dispute, along with mari-juana possession and pos-session of drug parapher-nalia, according to Alachua County court records. 
Police arrested West on 
charges of burglary and resisting an officer, along 
with two charges for violating the injunc-tion. 
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, he re-mains in lieu of a $145,000 bond.
 
smarino@alligator.org
@saradmarino8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
Mildreds and New Deal Cafe
Mildreds: fresh, casual, quick lunch and dinner is great for 
date night! Check out our bar dinners at 7pm on Sat nights, 
Reserve at 352-371-1711 or mildredsbigcity@aol.com  
New Deal: UF beef burgers and roman pizzas with happy 
hour from 4-7pm dailyBagels & Noodles
Serving breakfast and fresh 
bagels 6:30 am-3:00pm. Serving 
Vietnamese cuisine Pho noodle 
soup and more 11 am- 9pm. 
1222 W. University Ave. 
352-872-5789
Mi Apa Latin Cafe
Your destination for deliciously Cuban food in town. Open 7am-10pm 
seven days a week for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Check out our website 
@ miapalatincafe.com for online ordering. 114 SW 34th St. across from 
Publix on University & 34th. Bring this promo for $3 off any meal or sandwich 
(dine in only)
Maude’s Classic Cafe
Serving locally roasted coffee since 1995. Tea, smoothies, sandwiches, 
desserts, beer, wine, spirits and much more. Great place to meet with 
friends or study groups. Check us out on Facebook–Maude’s Classic 
Cafe or Maude’s Side Car Bar–for more details and upcoming events.Blue Gill Quality Food
Check out one of the best Happy Hours around: $3 
wells, 1/2 off select wines by the glass, $5 select specialty 
cocktails, $1 off all beers; 3-6 pm Mon-Fri. Located just south 
of Archer Road on 13th Street in the Shands Parking Garage. 
Private room available. Great for rehearsal dinners, student 
life organizations, and other group events. Always taking 
reservations, call us at 872-5181. Like us on Facebook and 
follow us on Instagram @bluegillqualityfoods for upcoming 
events and daily specials.Manuel’s Vintage Room
This family owned restaurant is perfect for dinner any day 
of the week. Come in and check out one of the best wine 
lists in town. Ask questions and learn while you wait for the 
chef to put out nothing but goodness from the kitchen 
using fresh, simple, and local ingredients. Ask about our 
Monday Wine Dinners and private parties for lunch or 
dinner. Open Tues-Sat 5pm-10pm, Sun 5pm-9pm. 
6 South Main St.
(352) 375-7372
AmericanBreakfast
Cuban
CoffeeLocalItalian
Karma Cream
We serve the only 100% 
organic ice cream in town! 
We also have an impressive 
selection of organic vegan 
ice cream, baked goods, 
sandwiches, fair trade 
coffee, tea, organic beer 
and free WI-FI. 
Mon-Fri 11am-1am 
Sat&Sun 11am-1amFrozen 
Treats· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
West
Man caught intruding by 
evidence of cigarette light
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville man Tuesday 
afternoon after they said he entered a home 
and stole an Xbox 360 gaming system, four 
games, two prescriptions and other items at the end of April.
At about 10 p.m. on April 28, Antonio 
Green, 33, entered a woman’s apartment in the 1100 block of NW 39th Ave., according to 
a police report. 
Green stole a TV from a bedroom, the 
Xbox 360 and games from her living room and prescriptions from her kitchen, according 
to the report. The items are worth a total of about $205.
Three days later, he sold the TV — valued 
at $125 — for $25 at Value Pawn and Jewelry on Main Street, according to the report. Green signed his name and provided a thumb print. 
Police later questioned Green, who said he 
bought the TV in order to sell it. He later said a man named Julian stole the TV from the 
woman’s home while she was sleeping. 
The Xbox 360 was 
later found at the home 
of Green’s sister, and he eventually admitted to tak-
ing the woman’s property, 
according to the report. 
Police arrested Green 
on charges of larceny, fraud and dealing in stolen property. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released 
Wednesday afternoon on a $45,000 bond. 
smarino@alligator.org
@saradmarino By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a Hawthorne, 
Florida, man Tuesday afternoon after police 
said he fought his neighbor. 
At about 3 p.m., James Lawrence, 48, 
stood in his neighbor’s yard at Hawthorne 
Estates and spoke with the 71-year-old man, 
according to a police report.
The conversation eventually turned into 
an argument, and Lawrence began to punch the man several times, according to the report. 
Emergency Medical Services transported 
his neighbor to the  Malcom Randall VA Medical Center for multiple cuts and bruises, according to the report. Lawrence was not in-
jured.
Since 2004, Lawrence has been found 
guilty of aggravated assault with a deadly 
weapon in two separate incidents, according to Alachua County court records. 
Lawrence refused to be placed in hand-
cuffs, and an ofﬁ  cer then used a Taser on 
him, according to the re-port.
The struggle left the of-
ﬁ  cer with a small scrape on the pinky of his right hand, 
according to the report. 
Police arrested Law-
rence on charges of aggra-vated battery on a person 65 years of age or older, 
resisting arrest with violence and battery on a law enforcement ofﬁ  cer.
Authorities took him to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $75,000 bond.  
smarino@alligator.org
@saradmarinoTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Ballyhoo Grille
Proudly serving Gainesville since 1998. We 
offer the most diverse options ranging from 
pasta, sandwiches, burgers, sushi, salads, 
ﬂ  atbreads, grill items, and fresh seafood. We 
also serve the best wine and beer in town. 
Happy Hour is from 2pm to 7pm daily, plus 
all night on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. If 
you are looking for a unique graduation 
meal, head over to Ballyhoo. We have 
great service and outdoor seating that can 
accommodate any graduation party for 
the student’s big day. 
Located at 3700 W University Ave. 
325-373-0059For information on advertising in 
the Guide to Dining Out contact 
Richie Caudill
Alligator 
Advertising
352-376-4482
Vegan2Go Restaurant
7625 West Newberry Rd,
west of the Oaks mall. Thanks for 
many good feedbacks on yelp.
com and happycow.net. We offer 
100% dairy/egg-free & meat free 
menu, Non-GMO tofu, no MSG, 
Gluten, soy & oil free options. 
Some of the popular items: spring 
& summer rolls, drumsticks, BBQ 
skewers, rice & noodle combo, 
superfood quinoa salad, curry rice, 
tempeh rice, veggie pizza, philly 
sub, raw mango salad & cheese 
cake, whole wheat carrot cake. 
10% student discount. vegan meal 
plan: $95/week.
Open Mon, Wed, Thu 11am-8pm, 
Fri-Sat 11am-9PM.
http://www.vegan2go.us/
352-505-8894Vegan
Bar & GrillLeonardo’s of Milhopper
Great Chicago Style pizza, Quick slices now available 
all day and night. On the way to and from Santa Fe 
College. On the corner of NW 16th Blvd. and 43rd Street. 
Tear this out for 20% OFF meal. 4131 NW 16th Blvd in 
Milhopper Square. 376-2001Pizza THE GUIDE TO
Daily Green
Fresh, unique, organic, 
food! Soups, salads, 
sandwiches, wafﬂ  es, 
savory wafﬂ  e cones, 
homemade sweets, juices 
and smoothies. Vegan/
gluten free options.
436 SE 2nd St. 
dailygreendowntown.org
Like us on Facebook 
w-sat 11-7, 
sun brunch 10-3Organic· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Lawrence
 Green
 Hawthorne man punches 
neighbor in front yard Man steals electronics from Gainesville woman10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
ABOVE:
Jeremy Barnes, 19, practices his butterﬂ  y stroke at the Florida Pool on Wednesday afternoon. The UF biochem-
istry junior said he prefers swimming over other exercises because it puts little stress on the body.
LEFT:
Brenden Collins, a 21-year-old UF political science senior, helps 19-year-old UF anthropology junior Kelsey Young with her “front handspring ups” on Flavet Field on Wednesday afternoon. 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Cannabix Technologies, a technology 
company based in Canada, enlisted the 
help of several UF scientists to develop a 
device that can detect THC on a person’s breath.
“The idea of the company is that, once 
it’s legalized, then there will be a means in place to stop drugged driving,” said Jared Boock, the project’s lead developer. 
Boock, said he is excited about the new 
information he learns every day. 
“It’s new science,” he said. “It’s never 
been done before.” 
Ultimately, he said, the team hopes to 
create a handheld, portable device law 
enforcement can use to perform roadside 
drug screenings. Driving under the inﬂ  uence of marijua-
na is similar to driving while intoxicated, creating a danger to everyone on the road, 
Boock said.
“For our type of instrument we’ll deﬁ  -
nitely be able to see not only is THC pres-ent, but how much as well,” he said.
Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias, a spokesman for the 
Gainesville Police Department, said the tool would be signiﬁ  cant for police. 
Some ofﬁ  cers undergo extensive train-
ing to become a Drug Recognition Expert, he said. Such experts can assess whether a driver is under the inﬂ  uence of drugs. 
However,  Tobias said, only two out of 
302 GPD ofﬁ  cers are DRE certiﬁ  ed.
Although wary of the new technology, 
Sebastian Wharff, a 29-year-old UF archi-
tecture sophomore, said the new device 
could be helpful. 
“If we are going to accept weed as a le-
gal thing, there has to be restrictions on it,” he said.  UF researchers envision portable marijuana breathalyzerSUMMER STUDENTS GET ACTIVE
It will measure levels of THCEmma Green / Alligator Staff Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff BOTH OF THE BANDS ARE 
FROM GAINESVILLE.
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
To end the ﬁ  rst week of Sum-
mer classes, The Jam is bringing 
music and free beer to town. 
Florida bands Morning Fatty 
and Flat Land will perform Friday at Gainesville Rage Fest, located at 817 W. University Ave. 
Although the bands have had 
many shows at The Jam before, “this will be the ﬁ  rst Rage Fest of-ﬁ  cially,” said John Pop, the bass player for Morning Fatty. 
The band’s other three mem-
bers include Miller Joyner on lead guitar, Andrew White on lead vocals, guitar and keys and Tim 
Mulberry on drums. 
Pop and White started the band 
in 2004 when they were in high school, and a friend introduced them to the two other members. 
Mulberry, the newest mem-
ber of the band, recently ﬁ  nished 
playing a six-month world tour 
with the Black Eyed Peas. He then 
auditioned for Morning Fatty, passing with ﬂ  ying colors. 
“We are rolling out some new 
songs,” Pop said. “We are getting 
into doing some sampling and 
getting into the dubstep-electro feel but fusing it with funk, rock and reggae.” 
The members are currently 
trying to coin a new genre. They started out playing reggae, moved to punk and psychedelic rock and have recently been dabbling in 
dubstep electronic music. 
“We are trying to stick to FRED 
music,” Pop said. “#FRED stands 
for Funk, Rock, Electro and Dub.”
Morning Fatty has two stu-
dio albums and singles available on Spotify, Pandora and iTunes. 
Merchandise will be available at 
the show. 
“Gainesville is our heart,” Pop 
said. “We have been to 500 cities, 
and we always keep coming back 
home — this is the spot.” 
Pop said Rage Fest’s other 
headliner, Flat Land, will com-
pliment Morning Fatty to bring a 
great night of music to The Jam.  
“We’ve been friends with 
Morning Fatty for years now, play-
ing several shows and just being 
supportive of one another in the music scene,” said Grant McLeod, the 26-year-old drummer of Flat Land.
Flat Land band members in-
clude vocalist and violinist Fae Na-geon de Lestang, bassist Brandon Miller, guitarist Christopher Sto-rey and percussionist and pianist 
Ian McLeod. 
Flat Land has played on a 
wide range of stages through-
out the Southeast, including the 
Okeechobee Music Festival in 
March and the Suwannee Hu-laween in November 2015. 
Flat Land has played together 
since the members graduated 
from UF four years ago. Each 
member of the band grew up playing different genres of mu-sic, but they describe the band’s 
sound as ethereal funk fusion.
The band has a new single 
called “Poco a Poco,” which is 
a part of its new album coming out June 17. In English, the song 
means “little-by-little,” Nageon 
de Lestang said.
“The chorus translates to ‘lit-
tle-by-little one goes far,’” she 
said. “It is about getting where 
you want to be when you put your mind to something.” 
Even with new music coming 
soon, Flat Land is working hard 
to make sure the band’s music 
stays true to its original sound. 
Doors for Rage Fest open at 7 
p.m., and beer will also be avail-
able at that time. The show will 
start at 8 p.m. Attendees must be 18 to enter. Tickets can be bought at the door for $15 or $10 in ad-vance at squareup.com.  
Q&A with CHEW: 
Band to play in GNV for the ﬁ  rst time, pg. 16Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. Netﬂ  ix binge drinking game
Drink and watch “American Dad, ” pg. 12
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
 Bands return to The Jam for Gainesville Rage Fest  
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Flat Land will play at Friday’s Rage Fest, following a notable performance at the Okeechobee Music Festival. Doors open at 7 p.m. for the 8 p.m. show.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Morning Fatty will headline The Jam’s ﬁ  rst ofﬁ  cial Rage Fest on Friday. Tickets are $10 online or $15 at the door.
“W e have been to 500 cities, 
and we always keep coming 
back home — this is the spot.”
 
John Pop
bass player for Morning Fatty
Inside Story teaser: 
Inside story description pg# By Laura Gomez
Avenue Writer
No one does drink-until-you-fall-
asleep-on-your-couch-watching-Net-
/f_l  ix like America does. /T_h  at’s why Seth MacFarlane’s “ American Dad” could be your next binging obsession.
/T_h  e “Family Guy” sister project 
has received scrutiny from audiences who call it a rip-oﬀ   of its sister show. However, “ American Dad” skips the pop culture allusions and creates a world of humor with its memorable characters: the Smiths.
/T_h  e Smith household embodies 
the stereotypical view of America. Its members: a radical head of house-
hold, a stay at home mom, a rebellious 
daughter, an underdeveloped son and an illegal alien (literally). Sounds like ‘Merica to me.
So if you already love “ American 
Dad” or are willing to give it a shot (pun intended), grab some corn-made whiskey and embrace the American way.
P .S. Don’t try this at home — seri-
ously.THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
New homes | New gym
New Lifestyle
lux13apartments.com | 352.316.7973        YOU
DESERVE
IT.
Receive a $200 Visa Gift Card when you move in by May 31st. Take a sip…
• Whenever Stan threatens to kill 
someone
• Every time Francine says 
something dumb
• Whenever Stan is insensitive
• Every time Stan’s views conﬂ  ict 
with Hayley’s
Take a shot…
• For every ridiculous plan Roger 
hatches
• Whenever Principal Lewis 
behaves corruptly• When Stan reveals his political 
slant
• Every time Roger changes into 
one of his alter egos
• Whenever Steve cries over 
nothing
Finish your drink…
• Every time a family member 
tries to sabotage another
• When Klaus’ past life is 
uncovered
• For every talking animal you 
encounter (besides Klaus)By Kirsten Chuba 
Avenue Writer
Looking for some fun things to do this 
weekend while campus is dead for Sum-
mer A? The Avenue has got your back. 
Here’s a few things happening around 
Gainesville this weekend to satisfy all your entertainment needs. 
Friday
Friday the 13th: Dance ‘Til You’re 
Dead — Market Street Gainesville, located at 112 SW First Ave., is hosting a Friday 
the 13th dancing, drinking and movie 
night. The party will last from 10 p.m. to 
2 a.m. with a $3 cover. Attendees must be at least 18, according to the Facebook event page. 
GatorNights: Aloha Summer — The 
ﬁ  rst GatorNights of the Summer semester will be held at the Reitz Union on Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight. The event will feature a surfboard simulator, a live per-
formance by Ricky Kendall and free bowl-ing and billiards in the game room. Gator-
Nights is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. 
Saturday  
Watch “Deadpool” at The Jam — The 
Jam, located at 817 W University Ave., will play three showings of “Deadpool” on Saturday at 8 p.m., 10 p.m. and mid-night. The hit movie will be shown out-
side in The Jam’s courtyard with sur-
round sound. For $8, attendees can get in all night and even stay for all three showings (if you love Ryan Reynolds that 
much). New Food Truck at First Magnitude 
— First Magnitude Brewing Company, lo-
cated at 1220 SE Veitch St., is expanding its food truck lineup this summer, kicking 
it off with Papa Pineapples this weekend 
from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. The Island fusion menu includes pineapple pork sliders, hot Hawaiian burgers and mango habanero black bean tacos, according to the Face-
book event page. 
Sunday
Painting with a Twist at Swamp Head 
— Sunday at 4 p.m., Swamp Head Brew-
ery, located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave., is teaming up with Painting with a Twist for 
an afternoon of painting and drinking. At-tendees will paint the Swamp Head logo on canvases while drinking craft beers, 
and they can reserve spots on the Paint-
ing with a Twist website. 
Downtown Food Tour — Gainesville’s 
downtown food tour is taking place on Sunday at 10:45 a.m. The three-hour 
walking tour will showcase ﬁ  ve restau-
rants and businesses, including Loosey’s, Liquid Ginger and The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops. Tickets are $48.99 and can be 
purchased at gainesvillefoodtour.com.  
 This weekend in Gainesville: things to do during the Summer A term
Parties, painting and food14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
By Cecilia Lemus
Avenue Writer
Movie fanatics can now receive 
personalized movie rating predic-
tions, all thanks to the work of two 
Gainesville brothers.
Movie4Mi was created in 2011 as 
an Android app, but in January of this 
year, the website version of the app 
ofﬁ  cially launched. David Dawkins 
said the app was a side project he cre-ated while he was a pharmacy student at UF.
Alongside his brother, Herbert 
Dawkins, David created the movie rating system with hopes of bringing justice to the current form of movie ratings.
“I wanted to create something that 
could serve myself and others who watch movies,” David said.
Movie review websites like Rotten 
Tomatoes, Metacritic and IMDb offer 
users movie ratings, but the Dawkins brothers envisioned a website with 
catered features for users with vary-
ing movie preferences.
The website creates movie ratings 
based on users who have similar mov-
ie preferences, rather than offering a general review.
Users log in to Movie4Mi.net 
through Facebook, Google or anony-mously.
They are then prompted to choose 
ﬁ  ve ﬁ  lms they like and three they dis-like. Users then input the ﬁ  lm they want a rating for, and based on the user preferences, the website creates the rating.
“The goal is to shift the kind of way 
we look at movie reviews and movie ratings, because right now everyone is lumped up,” David said. “It’s a better 
representation of the probabilities of 
you liking a movie.”
There are more than 10,000 movies 
on the website, and anyone can add a movie to the database.Users who log in through accounts 
have the advantage of receiving a 
more personalized experience. The 
website saves the users’ preferences and caters the movie ratings.
“This is on the side,” Herbert said. 
“If we make money, that’s great, but 
we don’t think we will make money. 
We just want to make something that is useful to improve people’s lives.”
Herbert designed the overall layout 
of the website, and he said the web-site is mobile friendly — accessible from any phone with Internet access. 
It was created in a little over a 
month, and since January it has ac-
cumulated more than 290 registered 
users and hundreds or anonymous users. In total, more than 1,800 users have accessed the website.
“I want people to use it and enjoy 
it; there is nothing like it right now,” Herbert said.  GNV brothers create personalized movie rating website
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF graduate David Dawkins created a personal 
movie ranking system called Movie4Mi.
FILMTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
1
1312111098765432
  
   
   
  
 NNW 3rd St
SE 1st St
NE 3rd StSW 3rd StSW 2nd Ave
SW 5th AveSE 1st Ave
SW 1st AveManuel’s 
Vintage 
Room
Hippodrome
SUN
CENTERSE 2nd Ave
SE 2nd PlNW 2nd St SW 2nd St
SW 1st St
S Main St N Main St
E University AveDeath
or
Glory
 By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Three bands are converging at 
Gainesville’s Hardback Cafe on 
Saturday. Eve of November, CHEW and Analogue Ghost will be play-ing sets at the venue, located at 211 W. University Ave., starting at 10 p.m., with doors opening at 9 p.m. 
CHEW is a trio from Atlanta 
with Brett Reagan on guitar and electronics, Brandon Pittman on bass and Sarah Wilson on drums. The band has been touring the country since June 2015, and they 
just released new music with their 
“3D EP.”  We sat down with the band before they play their ﬁ  rst Gainesville show. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did 
CHEW get started?
Brett Reagan: CHEW started 
about a year ago. Our projects we were working on were slowing 
down and ending. We all wanted 
to create something unique that fo-
cused on a heavy use of electron-ics. The music spoke for itself, and we decided to go fully instrumen-
tal. Also, there was nothing hold-
ing us back from touring all the 
time. All the pieces were in place, and we haven’t looked back since.  
KC: How would you describe 
your band’s sound?
BR: The easiest way to describe 
our sound would be experimental psych. We’re different because our sound spans multiple genres while still ﬁ  tting into one cohesive pack-age. We try pushing ourselves, and 
the limits of music in general. We 
want to make music that sounds 
like this current moment in time, 
and not some recycled versions of what our favorite musical crews 
have done in the past.
KC: Can you tell me about your 
tour?
BR:  We started touring about 
one year ago and have been as far 
north as New York, as far south as 
Miami and as far west as Texas. 
This summer we’re going on a 30-day tour out towards Denver and Kansas City. Our live shows are fun 
and super high energy. The combi-
nation of Sarah’s driving beat and 
Brandon’s fuzzed-out bass licks, coupled with his signature dance moves, makes for something deﬁ  -
nitely more entertaining than just 
watching a couple people stand-
ing around performing their tunes blankly.
KC: What will Friday’s show at 
the Hardback be like? 
BR: This will be the ﬁ  rst time 
CHEW has been in Gainesville. We’re playing a lot of songs off of our new “3D EP.”  Also, we have a 
couple of new songs in store that 
have yet to be released.  Expect 
some glitched out synth sounds on top of some deep psych grooves, with blasting beat sprinkled with mantis poses and high kicks.KC: Can you talk about your 
new EP? 
BR: We worked for about six 
months on our new “3D EP” that 
we just released. We recorded all 
the bass, drums and electronics live, which really adds a nice ele-ment to the record. Working with Michael Mosca was great. There 
was nothing we could throw at 
him that was too weird or off-
base. The album art was done by 
our friend Richie Brown, who has 
worked with Adult Swim in the past. Everything came together better than we could have ever expected. We’re deﬁ  nitely really proud of the results.
Tickets for the show are $5 at 
the door, and drink specials will be 
offered throughout the night. 16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
CHEW, a trio from Atlanta, is bringing its unique sound to Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time. The 
group will be playing on Saturday at the Hardback Cafe, with doors opening at 9 p.m.
Q&A: Funky trio to play in Gainesville for the ﬁ  rst time
MUSICTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer 
When Drake released “If You’re 
Reading This It’s Too Late” in Feb-
ruary 2015, it felt like something was missing. To me, it sounded like Drake wasn’t trying at times, and 
the project really did feel like more 
of a mixtape than an album-quality project. To be clear, I still think that “IYRTITL” was very good; after all, Drake is one of the few artists that can’t miss. The scary part is, while “IYRTITL” was good, we all knew Drake could do better.
No one really knew what to ex-
pect from Drake on “Views” be-cause 2015 was the year of “savage” Drake. At the same time, he’s re-leased catchy hip-hop hits like “Right Hand” and R&B hits like “Hotline Bling,” but he’s also released songs with heavy Caribbean inﬂ  uence such as “One Dance” and “Control-la.” Now, getting to “Views.”
“Keep the Family Close” sets the 
mood for the album with a stormy intro that matches the album cover perfectly. It feels like it could be used as the intro song to a James Bond 
movie, with relatable lyrics and a 
moody tone that’s similar to previ-ous Drake songs. 
“9” is the ﬁ  rst banger on this al-
bum. Drake’s voice and lyrics show how far he’s come in his career. He sounds mature and focused on his mission, but he is still relaxed.
Next on the album is “U With 
Me?,” which uses a dope DMX sam-ple and features production from Kanye West. Drake lays down a couple verses over a smooth instru-mental, balanced out by the heavy drums that have Kanye written all over them.
“Feel No Ways” is next up and is 
an early favorite of mine so far on 
“Views.” Drake pushes himself and 
experiments with different sounds on this album, which is exactly how an artist of Drake’s caliber stays rel-evant over time.
Drake is quick to remind us he 
can be a savage on “Hype,” where he continues to take subliminal shots at Meek Mill and others (eye roll emoji). Drake stays true to his 
roots and gets back to the basics on 
“Weston Road Flows” (Weston Road is the road where Drake was raised). 
After a ﬁ  re rap song, “Redemp-
tion” puts you in your feelings again. Drake serenades us with a smooth track as he thinks back to a past relationship. “Redemption” is peak Drake.
In Drake’s interview with Zane 
Lowe on the night “Views” dropped, he described the album as going through the seasons, starting in win-ter then going into summer before circling back to winter. This can deﬁ  nitely be heard throughout the album, especially on “With You,” which features the OVO genius PAR-
TYNEXTDOOR. 
Drake follows up the chill “Faith-
ful” with an absolute banger in “Still 
Here.” Drake boasts that he’s “Still Here” after nearly a decade in the game and states that he doesn’t plan on going anywhere any time soon — until he retires at 35, apparently. Af-ter “Faithful,” Drake delivers his ﬁ  rst summer hit on the album with “Con-
trolla.” This song is a good observa-
tion of Drake trying a new sound. Af-ter his feature on Rihanna’s “Work,” I hoped he would continue making Caribbean-inﬂ  uenced music, and Drake followed through with “Con-trolla.”
Next up is Drake’s ﬁ  rst ever Bill-
board Hot 100 No. 1 single, “One 
Dance,” which features Wizkid and 
Kyla. “One Dance” quickly shot up the charts, and it’s easy to see why. Drake’s singing over the afrobeat with Wizkid on the track and the Kyla sample combine to form the perfect summer anthem.
Drake gets back to addressing 
relationships and dealing with the 
women in his life on “Childs Play.” 
“Childs Play” continues the string of rap songs at this point in the album and makes for a good transition into “Pop Style.” 
“Too Good” was described by 
Drake as a follow-up to Rihanna and Drake’s hit “Work,” and you can see why he described it that way. Drake and Rihanna have never made a bad 
song together, and “Too Good” is no 
different.
“Views” is a great album that is 
extremely impressive on a num-ber of levels. Throughout “Views,” Drake’s raps are sharp and he’s able to switch from rapping in his nor-mal, deep voice to singing with im-pressive range in an instant. “Views” 
sold 852,000 copies in the U.S. 
iTunes store alone and was streamed exclusively on Apple Music a stag-gering 245 million times in the ﬁ  rst week, which more than doubled the previous streaming record set by Be-yonce a week before. From Drake’s rapping and singing to the produc-tion and features to the marketing 
behind this album and considering 
Drizzy went platinum in less than a week, “Views” is an easy contender for Album of the Year so far in 2016.
Drake delivers with ‘Views,’ a potential Album of the Year
MUSIC18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
News from around the nation: AP Roundup
Colorado Planned Parenthood shooter mentally 
incompetent 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — A man who acknowledged 
killing three people at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic is men-
tally incompetent to continue with his criminal case, a judge ruled Wednesday, stalling the proceedings and potentially setting the stage for a mental health defense.
The decision by Judge Gilbert Martinez puts the case against 
Robert Dear, 57, on hold until treatment restores his ability to un-derstand the proceedings and assist in his defense.
Two psychologists have found he has a delusion disorder, which 
they said keeps him from trusting almost anyone, including his law-yers. Martinez agreed with their findings, writing in his order that Dear’s “perceptions and understanding are not rational and are not grounded in reality. ”
As he was led out of the courtroom, Dear yelled at the judge: 
“That’s called prejudiced! Prejudiced! Filthy animal!”
Dear is charged with 179 counts, including murder and attempt-
ed murder, stemming from the Nov. 27 shooting at the Colorado Springs clinic that also left nine injured.
Martinez ordered the competency exam in December after Dear 
announced that he wanted to fire his public defenders and represent himself. Two psychologists who interviewed Dear testified that they agreed he is not competent and that his delusion disorder makes him believe the FBI is persecuting him.
He told the psychologists he did not want to be declared incom-
petent because it would mean “forced medication. ”
The Colorado Mental Health Institute at Pueblo, where Dear will 
be sent, can force people to take medication over their objections.
Restoring Dear to competency could take months or longer. But 
the overwhelming majority of defendants initially determined to be incompetent are eventually able to understand the proceedings and stand trial, said Steven Pitt, a forensic psychiatrist who has conduct-ed competency exams but is not involved in Dear’s case.
Prosecutors argued that Dear’s courtroom disruptions showed 
he understood the case against him. They have not decided whether to seek the death penalty against the man described by family and acquaintances as a man with a violent temper, anti-government sen-timents and longstanding disdain for abortion providers.
Dear has not entered a plea. If and when his court case resumes, 
the incompetency finding could help the defense during the trial and a potential sentencing phase.
He held police at bay for more than five hours during the attack, 
scattering hundreds of post-Thanksgiving shoppers who scrambled to hide inside surrounding buildings until the standoff ended.
-Associated Press
WAIMANALO, Hawaii — On a farm 
tucked under a lush Hawaii mountainside, 
Sean Anderson tends passion fruit, kale and salad greens — using only what nature pro-
vides.
He creates his own compost and fertil-
izers and doesn’t use chemicals. But he’s 
not certified as an organic farmer because the cost is too high.
“The margins on farming are so slim as 
it is that any additional cost really can make or break the success of your business,” said Anderson, the founder and farm manager 
of Green Rows Farm.
That could change after Hawaii became 
the first state to pass legislation providing 
tax breaks to farmers to offset the cost of getting certified as organic by the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture. Gov. David Ige has 
not yet decided whether he will sign it into law, a spokeswoman said.
A federal program offers organic farmers 
help covering up to 75 percent of certifica-tion costs, for a maximum of $750. 
In Hawaii, the legislation would give 
farmers up to $50,000 in tax credits for qualifying expenses, which include ap-
plication fees, inspection costs and equip-
ment or supplies needed to produce organic products. The state would be able to give $2 million in tax breaks per year.
Anderson estimates it would cost him 
$1,000 to $1,500 per year to get and main-tain certification for his 3-acre farm, he 
said.
“If I were certified organic, I could reach 
a much larger audience,” Anderson said.
Rep. Chris Lee said he introduced the 
bill hoping to encourage a younger genera-tion of farmers in Hawaii, where many are 
approaching retirement age.
“We still import 80 to 85 percent of the 
food that we eat,” Lee said. “We have enor-
mous potential for interruptions in our food 
supply, should there be a natural disaster or any issue that arises.”
The bill got support from the Hawaii 
Center for Food Safety, which has lobbied 
against genetically modified crops and 
pushed for stricter pesticide regulations on the islands.
“It is the emerging market in the U.S. for 
agriculture, and Hawaii has the opportu-nity to create a niche in that,” said Ashley Lukens, the group’s program director. “I think people are willing to pay a premium to know that their food is grown safely... 
but they need that label.”
-Associated PressAssociated Press
Members of the media try to listen through the cracks of the door to a hearing for Robert Dear, who acknowledged 
killing three people at a Colorado Planned Parenthood clinic on Nov. 27, in Colorado Springs, Colo., on Wednesday. Dear is mentally incompetent to continue with his criminal case, a judge ruled.
‘This is impossible’: New York man wins his second $1M lottery 
WEST BABYLON, N.Y. — A construc-
tion worker who won $1 million in a lottery scratch-off game four years ago has defied enormous odds by hitting a $1 million jack-pot again.
But don’t call him lucky.After Bruce Magistro hit the jackpot the 
first time in 2012, his wife, Yvonne, lost a three-year battle with cancer. Much of the prize money went to pay for her medical bills.
“She passed away two years ago today,” 
Magistro’s son, Nick Mayers, said Wednes-day. He said he was sure the second jack-pot was her way of sending help back to the family.
“This is definitely a gift, from her to 
him,” Mayers said.
State lottery officials introduced Magis-
tro at a news conference at the Long Island gas station where he bought the second winning ticket April 11.
Magistro said he plays the lottery every 
day and plunked down $20 at Mike’s Super Citgo in West Babylon for a set of 10 Win for Life scratch-offs.
“This is impossible,” Magistro said he 
thought as he scratched off a lottery tick-et and realized he won $1 million. “I just 
couldn’t believe I hit it two times.”
He now plans to share his winnings 
with his three children and his fiancee.
Magistro won $1 million on a different 
lottery scratch-off game he played at the same gas station in 2012.
The latest win came the first time he had 
played the Win for Life game, which will 
pay him $1,000 each week — with a mini-
mum of $1 million — for the rest of his life.
Lottery representative Yolanda Vega, 
who had presented Magistro with a cer-
emonial check for his first win, said even 
then she felt he could win a second time.
“He was so positive and outgoing that 
I knew he’d win again,” she said. “There 
was something about Bruce that I felt. 
There was this energy coming from his 
core.”
State gaming officials said the odds 
Magistro beat to get the Win for Life grand 
prize were 1 in 7,745,600, and they were 
1 in 2,520,000 when he won the Extreme 
Cash scratch-off in 2012.
Magistro said he plans to use the mon-
ey to pay his bills and go on a vacation, though he hasn’t decided where just yet.
“Hopefully I’ll win again,” he joked. 
“Third time’s a charm.”
-Associated PressHawaii aims to be first to help farmers get certified organic  BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished 
condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   5-31-16-41-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Available now, short term rental, 1-3 months for a female roommate. Private room and bath in large condo, $400/mo. More info at MLS 372003. Irene Larsson Property Management, 352-373-2605 or 352-538-1218.    5-12-16-2-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
1 BEDROOM in a 4:2 home for summer $300 / month & Fall / Spring semester $325 / month Call/text Joel : 352-443-3077 or wild -
buffalowings8@gmail.com[Dogs ok] Students preferred     5-19-10-2
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
3BR/2BA Haile Home $1200/m Rent in-
cludes yard care, security system, W/D zoned Wiles, Kanapaha wooded view, walk to restaurants, pool.1st, last$350 SD. Pet fees 352-222-5990.    5-19-16-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
Mobile Home for Sale by Owner in 
Gainesville; 2 bdrm; 2 bath w/all appliances; 
(352) 871-1126 and/or 352-246-1906    5-24-
16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
ABSOLUTE AUCTION -
Opp, Al-Commercial Real Estate60,000+/- sq ft, 10 +/-acresManufacturing /Warehouses,Modern RenovationsMay 19, 2115 Opp/Andalusia Hwy205.326.0833gtauctions.comGranger, Thagard & Assoc, Inc.,Jack F. Granger, #873.    5-12-1-10LANE AUCTIONS, LLC PRESENTSWholesale Auction May 19th
Public Auction May 14th & May 28th
facebook:  LaneAuctions,LLCwholesale
904-654-3682 
Kenneth Lane Auctions, LLC   AB3147    
5-12-1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor-
rections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale 5 Real Estate 7 Computers● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
1994 Chevrolet Cavalier For SaleOnly 64,000 Miles, Selling For $2000Great Condition, Brand New BatteryOnly One Previous OwnerContact Ivy 850-867-1792    5-17-16-3-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 
Vehicle Fast! Running or Not.
Nationwide Free Towing
Same Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647     5-12-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     6-7-16-5-13
Plannig to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
5-31-16-7-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled 
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com     
5-19-15-11-14
YARD WORK
Approximately 1 mile from campus. $10/hr
Approximately 3 hrs per visit. Flexible.Call 352-505-9022     5-19-4-14
Looking for an office cleaner ; mon5p, 
tues5p, th12p, fri5p, sat 12p; weekly pay 8.50/hr; lots of driving involved so one must have a car, be able to pass a drug/back-ground check too; if interested please con-tact me at 3522140868 [I'm also looking for someone to clean empty homes/Apts when people move out     5-24-5-14
 
1800GOTJUNK is hiring outgoing/fit 
gals/guys for part time driver position. 
Student or recent graduate preferred. 
+21 age req'd for insurance. $10 - $15/
hr. Email cover letter and resume to 
gainesvillecentral@1800gotjunk.com
5-19-16-4-14
Retired person needs student P/T a few hrs per week (8-12) for yard work, house-keeping, etc. Home close to UF. $9. per hr. Short resume, reply with time/hrs available. ghpolkgator@gmail.com    5-24-4-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Permeant PT Financial Asst.15-18 hrs wkly: Detail oriented professional w/ bookkeeping, computer, phone & general office skills send your resume to Sarah@holytrinityGNV.org    5-19-16-4-14 
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-
25-14Automotive Sales Professionals
Gainesville Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram has 
sales opportunities for enthusiastic candi-
dates and we're willing to provide additional 
training to help develop your talents!  We 
have the traffic, inventory, and the leads for 
you to take auto sales to the next level.     
REQUIREMENTS
- Previous sales experience preferred but not 
required
- Excellent customer service skills, integrity, 
and a polite and professional demeanor
- Strong computer skills 
- Strong negotiation, problem solving, and 
presentation skills
- High level of motivation and demonstrated 
ability to lead and succeed
- Flexible schedule to include evenings and/
or weekends. 
- Valid driver’s license with clean driving re-
cord
BENEFITS
- THE BEST PAY PLAN ON MAIN STREET!
- Medical & Dental 
- 401K
- Paid vacation
- Career Growth
Send resume to
greatdealershipjobs@gmail.com or
apply in person Monday through Friday:
Gainesville Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram 
3000 North Main St
Gainesville, FL 32609
No phone calls please.  eoe/dfwp 5-12-16-
2-14
ACROSS
1 Carmen of jazz
6 Ludicrous
11 It may be declared14 Popular font15 “Bleeding Love”
singer Lewis
16 Legendary fighter17 Breakfast order19 Tee, for one20 Hymn relative21 __-color pasta
salad
22 Grand cousins24 Goth accessory27 Sugarloaf lift28 Make equipment
changes
30 Austen classic
32 Egypt’s second
president
35 Breakfast order
38 Summer hrs. in
Philly
39 Call off the affair41 Expert follower?42 “However ... ”45 Regular hangouts48 Shootout shout49 In shreds51 Wig out53 Mentor’s offering57 Where the world
is really flat?
60 Part of M.S.: Abbr.61 Seaside raptor62 Explosive state63 Intersecting road
... and one of apair indicated byeach puzzlecircle
66 Price of
admission
67 All together68 Stranger69 Enjoy oysters,
say
70 Runner of 199271 Like Satchmo’s
singing voice
DOWN
1 Worker with
blocks
2 Set of beliefs3 Stops lying4 Class for
baseball’sDurham Bulls5 North Dakota
symbol
6 White whale, e.g.
7 Org. with a
“Raise YourHand” campaign
8 Wardrobe9 Ham-handed
10 Ammunition
measurement
11 Line in a utility
network
12 Gazillions13 Turbulent
currents
18 Nation east of
Sudan
23 Sonny or Cher25 RNs’ workplaces26 Compliment to a
boxer
29 Half of CXII
31 Coach’s aide:
Abbr
32 Service stopper
33 Adderall target34 United
Federation of
Planets affiliate
36 Ones bonded by
a common
culture
37 “Sounds good”40 Little beef
43 Like most
supermodels
44 Pool wear
46 Reviewer of books
47 Put __ fight
50 McDonald’s
potato variety
52 Break down, as a
sentence
54 They may be
pressing55 Move at a snail’s
pace
56 Contest
submission
57 Certain partner58 Calculus
calculation
59 Lame, as an
excuse
64 __-Caps: 
candy
65 Nutritional stat
By C.C. Burnikel
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/12/1605/12/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, May 12, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
 05/12/16
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
xwordeditor@aol.com
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWanted – Software writing student genius.  This 
is a temporary gig and perfect for a top notch student looking to build a resume. You will be asked to look at all the components of an out-dated automation software program and incor-porate those components into a new program capable of operating in windows 7 and up. No source codes so this will be from scratch. Outdated program was written in Windows 95. Ocala based company.  To inquire, contact Tom at 352-229-9079 immediately.    5-12-16-2-14
Permanent PT Financial Asst.15-18 hrs wkly: Detail oriented professional w/ book-
keeping, computer, phone & general office skills send your resume to Sarah@holytrinityGNV.org    5-19-16-4-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
5-19-16-3-14
Experienced stunt base needed to 
work with 95lb high school cheer flyer.
Call 352-226-7040
5-26-16-5-14
ATTN: CDL Drivers – Avg. $60k+/yr$2K Sign-On BonusVoted Best Fleet 2016Love Your Job and Your TruckCDL-A Req’d  (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com       5-12-1-14
EXPERIENCED  OTR  FLATBED DRIVERS
Earn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.
Call 843-266-3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com 
EOE     5-12-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/NOTICE
OF PROPOSED REVISIONS
TO THE
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT PLAN
OF THE
METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
ORGANIZATION
FOR THE
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED AREA
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area will consider revisions to its Public Involvement Plan at its Monday, June 27, 2016 meeting at 5:00 p.m. in the Jack Durrance Auditorium, Alachua County 
Administration Building, 12 SE 1st Street, 
Gainesville, Floriida. The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area is inviting interested persons to review and comment on these proposed revisions at this meeting.
The Publicc Involvement Plan document may 
be viewed at the following website (www.ncfr-pc.org/mtpo); Alachua County Library District Branches within the Gainesville Metropolitan Area; and at its staff office, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653. For further information, call 352-955-22005-12-1-20
AUTOBIOGRAPHYOnly 25 Entries AcceptedCALL TO RESERVE NOW!Let us help you tell YOUR life storyPersonal Face-to-Face InterviewsProfessionally WrittenPrivately PrintedHandcrafted English Bound Books877-300-4601  www.lifebookusa.com     5-12-1-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
MATH TUTOR. Live tutoring online
at calcprof.com.  Former UF professor.
Over 15 years teaching experience.
Eve. & weekend hours avail.
$20-$40/hr. (352) 354-3706
5-31-16-8-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate,  Lifetime Job Placement,VA BenefitsNational Average $18.00-$22.00                                   1-866-362-6497          5-12-1-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479-7963      5-12-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?
Settle for a fraction of what you owe!
Results may vary.
Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates  1-877-330-3429      5-12-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305      5-12-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855-389-3099     5-12-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?
Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855-995-3142      5-12-1-16
THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   21 
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Mike Holloway and the Florida track and ﬁ  eld teams are set to compete in the SEC Outdoor Championships this weekend. Read the story on pg. 24 Virginia T ech basketball player transfers to Florida
Jalen Hudson, a 6-foot-5 guard who averaged 8.4 points and 2.3 rebounds 
as a sophomore for the Hokies last season, will transfer from Virginia T ech to Florida, according to multiple reports. Hudson has two years of eligibility remaining after he sits out the  2016-17 season, per NCAA transfer rules.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
To Kevin O’Sullivan, Southeastern Conference play is a grind.
Florida’s ninth-year coach said he has trouble explaining it to 
teams outside the league.
“You use that word grind, and people don’t understand it,” he 
said. “It can get to be exhausting because you’re constantly playing high quality opponents.”
Simply put, there’s no time for a break.
SEC play is what O’Sullivan likes to call “big-boy baseball.”
Every pitching staff has arms that throw in the low- to mid-90s.Every lineup is dynamic and features a potential MLB ﬁ  rst-round-
er.
Last weekend, it was Tennessee’s Nick Senzel. This weekend, it’ll 
be Vanderbilt’s Jeren Kendall, as the No. 1 Gators (41-8, 16-7 SEC) host the No. 12 Commodores at McKethan Stadium on Friday at 7 p.m. to open a three-game series.
Vanderbilt (36-13, 14-10 SEC) has skidded as of late, dropping 
three of its last four games including being no-hit by Texas A&M over 
the weekend in a series loss to the No. 2 Aggies.
But make no mistake — VU is still an elite team.
Florida will face two of the top pitchers in the SEC in Kyle Wright 
and Jordan Shefﬁ  eld. Wright’s 1.89 ERA leads the SEC, while Shef-
ﬁ  eld’s 2.09 ERA ranks third.
“You’re gonna see some elite arms from Vanderbilt,” O’Sullivan 
said. “We’re gonna have to be locked in.”
Fortunately for the Gators, they can match the Commodores on 
the mound. With elite arms on display, No. 1 Florida hosts No. 12 Vanderbilt  
Game 1 is 7 p.m. Friday
MEN'S TENNIS
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team exceed-
ed all expectations.
On April 24, UF defeated preseason fa-
vorite Georgia 4-2 to capture the program’s 
ﬁ  rst Southeastern Conference Tournament Championship in ﬁ  ve years.
Since that victory, the No. 9 Gators 
(18-6) have shifted their focus to the NCAA Championship, where they will host their ﬁ  rst-round matchup against un-ranked North Florida (11-11) on Saturday at noon.
UF has been tough to beat in Gainesville 
this season, sporting a 10-1 home  record and outscoring opponents 66-11 at the Ring Tennis Complex. 
For coach Bryan Shelton, holding a 
home-court advantage over UNF has only increased his enthusiasm as he’s contin-ued to prepare for this weekend’s contest.
“We are looking forward to hosting,” Shelton said in a release.
 “It has been a great year and our guys 
have put us in a position to have our fans 
come out and see us play again.” 
But While Shelton is optimistic about 
UF's chances this year, his teams haven't 
fared well in the tournament in the past.
Florida has suffered two ﬁ  rst round 
losses and is a dismal 2-3 in the NCAA Championship since Shelton became its head coach in 2012.
However, the 2016 SEC Coach of the 
Year isn’t lacking in postseason success. Shelton led the Georgia Tech women’s tennis team to its ﬁ  rst national champion-ship in 2007 behind a 21-match win streak 
to end its season.
If Shelton wants to lead the Gators to a 
similar fate this year, he and his team will 
have to get past a talented North Florida team.
The Ospreys are making their ﬁ  rst 
NCAA Tournament appearance in pro- Florida to face North Florida 
in ﬁ  rst round of NCAAsWOMEN'S TENNIS
UF IS ON A 16-MATCH WINNING 
STREAK.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
After winning both the Southeastern 
Conference regular season and tourna-
ment titles, the No. 1 Florida women’s 
tennis team is exactly where it wants to 
be.
The team is on a 16-match winning 
streak, with wins over other tournament teams including Georgia, Vanderbilt, Au-burn and South Carolina.
But that was all in SEC play. In the tournament, the Gators (21-2) 
will be forced to prove themselves against elite teams from conferences across the nation. 
“I think the key thing for our players is 
to feel like they are getting better,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release after winning the SEC Tournament. “The little things that we work on week in and week out seem to prevail.”
While the Gators have seen themselves 
improve over the course of the season,  
their home-court advantage may play a 
bigger factor than any prior preparation. 
Florida has won 157-straight dual 
matches at home.
At the Ring Tennis Complex on May 
13-14, the Gators will host the ﬁ  rst and second round of the NCAA tournament, with their ﬁ  rst matchup coming against South Carolina State. The winner will face 
the winner of Syracuse and Georgia State. 
The rest of the tournament will take place in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
This is just the sixth time the two 
teams have met, and South Carolina State will be looking to unseat a UF team that has made it to at least the quarterﬁ  nals of the NCAA tournament every season since 2010. 
The Bulldogs went 8-10 on the year Gators  start play in NCAA 
Tournament on FridaySEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 23
SEE MEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 23 SEE WOMEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 23
Big Finish
Florida coach Kevin O'Sullivan walks on 
the ﬁ  eld at McKethan Stadium before UF's 10-4 loss to Mississippi State on April 9. O'Sullivan and the No. 1 Gators close out the regular season with a three-game series against No. 12 Vanderbilt this weekend.
Jordan McPherson / AlligatorTHURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   23
Friday night starter Logan Shore has been consistent. 
The junior sports a 2.32 ERA and hasn’t earned a loss in 
nearly a year.
Shore and teammate Alex Faedo, pave the way in the 
win column with nine. Faedo has been particularly impres-
sive as of late, as he’s allowed just two runs and struck out 
26 over his last three starts.
And then there’s the pitcher scouts have ﬂ  ocked to see: 
left-hander A.J. Puk, who has pitched better than his 2-2 record suggests.
Despite coming off a career-high six walks in his last 
start against Tennessee, Puk enters the weekend with a 
3.04 ERA and has held opponents to a .195 average, which ranks third in the SEC.
But Puk, along with UF’s other pitchers, will have to 
contain a pair of Vanderbilt hitters to have success.
The aforementioned Kendall can hurt Florida in many 
ways. The sophomore outﬁ  elder is hitting a team-leading .349 with eight home runs and 23 stolen bases.
Kendall’s outﬁ  eld counterpart, junior Bryan Reynolds, is hitting .331 and has blasted 10 homers this year, which is tied for the second-most in the conference.
While the matchup with the Commodores won’t be 
easy, O’Sullivan said it’ll only make his team better as postseason play approaches.
“It hardens you up a little bit, because it’s not gonna be 
easy,” he said. “That’s one of those reasons why you want to play in this league. It challenges you.”
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgBASEBALL,  from pg 22UF's A. J. Puk holds opposing batters to a .195 batting average
gram history following a 4-0 win over USC Upstate in the Atlantic 
Sun Tournament Championship.
UNF junior Jack Findel-Hawkins is ranked No. 109 by the Inter-
collegiate Tennis Association in singles play after going 8-5 in dual matches this season.
Findel-Hawkins and his partner, junior Yannick Zuern, are also 
ranked No. 34 in doubles competition.
For Florida, freshman Alfredo Perez enters the NCAA Champi-
onship coming off an impressive performance at the SEC Tourna-ment. The first-year player went undefeated in the event, playing an integral part in UF’s championship run.
Freshman McClain Kessler also returned to action during the 
tournament after missing the Gators’ final four matches of the regular season with a hip injury.
If Florida defeats North Florida on Saturday, it will also host a 
second round match against either No. 17 South Florida (20-8) or 
No. 71 St. John’s (21-5) on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
From there, the Gators will head to Tulsa, Oklahoma, for the 
rest of the tournament.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 22
Florida is riding a 157 dual-match winning streak at home
and 4-1 in Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference play, winning the MEAC 
Championship. They are led by Intissar Rassif in singles, who was named the tournament’s Outstanding Performer, and the duo of Dakota Brown 
and Rassif in doubles. 
South Carolina State has also won 11 of the last 12 MEAC Champion-
ships.
In order to move on, the Bulldogs will have to break Florida’s home 
winning streak, currently the longest at the Division I level. They will 
also have to go up against some of the highest-ranking singles and dou-
bles players in the country.
The Gators are led by No. 4 Brooke Austin, who was named the SEC 
Player of the Year for the second-consecutive year and the ITA Southeast 
Region Player to Watch. Belinda Woolcock checks in at No. 11, while 
Kourtney Keegan is ranked No. 40 and Anna Danilina is ranked No. 63. 
In doubles, the Gators boast No. 3 Austin and Keegan, No. 42 Woolcock and Josie Kuhlman and No. 64 Danilina and Brianna Morgan.
In their last 16 matches, the Gators outscored their opponents 75-11. 
The Bulldogs, on the other hand, won seven of their last eight matches, outscoring opponents 36-12 during that stretch. 
Both teams are entering Friday’s match with some momentum, but the 
match may be determined by whether or not Florida can sustain how it 
has played all season long.
“That is probably the most important thing,” Thornqvist said. “We 
want to be able to tell our players and have our players feel like they have 
done all the work necessary all year.”
The NCAA tournament starts Friday at 2 p.m. and Florida is hoping to 
capture its ﬁ  rst title since 2012.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgWOMEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 22UF hosts the irst and 
second rounds this weekend
Jordan McPherson / Alligator 
Kourtney Keegan (left) high-ﬁ  ves Brooke Austin (right) during Florida's 6-1 win over South Florida 
on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Alfredo Perez returns a ball during Flor-ida's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.24   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MAY 12, 2016
By Kyle Brutman 
Sports Writer
Fresh off a 16-4 shellacking of 
Temple to win its second-straight Big 
East Tournament title, the No. 2 Flor-ida lacrosse team was named the No. 2 overall seed in the 26-team NCAA 
Tournament on Sunday.
“I’m just really proud of this 
group,” coach Amanda O’Leary said 
in a release after UF won the Big East title. “They started this hard work back in August. They came in ready to compete in all three segments of our season.”
Florida (18-1) earned a bye in the 
ﬁ  rst round and will play the winner of Friday’s contest between Penn State and Winthrop on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
No. 15 Penn State started off its 
season 9-2 with two wins over cur-
rently ranked teams, but has since 
gone 2-4.
However, during that span, the 
Nittany Lions barely lost to top-ranked and undefeated Maryland, 10-9, in a game where PSU led with 10 minutes left. Penn State was one of two teams to lose by just one goal to the Terrapins this season, with the 
only other one being No. 3 North Car-
olina on Feb. 27.
The Nittany Lions’ offense, which 
ranks 14th in the country with 12.88 goals per game, is led by a trio of 35-plus goal scorers. Senior Madison Cyr, freshman Madison Carter and sophomore Katie O’Donnell have scored 48, 40 and 37 goals this sea-
son, respectively. The goal scoring 
gets less varied from there, as only two other players have scored dou-ble-digit goals.
Winthrop, the Big South Tourna-
ment champion, enters Gainesville with a 20-2 record on the season. It’s two losses came by a combined four goals. 
They have scored 13.41 goals per 
game this season, which is good for ninth in the NCAA and just .04 better than the 10th-ranked UF offense.
The attack is led by senior mid-
ﬁ  elder Shannon Gallagher, who leads the team with 60 goals and is ranked second on Winthrop in assists with 23. She also leads the Eagles in 
caused turnovers (70).
And on defense, the Winthrop backline has been nearly impen-
etrable this season, allowing the na-
tion’s fourth-fewest goals per game 
(6.36). Sophomore goalie Alaina Gi-rani is coming off a tournament in which she produced 25 saves in three games, including 12 in the team’s 10-7 win over High Point to win the conference championship. She was named the tournament’s Most Valu-able Player.
UF coach Amanda O’Leary and 
her team will have the chance to scout both Penn State and Winthrop Friday. 
During their conference tourna-
ment, the Gators were led by junior attacker Sammi Burgess and fresh-man midﬁ  elder Sydney Pirreca, who both scored hat tricks in the two tour-
nament wins over Georgetown and 
Temple.Mollie Stevens made her long-an-
ticipated return to the Florida lineup in the tournament. 
Before her start against George-
town, she last played on March 19 against Maryland. At the time, she 
was second on the team with 17 goals 
behind Burgess and redshirt senior Nicole Graziano, who both had 19.
This is the third time in program 
history that Florida will have a ﬁ  rst-round bye. Each of the ﬁ  rst two times, in 2013 and 2014, the Gators beat Denver in the second round. 
With a win Sunday, UF would 
tie the program record for wins in a season with 19, which was achieved in 2012 when the Gators made their only Final Four appearance. 
@KBrut13
Kbrutman@alligator.org
 UF lacrosse opens play in NCAA Tournament on Sunday
TRACK AND FIELD
THE MEN’S TEAM WON 
THE TITLE LAST SEASON.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The Gators open up their ﬁ  rst 
day of competition today at the 
three-day Southeastern Confer-
ence Outdoor Championships in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 
Florida is attempting to win its 
sixth SEC Outdoor Championship 
between both the men’s and wom-en’s teams.
The No. 2-ranked men’s team 
is looking to repeat its success 
from last year when it returned 
to Gainesville with the SEC title. If it is able to win again this year, it will be the ﬁ  rst track team in school history to win back-to-back 
titles.
Florida’s No. 6 women’s team, 
which placed ﬁ  fth in last year’s 
competition, is headlined by red-shirt junior Kyra Jefferson. Jeffer-
son will be running the 100-meter 
dash, the 200-meter dash and will be part of the both the 4x100 and 4x400 relay teams, which both hold the SEC-leading times. 
Jefferson (200 meters) and red-
shirt senior Eddie Garcia (10,000 meters) will also try to become back-to-back SEC champions.
The Gators will be up against 
some elite competition, with six of the top 11 teams and 10 of the top-25 teams in the country competing on the women’s side. Six of the 
top nine men’s teams in the coun-
try will also be participating.
Competition begins today with 
Andres Arroyo in the 800-meter 
dash prelim and continues into 
Saturday.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Florida begins competition at SEC Outdoor ChampionshipsThe Gators are the No. 2 seed