We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 129 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
Florida baseball 
defeats FSU 3-2
Mike Rivera hit a two-run 
home run, pg. 13
By Felicia Solazzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is encouraging students to use an app to 
make campus safer for birds.
UF’s Department of Wildlife Ecology and 
Conservation started the Bird Window Col-
lision Project this semester to identify which 
windows birds are likely to crash into, said 
Mark Hostetler, a UF wildlife ecology and con-servation professor.
Through the project, the department hopes 
to identify which buildings need to be made safer for birds, he said. During spring, birds ﬂ  y south after winter. Many of them die around this season when they accidentally crash into windows. 
On Sunday, a ﬂ  ock of cedar waxwings col-
lided into the window of the Harrell Medical Education Building on Newell Drive, Hostetler said. At least 25 of them died. The department is asking students to report 
dead birds found on the ground through iNatu-ralist, a free app, he said. Students can make reports through the app’s “University of Florida Bird Window Collision Project” section.
“Bird window strikes is a common problem 
throughout the U.S.,” Hostetler said. “We knew there’s buildings on campus that are problem-atic, but we just didn’t know which windows.”
Students need to submit pictures of the bird 
from three angles: the dorsal, or the backside; the ventral, or belly and the lateral, or the bird’s side. In addition, they ask for the location of the  UF aims to protect birds from windows with new app 
SEE BIRDS,  PAGE 4By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Daniel Foley took a cold 
shower at Hume Hall on Tues-day morning.
The UF chemical engineering 
freshman was one of hundreds 
of students affected by an emer-
gency stream outage Tuesday. 
The UF Physical Plant Divi-
sion turned off steam for 23 buildings on campus, including some residence halls on Gale Lemerand Drive and some engi-neering buildings.
The steam, which regulates 
the temperature in the building, could have affected hot water, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. The plant turned off steam after ﬁ  nding a valve near fail-ure.
Workers for the division no-
ticed the problem during routine inspections, she said.
“The Physical Plant Division 
regularly inspects our infra-
structure,” Sikes said.
Although seven days warning 
are typically given, the Physical 
Plant sent out notiﬁ  cations one day before the outage.
Sharon Blansett, the assistant 
to the associate vice president for Student Affairs, said housing staff notiﬁ  ed students as soon as 
they knew.
While Foley said he knew of 
the outage, he needed to shower 
after waking up.
“I regret not waking up ear-
lier to take a hot shower,” the 19-year-old said.
All buildings affected by the 
outage have steam again, Sikes 
said.  
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgS team outage for 23 
buildings on TuesdayCAMPUSBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
When W. Robert Knechel’s plane 
landed in Brussels, Belgium, on the 
morning of March 22, everything was normal.
But while the UF accounting profes-
sor was waiting to get off the plane, the pilot announced there had been an ex-plosion.
“You don’t know what’s going on, 
and nobody knows what’s going on,” he 
said. “How do you compare something 
like this to almost anything?”
After the destruction cleared, more 
than 30 had been killed and about 260 were injured after two bombs went off.
Knechel, who travels to Belgium three 
or four times a year to work at a joint research facility outside of Brussels, said he could see smoke from the plane, but he was never in any danger.
He texted his wife and his daughter 
during the hour-long wait on the plane before learning on Twitter that the explo-sions were caused by bombs, he said.
He was herded into a hangar with 
about 1,000 people, he said.
Knechel said he was lucky; he wasn’t 
hurt, and he was able to walk away from the rubble.
But the people of Belgium are not so 
lucky.“I’ve got some friends where this is 
their new reality,” he said.
Lambert Vaes, originally from Bel-
gium and a friend of Knechel, agrees.
“It’s not that the city is all at once un-
safe, it’s just the few people that make others miserable,” the 58-year-old said.
But Knechel said the bombing won’t 
stop him from doing research in Belgium.
“I’m not going to stop traveling,” he 
said. 
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org UF professor to still travel after Brussels attacks
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
THROUGH DARKNESS, LIGHT
The UF Concert Choir sings of death during their performance, “Angels and Demons: Shades of Light, ” 
on Tuesday evening at the University Auditorium. The evening explored “timeless choral music that grapples with the idea of Good and Evil, ” according to the event’s Facebook page.
“W e knew there’s buildings on campus 
that are problematic, but we just didn’t 
know which windows.”
Mark Hostetler
UF professorHe conducts research for UF there
Knechel
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Fulbright Awareness Month 
Events
For Departments and Student 
Coordinators: Fulbright Fellow 
and Scholar Workshop today from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. at the UF International Center. 
Light breakfast will be served. 
Please register at Eventbrite.com or search by event title. For U.S. Students: U.S. Student Program Info Session today from 3 p.m. 
to 3:50 p.m. (eighth period) at 
the UF International Center. Refreshments will be served.
UF Digital Collections celebrates 
10 yearsCome and celebrate the UF Digital Collections’ (ufdc.ufl.edu) 10th birthday today from 2:30 p.m. to 
3:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, 
Room 100. This informal party will include brief presentations on the history of the UF Digital 
Collections and the role they play 
in digital scholarship, introduced by Chelsea Dinsmore, director of digital production services. Open to the community. Light refresh-
ments served.#SweatForSTF Relay Race on 
Thursday
Prepare to sweat for a whole new cause. Enjoy a good workout 
while supporting girls’ education 
during She’s the First UF’s sec-ond annual #SweatForSTF Relay Race on Thursday from 5 p.m. 
to 7 p.m. at Norman Field. Each 
member of the team that com-pletes the relay in the shortest amount of time will be awarded a gift card. Be part of a national 
campaign to help promote gender 
equality and raise funds to spon-sor girls’ education in developing countries by registering with your 
peers. For more information, visit 
bit.ly/1DBAiXz or email STF UF at shesthefirstuf@gmail.com.
East and West, Cuban and 
American: The Foods of HomeThursday at 5:30 p.m. on the third floor of Smathers Library, Ruth Behar from the Department of 
Anthropology at the University of 
Michigan will discuss the Jewish cuisines of East and West, of Islamic and Christian Europe and their gradual fusion as her fam-
ily moved from Cuba to the U.S. 
That journey continues to unfold, as she now travels back and forth to Cuba to connect with the is-land and its revitalized Jewish community and evolving arts and gourmet food culture. She will talk about the many meanings of 
the foods of home — emotional, 
cultural, economic, religious and political — in hopes of illumi-nating a complex Cuban-Jewish 
search for a sense of belonging in 
the world. Sponsored by the Isser and Rae Price Library of Judaica.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 129
HIGH  82° LOW  63°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales InternSales Representative
Resume builderGain sales experience
Learn prospecting skills
Personalized classroom training
First-hand sales experienceFlexible schedule
No weekends
Minimum 10-hour work weekImprove communication skillsImprove communication skills
Email resume to Ms. Jordan Thurn at
intern@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Summer 2016
Email resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
*Must be enrolled in summer classes at UF or Santa Fe to apply
 
RESEARCH ROUNDUPBy Wesley Durrance
Alligator Contributing Writer
A stain-resistant coating patented by UF 
researchers will be on the market in about 
six months.
Researchers developed the coating, which 
repels water, oil and other contaminants, in 2012, said Wolfgang Sigmund, a professor in UF’s Department of Materials Science and Engineering.
The coating can be sprayed or painted 
onto different surfaces, including glass, met-al and plastic, he said. After being added to an object, it becomes stainproof and water-proof.
The coating borrows from an effect found 
on the lotus plant, in which water collects in beads on the leaves, Sigmund said. The leaf is textured with small bumps and wax on its surface, causing water droplets to simply roll off.
“We mimicked nature, and we mimicked 
plants,” he said.
Sigmund said the coating could last for 
years and can be made in a variety of dull, non-reﬂ  ective colors.
In the future, he hopes to make the coat-
ing in reﬂ  ective colors for the automobile in-
dustry, because these colors keep cars cool 
by reﬂ  ecting sunlight.
Sigmund said he developed the product 
with graduate and undergraduate students.Yung-Chieh Hung, a UF graduate student 
studying superhydrophobic materials, said developing a physical product for the private sector was a new experience for him.
“You try to persuade people you can build 
a product for them,” the 27-year-old said. “If they don’t see anything, they give up.”  UF patented stainproof and waterproof coating to be sold
It can be sprayed or painted
Ants adopt after colonies fight
A UF researcher found that a species of 
ant will adopt members of conquered colo-
nies.
Kathleen Rudolph, a recently graduated 
UF biology doctoral student, found victori-ous colonies of acacia ants in Africa may 
adopt to help replenish their colony’s num-bers. Her team studied the ants for about 
nine months by putting 18 colonies into nine 
groups and having them ﬁ  ght over territory.
Fights between colonies occur when 
colonies outgrow their homes and need to expand, she said. So they ﬁ  ght to the death for more territory.
Rudolph said she wanted to look at how 
winning colonies responded to losing mem-bers who died. She wanted to see if the ants 
were vulnerable after a win and whether 
they would adopt surviving ants to offset the losses.Rudolph said she ﬁ  rst thought the victori-
ous ants would take ants in their early life 
stages, including the larva and pupa.
Instead, researchers found the colony 
would take almost anyone, she said.
“We found, in some cases, the winner 
colony doesn’t end up killing the loser colo-
ny’s queen,” Rudolph said.
The study was conducted by bending 
and tying together the acacia tree the ants live in, she said.
The research also showed that, eight 
months after the ﬁ  ght, the genetic makeup of the ants changed due to the inﬂ  ux of ad-
opted ants, she said.
“I hope it encourages more exploration 
into how ant’s recognition systems works,” Rudolph said.
- John Avery GuytonUF researcher spearheads butterfly study
A UF researcher led the discovery of a 
new butterﬂ  y species.
Andrew Warren authored a study on 
the Oeneis tanana butterﬂ  y, which The 
Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera published March 15.
The last species found under the Oe-
neis genus was found 28 years ago, he said.
Warren, the senior collections manag-
er at the McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity at the Florida Museum 
of Natural History, worked with a gradu-
ate student and realized the butterﬂ  y may be an ancient hybrid, according to the study.
The Oeneis tanana is found around 
the Tanana River in Alaska, where War-ren discovered the butterﬂ  y while curat-ing a collection of a different Oeneis spe-cies in 2010.
Researches from around the world — 
including St. Petersburg, Russia; Seattle, Washington; and Dallas, Texas — ana-lyzed the butterﬂ  y for years.
Researchers linked the new butter-
ﬂ  y’s features to one species and its DNA to another, leading them to the hybrid theory.
“Once we study the genome, we’ll 
know if it’s a hybrid,” Warren said.
Warren said he’ll test the theory when 
he visits Alaska in summer 2017 to col-lect more butterﬂ  ies and take them home for analyzing.
“It sort of forces a re-evaluation of 
that whole genus, actually,” he said. 
- Anisha Dutt“W e mimicked nature, and we 
mimicked plants.”
Wolfgang Sigmund
UF Department of Materials 
Science and Engineering professorbird. Hostetler said birds are more 
likely to hit windows that aren’t re-flective or tinted.
“They either see sky or forests 
and they think they can fly (through) 
it, so highly reflective windows are 
the worst,” Hostetler said.
Hostetler said he expects to know 
which UF buildings are most prob-lematic by late April or early May.
Gaby Placido, a UF wildlife ecol-
ogy and conservation senior, said birds face many challenges while migrating.
“They have to take on predators. 
They suffer from a lot of pollution and deforestation of habitat,” the 23-year-old said. 
Placido said she thinks the win-
dows of Weimer Hall and the Hub could pose a threat to birds, as well as the new addition of the Reitz Union. 
“We’re hoping that the bluish tint 
helps a little,” she said. “I haven’t yet seen any collisions there, but that doesn’t mean there haven’t been any.”4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
BIRDS,  from pg 1The app is 
iNaturalistABOUT 20 STUDENTS 
PAINTED.
By Kathleen Hyatt
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students painted words to drive 
out poverty on a dark blue wall 
Tuesday.
UF’s chapter of Nourish Inter-
national, which educates people 
about extreme poverty, had around 
20 students paint over the word “poverty” on the Plaza of the Americas. By the end of the event, called Paint Out Poverty, the word was barely recognizable, said Jack-ie Zambrano, the leader of the UF chapter.
Students painted words such as 
“ingenuity,” “equality” and “kind-ness” during the event, which had been held in previous years.  
Jackie Bornstein, a member of the chapter, said the group didn’t 
have the time or funds to hold it 
last year but wanted to bring it back.
“It’s a visual representation of 
what our work does for our pover-ty,” the UF psychology sophomore said.
The 19-year-old said she hopes 
students think about what they can 
do to alleviate poverty and create 
hope.
“It’s sad that people don’t know 
about (poverty),” Bornstein said. “I just feel that it’s important to re-member that the rest of the world exists outside of here.”
Niki Namazi, a UF psychology 
senior, painted “unity” in blue on 
the wall.
“I felt as though a lot of people 
don’t think poverty is their prob-
lem,” the 21-year-old said. “Some-times, I just feel that everyone has to come together for a cause.”Students paint words 
of hope to end poverty
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Caroline Downey, a 19-year-old UF international studies freshman, smiles on Tuesday afternoon on 
the Plaza of the Americas during UF’s Nourish International’s Paint Out Poverty event.
By Madeleine DeSena
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students will now have to pay more 
to park at the Reitz until the end of the 
school year.
UF Transportation and Parking Services 
has restricted parking in the Reitz Union parking garage throughout the end of the year, wrote Scott Fox, the director of TPS, in an email. All-day spots will be reserved for those taking tours of UF and other events.
Only 45-minute and 2-hour spots will be 
available, he said.
Ron Fuller, the assistant director of TPS, 
said the main purpose of the garage is for campus visitors.
“When spaces open, there’s no problem 
with any faculty, staff or students parking there; we encourage it,” he said.
Fuller said he urges students to buy a 
decal and park in the designated commut-
er lots instead of using the Reitz garage as 
their primary source for parking.
Daniely Cruz, a UF industrial and sys-
tems engineering senior, said she has left 
class or meetings early to pay for parking 
every two hours. She learned about the re-strictions after pulling into the garage Tues-day.
“When I got here, the man said that all 
of the all-day parking spots are reserved,” the 23-year-old said at around 2 p.m. “I’ve had to come back every two hours since 8 a.m. to pay.”
Jane Matthew, a UF sociology senior, 
said she wishes there was a better system for paid parking on campus.
“I’d rather pay for how long I’m actually 
parking instead of paying every two hours if I’m not here for the full time,” the 21-year-old said. “I got here at 2 (p.m.) and paid until 4 (p.m.), but have to pay for another full two hours because I’m on campus until 
4:30 (p.m.).”Reitz parking to be limited for students until the end of year 
By Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kim Ponzio’s teammates will 
paint wings on their faces and push 
an airplane-shaped bed Saturday morning.
Ponzio’s team, the Amazing 
Gracers of Grace United Method-ist Church, signed up to compete in the second annual Bed Race, in which teams of five build beds on wheels and race them to bring awareness to child homelessness.
The free event runs from 9 a.m. 
to noon at the Santa Fe College 
track, located 3000 NW 83rd St.
Family Promise of Gainesville 
is a mobile homeless shelter that 
moves its beds to open spaces, such as service organizations and places of worship, said Jayne Moraski, the executive director of the organiza-tion.
“Our beds are literally on 
wheels, so it is pretty appropriate to have a race with beds on wheels,” she said.
The fundraiser, she said, repre-
sents the plight of homeless fami-lies, specifically those with chil-dren, who are forced to constantly relocate.
Each of the teams paid an entry 
fee of $100 and was encouraged to raise another $750, Ponzio said.
She said someone dressed as a 
pilot will ride on the team’s bed, 
built to look like a biplane, while others push from behind.
Each team’s rider must be at 
least 100 pounds, Ponzio said, and the beds must have four wheels on 
the ground, pushed by four runners who all have their hands on the bed when crossing the finish line.
Ponzio said her team hopes to 
not only raise awareness and mon-ey, but also to send a message.
“Trying to lift others up until 
they can get back on their feet,” she 
said.Bed race hopes to impact child homelessness
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A school bus driver struck a pedestrian Tues-
day afternoon, appearing to run her over.
At about 2 p.m. Tuesday, a woman in her 20s 
began to walk across a Northwest 13th Street 
crosswalk when a bus hit her, Gainesville Police 
spokesman Officer Ben Tobias said.
The driver of bus number 2215, owned by the 
Alachua County Public Schools system, told po-
lice she did not see the woman, Tobias said.The driver told police she was turning left 
onto 13th Street from Northwest Seventh Avenue 
when the crash occurred, he said.
Based on a preliminary investigation, Tobias 
said it appeared the driver ran over the woman 
with two of the bus’ front tires.
“Thankfully, miraculously, she has not suf-
fered any life-threatening injuries,” he said.
After the crash, a nurse on scene gave the 
woman first aid until police arrived at about 2:15 p.m., Tobias said.
“She was awake and alert and talking when officers got here,” he said, adding that she was taken to the hospital soon after.
Tobias said GPD is investigating the crosswalk 
light to determine who had the right of way.
As police cleared the scene, the bus driver sat 
on a curb with her two passengers: a young boy and girl. Officials with the school system, who de-clined to comment, drove the children and driver away from the scene in a marked county car.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgBus transports children, runs over woman The spots are for UF tour groups
LOCALBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was arrested early 
Tuesday morning after police said he stole 
a car, ran several stop signs and crashed into a house — all with a crack pipe in his jacket.
At about 3 a.m. Monday, 34-year-old 
Thomas C. Wright stole a car in the 1900 
block of NW Seventh Place, according to a po-lice report.
Early Tuesday morn-
ing, police watched Wright drive past a red light and hit a curb, ac-
cording to a police report.
Police drove behind 
Wright and noticed he 
was behind the wheel of a stolen vehicle, 
according to the report.
When the police car’s siren wailed, 
Wright refused to pull over and instead sped through stop signs, according to the report.
After a brief chase past several blocks, 
Wright tried to make a left turn and crashed into a brick house in the 900 block of SW Eighth Ave., Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
He then left the car and ran, according 
to the report. After commanding Wright to stop, police used a stun gun to detain him, later ﬁ  nding a driver’s license that was 
suspended in 2008.
In Wright’s jacket, police found a crack 
pipe lined with cocaine residue, according 
to the report.
Police arrested Wright on a total of 12 
charges including grand theft auto, drug possession, and hit and run.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where he remains, as of press 
time, in lieu of a $55,000 bond. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
HE SPOKE ON TUESDAY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
An Irish Methodist minister addressed 
peace after violence Tuesday.
Reverend Gary Mason spoke to about 60 
people on how he’s helping bring peace to 
Northern Ireland. His presentation took place 
at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service 
in the Pugh Hall Ocora at 6 p.m. and was free 
to the public. 
Mason, who was not paid to speak, dis-
cussed the conﬂ  icts that have occurred in Ireland, including instances of terrorism and 
how they have affected residents.
“We have a long way to go to deal with 
that troubled history of 800 years,” he said. 
“Memory is a two-edged sword. It can make reconciliation possible or it can hinder recon-ciliation.”
Mason told students it is important to ac-
cept other identities in order to bring peace.
“All of us in this room have dual identi-
ties,” he said. “My hope is that there is a blur-ring of identity. People should see the good in others.”
Gail Sasnett, the assistant director of pub-
lic programs for the Bob Graham Center, said more students than she had expected attend-ed the event.
“We are all about student engagement, 
and so if we can introduce students to causes 
they can be passionate about, it gives them an 
opportunity to learn and engage,” she said.
Sasnett said she felt Mason’s talk would be 
relatable because of the time of year and the latest news on terrorism.
“He seemed like an appropriate speaker to 
have in March after St. Patrick’s Day and also the issues of terrorism that relate to today’s conﬂ  icts,” she said.
Grace Chun, a UF psychology sophomore, 
said she has a friend in Belfast, Ireland, on a year-long mission trip. 
Chun said she learned a lot about the con-
ﬂ  ict in Ireland from Mason’s talk.
“I thought the talk was really interesting,” 
the 20-year-old said. “I think it can be applied whether you have faith or not.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgIrish minister tells students to accept others
By Mary Kate Cobb
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students painted ﬂ  ower 
pots green, red, yellow and blue 
on the Plaza of the Americas on 
Tuesday.
Student Government’s Fresh-
man Leadership Council held its 
ﬁ  rst Spring Forward, Look Back 
event during which students 
painted ﬂ  ower pots, threw bean-bags while playing cornhole and wrote advice for incoming fresh-man.
“It’s about welcoming the new 
freshman class that’s going to be here in literally two or three months,” said Ali Kassam, the chairman of FLC.
They started planning the 
event — for which SG gave about $450 in funding — at the begin-ning of the semester, he said.
Students who had ﬁ  nished 
their ﬁ  rst years wrote advice on a large white poster, Kassam said. The poster, which read, 
“When I was a freshman, I wish I 
knew…,” had about 30 responses by the end of the event.Anisha Patel, a UF ﬁ  nance 
freshman, decided to stop by the event.
She painted a pot to bring back 
to her residence hall to brighten her room, she said.
Patel painted her ﬂ  ower pot 
with red ﬂ  owers and a blue rim while her friend painted her pot 
blue and yellow and wrote “Hello 
Spring” on it.
The 19-year-old said she hopes 
future freshmen take each day in 
stride.
“My ﬁ  rst semester I didn’t 
think it was as overwhelming to 
be here because I knew a lot of friends, and I had a good support 
system,” she said. “But when 
classes start getting tough, you know what you as an individual can handle.” Students ‘Spring Forward, Look Back’ 
CRIME
 Police: Man 
steals car, crashes home
Mary Kate Cobb / Alligator
Anisha Patel, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  nance freshman, paints a 
ﬂ  ower pot during Student Government’s Freshman Lead-ership Council’s Spring Forward, Look Back event on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday.SG hosted the eventWright
“It’s about welcoming the new 
freshman class that’s going 
to be here in literally two or 
three months.”
Ali Kassam
FLC chairmanMeryl Kornﬁ  eld / Alligator Staff
Reverend Gary Mason speaks to about 60 people on Tuesday evening at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service in Pugh Hall. The Irish minister talked about the conﬂ  icts and terrorism in Ireland and how it has affected those who live there.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
‘Battle of the Wives,’ women as political weapons
It was only a matter of time until Trump 
and Cruz’s wives were dragged into this bizarre, machismo-fueled Republican 
primary race. In an election campaign 
seemingly more concerned with how big 
Trump’s “hands” are than with actual political discourse, no one’s shocked these potential 
ﬁ  rst ladies have been reduced to nothing more 
than weapons — but that doesn’t make it any less unsettling.
To brieﬂ  y recap for those readers who have 
successfully dodged the ﬁ  nger-pointing hype, it all start-
ed with an anti-Trump super PAC called Make America 
Awesome. No, I’m serious. According to The Atlantic, the PAC ran an ad in Utah featuring a nude photo of Me-lania Trump from a 2000 issue of British GQ with the ac-
companying text, “Meet Melania Trump. Your next ﬁ  rst 
lady. Or, you could support Ted Cruz on Tuesday.” De-spite “Lyin’ Ted” Cruz’s claim he had no connection with Make America Awesome, Trump threatened to “spill the beans” about Heidi Cruz via Twitter. The beans remained 
unspilled, but Trump still managed to retweet a picture 
comparing Heidi and Melania’s physical appearance with the description, “No need to ‘spill the beans.’ The images are worth a thousand words.” Chaos ensued.
Again, no one is surprised this happened. Despite gen-
eral rules of civility making it a low blow to bring spous-es into the presidential scufﬂ  e, it happens. Adding to the Twitter feud’s inevitability is Trump’s overwhelmingly misogynistic rhetoric, something he frequently employs 
in his unending feud with Fox News reporter Megyn Kel-
ly. In fact, many people claim the candidate’s wives are fair game, pointing to Melania’s conscious decision to take the GQ photos and Trump’s knowledge they would 
inevitably be used as political ammo.
Like it or not, nude bodies don’t hold the same gravi-tas they once did. New York Times columnist 
Jennifer Weiner makes the observation that “now, in the worlds of politics and pop cul-
ture, boudoir shots and even sex tapes have 
gone from guaranteed embarrassments to oc-casional assets to, sometimes, barely matter-ing at all.” So, while the Utah ad may make an 
insigniﬁ  cant impact — if any — on the cam-
paign or on Melania Trump’s public image, that doesn’t make it any more forgivable. The same goes for Trump’s attack on Heidi Cruz 
and her husband’s response of “Donald, real men don’t 
attack women. Your wife is lovely, and Heidi is the love 
of my life.”
The true issue at hand is these women are being re-
duced to their bodies, transformed into political currency 
and used as symbols of their spouses’ power and mascu-
linities in two different ways. For Cruz, Heidi’s modesty and his readiness to defend it are testaments to his mo-rality. For Trump, Melania’s sex appeal proves his power and social status. Both women are stripped of their per-
sonhood and individual accomplishments, qualities that 
are traded in for the labels of “hot” and “beloved.” Cruz may sound chivalrous coming to his wife’s defense, but he’s equally to blame for employing these tactics.
It’s misleading to look at this incident solely from the 
perspective of winning over women and cultural conser-vatives in the polls. There’s no doubt that a wide swath of voters is turned off by this “Battle of the Wives,” but that’s not the only issue. More than anything else, this 
feud is a manifestation of the candidates’ severely misled 
gender politics, and while the mudslinging may fade into the background, the motives aren’t going away anytime soon.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
usually appears on Tuesdays.Linear regression: an 
abortion law story
This is a shout-out to the ladies out there, to all of the 
unexpectedly adorned mothers and regretful soon-to-be 
baby daddies: We apologize. We apologize on behalf of 
our state legislature and Gov. Rick Scott, who signed the wide-sweeping anti-abortion bill into law Friday. 
Now our Sunshine State is on the path to joining other states, such as Texas and Mississippi, with oppressive anti-abortion legislation in circulation or already in place.
In all fairness, we at the Alligator would be more sympa-
thetic toward such anti-abortion sentiment if it were framed in moral, ethical terms. But this is not the case by any means. 
Scott and our state legislature argue that this law is designed 
to protect women with new safety rules, but we challenge any-one to read its text and ﬁ  nd a provision that seeks to genuinely 
protect women’s safety.    
Amid the questionable language of this law lies the require-
ment of physicians who perform abortions to obtain “admit-ting privileges” at the nearest hospital to their clinic. Now this 
sounds like a reasonable protection: If something goes horribly wrong during the operation, the woman should be taken to the 
nearest hospital through this registered physician.
But because hospitals generally avoid connections with po-
tential abortion politics, most deny abortion providers’ appli-cations for admitting privileges. The effect? You get what we 
saw in Texas, where the number of abortion clinics dropped from 41 in 2012 to 18 in 2015, after the state passed similar 
“admitting privileges” legislation.
Adding insult to injury, Scott’s new law mandates 
the state will only fund abortions for women who face se-vere medical consequences from continuing the pregnan-
cy or who became pregnant as a result of rape or incest, which is particularly concerning to us. Not only does this 
greatly reduce access to a medical service permitted by 
U.S. law, but it also greatly disenfranchises low-income wom-en with limited health care options.
How ironic for Scott, the self-appointed champion of small 
government, to push forth such wide-sweeping legislation on individual liberty without a single vote cast by his constituents. 
What’s up with that? Government is supposed to be small and 
keep its nose out of individuals’ lives, but if the issues at hand concern women’s health and bodies, the government might 
just have to step in and micromanage the entire process?
We’re disappointed. For no other reason than the political 
agenda of our state’s lawmakers, our state is being cast into the same anti-abortion wind sweeping over southern states 
and undermining millions of women’s rights to choose. To quote comedian John Oliver, “Abortion can’t just be theoreti-
cally legal, it has to be literally accessible.”
Now, not all is necessarily set in stone. In June 2015, after 
Scott signed into law a 24-hour mandatory waiting period for women pursuing the procedure, Florida Chief Circuit Judge 
Charles Francis shut the law down, claiming it violated rights to privacy. At this point, any action to prevent this law would 
have to come from a similar third party before it comes into 
effect on July 1 — and to think we could’ve enjoyed a nice, politics-free Fourth of July weekend.
It’s a good thing President Obama is normalizing relations 
with Cuba, because if this trend continues, American women may have to raft 90 miles south of Key West just to ﬁ  nd a safe 
abortion — something that is supposed to be available and ac-
cessible to them by law.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgHello, Gators!
It’s March: the-mid-
way point of the Spring 
semester! Hope you all 
had restful, yet fun, 
Spring Breaks! As for me, I’m currently focusing on ﬁ  nish-
ing all of the accomplishments 
I promised you all last Spring as well as focusing on graduate school.
In February, we elected new executive 
branch ofﬁ  cials and the best news was that you all voted to make remote online voting a reality! Remote online voting will hopefully increase student turnout in elec-
tions. 
In my opinion, our Student Govern-
ment voter turnout is nothing to be proud 
of. I hope that in future years, we see more participation as voting gets easier through 
remote online voting. 
In terms of all of the developments we 
saw in this Spring’s elections, the system 
is real and I ran against it when I ran to 
be your Student Body president. It’s hard 
to be in a Student Government in which your voice is part of the minority, but it’s been an eye-opening experience, and I wouldn’t trade working for you all.
In February, UF’s SG and UF’s Exter-
nal Affairs was also hard at work lobbying the state legislature for increased funding for higher education. Among many issues, 
we particularly focused on mental health 
resources and funding for Norman Hall renovations. 
I am pleased to announce that, due to 
the hard work of SG and it’s External Af-
fairs Agency, UF’s College of Education, 
UF’s Governmental Relations (the House and the Senate) and the Florida governor agreed to recommend $14.1 million in ini-
tial funding for renovation of Norman Hall 
this year. 
This brings much-needed funding to a 
historic building on campus that houses the top college of education in the South-
east. 
The building currently has electrical 
and plumbing issues, and it has asbestos 
and needs major upgrades to the roof. 
The heating, ventilation and air condi-tioning system also needs to 
be upgraded. We are happy that our efforts, such as the 
#AbovetheNorm campaign and 
the “lobbying for the Gator Good” initiative, in which we had hundreds of students write 
postcards advocating for this 
initiative, were proven to be ef-fective. 
Our state’s future teachers 
deserve adequate space to practice their 
craft, and we are excited that the state leg-
islature responded to our concerns.
On other developments, SG released a 
new website. The last administration set 
the foundation by picking a design team 
to design the website, and my administra-tion has been hard at work, including the great SG information technology, coding and adding content to this new website. 
With a new interactive and friendlier 
face, we hope that you all enjoy the new upgrade.
My administration has also been hard 
at work to provide to you a farmers mar-ket. 
Fresh off the Farm is a local food festi-
val brought to you by the Field and Fork Food Pantry, SG, UF’s Culinary Arts Stu-
dent Union and the Gator Gardening Club. 
The festival is dedicated to celebrating 
local produce, local chefs, local farmers 
and clubs on campus that serve their local 
community. This event is the ﬁ  rst of its 
kind at UF, is open to everyone and is tak-ing place at the Field and Fork Gardens, by the bat houses, April 8 from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
This week, look out for Chick-Fil-Hey 
with SG and the rest of the weekly Thurs-day events featuring Kevin, Nick and my-self in April. 
We are working hard in SG to ﬁ  nish 
our accomplishments as we are still in of-ﬁ  ce until the last week of school. If you have any comments or concerns, feel free to visit our website or email us. My email 
is president@sg.uﬂ  .edu.
Until next time, ciao!
Joselin Padron-Rasines is the UF Stu-
dent Body president. Her column appears 
monthly.Column
The European “explorers” 
who stumbled upon the Western Cape of South Af-rica and proceeded to mur-der the region’s indigenous 
knew they had found their prom-ised land. After all, why should a land and its resources belong to its native inhabitants?
Other Europeans who arrived 
in our hemisphere, who eventual-ly named after an Italian (though they thought it was India), knew they, too, were entitled to that land and should 
slaughter its inhabitants.
European Jewry some millennia later 
had the same feeling as they escaped the 
harrowing horrors of the Holocaust and settled in the newly formed state of Israel.
These scenarios merit careful juxtaposi-
tion, because they shine light on a crucial facet of colonialism: how the arrogant rac-ism of settlers, usually Europeans, begets 
systems of racial and political separation.
Afrikaners in South Africa in the 20th 
century, having amassed intense politi-
cal and economic control but still wholly reliant on the native Bantu peoples of the region, had to devise a system whereby they could systematically exploit their la-bor without granting them civil or human rights. To name their system, they chose 
the Afrikaans word “apartheid,” comprised 
of the adjective “apart,” meaning separate, and –“heid,” the equivalent of our –hood, or –ness. Thus, apartheid means “separa-tion” or “separateness.”
In practice, the policy entailed a series 
of horrible and dehumanizing laws where-by the natives of South Africa were relegat-ed to de jure servitude and not even given 
citizenship in the land of their birth. South 
Africa did, like Israel, provide a safe haven for Jews escaping the horrors of Nazism, such as the family of Percy Yutar, which escaped pogroms in Lithuania. Yutar, dis-gracefully, served as the state prosecutor who secured Nelson Mandela’s life sen-tence for “sabotage and conspiracy against the state.”
How one can escape a system of despi-
cable racism only to serve another is be-yond me, but there is no guarantee victims of historical injustice do not just as soon become victimizers themselves.
In 1961, South Africa’s then-Prime Min-
ister Hendrik Verwoerd made the admis-sion that “Israel like South Africa is an apartheid state.” Beyond the moral and ideological solidarity, Israel also furnished logistical and material support for apart-heid in South Africa, providing 
them with arms up until the 
1980s despite the international arms embargo and South Afri-ca’s pariah status.
The assertion that Israel is an 
apartheid state is controversial, but a sobering look at the reality 
of the situation provides resounding con-ﬁ  rmation that Israel’s policies against the 
Palestinians amount to nothing short of 
apartheid, probably even ethnic cleansing.
Mindful of semantics, the Zionist state 
has chosen the word “hafrada,” which in Hebrew conveys “separation,” as a descrip-tor of their system. Physically cut off from their ancestral homelands, Palestinians live in miserable, densely populated areas of the West Bank and Gaza (like South Af-
rica’s Bantustans) and are subject to a dis-
tinct set of laws and unequal treatment as well as indiscriminate attacks by the Israeli military — one of the best equipped in the world.
The U.S., which unequivocally sup-
ported South African apartheid and now operates as Israel’s sole meaningful ally, too has had its share of de jure segregation. 
After all, in the face of despicable injustice, 
white Americans reminded and still remind everyone that, after all, we’re “separate but equal.”
Focusing on the three wicked politi-
cal systems aforementioned, it is crucial to ﬁ  nd a common theme. Colonialism, as an inherently racist and arrogant practice, draws lines and seeks to erase the human-
ity of the other, in this case the native. Poli-
cies of separation, whether we call them “segregation,” “apartheid” or “hafrada,” naturally ensue, presenting us with distinct realities we can identify as unnecessary evils and against which we should struggle mercilessly.
History provides the sad reminder of this 
unfortunate behavior, but also the afﬁ  rma-
tion that systems of injustice are eventually 
dismantled through effort and struggle.
As for Israel’s apartheid , just like South 
Africa’s apartheid, its days are numbered.
A luta continua.Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics master’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
The meaning of the word ‘apartheid’
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgFrom your Student Body presidentColumn
Joselin 
Padron-Rasines
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
SENATE
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
If you get a traffic ticket, UF 
has services to help you.
At Tuesday night’s senate 
meeting, Jon Adcock, director 
of Student Legal Services, re-minded Student Government senators that UF students have 
access to legal advice and help.
“We do the regular things 
that lawyers do,” he said. “We 
do all the same stuff, I just don’t take money from (students).”
After Adcock spoke, SG’s 
newly elected committee chair-persons, who are all Impact Party members, reviewed the 
duties of each committee.
Senate president Jenny Cle-
ments and Senate Pro Tempore 
Smith Meyers spoke about SG working with other groups on 
campus, like the Student Legal 
Services.
Clements also nominated 
Wayne Selogy (Jennings, Im-
pact) as chair of the Online 
Voting Committee. She said 13 senators applied to be on the committee.
Budget and Appropriations 
chairperson Charlie Brown Jr. (College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Impact) talked about creating the budget to fund stu-dent organizations. Hearings 
for the organizations begin next 
week, he said.
“We feel like the budget we 
have submitted here is the one that is gonna serve the student 
orgs and academic orgs and 
students within those organiza-tions to the best abilities,” he said.
APPROVED:
• Funding for Gators 
Humans vs. Zombies, 
allocated $104
• Devon Leasure as a 
replacement senator for 
District A
• Praveen Varanasi 
for Budget and Appropriations committee
• Jamie Somerstein 
and Meaghan Hanley 
for Information and 
Communications 
committee
• Jacob Holloway for Judiciary committee
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSG elects chairperson, 
hears from UF lawyer
Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff
Budget and Appropriations chairperson Charlie Brown Jr. (Col-
lege of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Impact) talks about budget-ing for student organizations during the Senate meeting on Tues-day night. Hearings for the organizations begin next week, he said.
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Santa Fe College will hold a se-
ries of events leading up to Earth 
Day on April 22, starting with Par-
ty for the Planet over the weekend.
The event will take place at the 
college’s teaching zoo, located at 
3000 NW 83rd St., on Saturday and 
Sunday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., said 
Jade Salamone, the conservation education specialist of the zoo. 
Along with a chance to see 
more than 200 animals, the zoo will also offer face painting, keeper talks and crafts. 
“This year, we kind of wanted 
to do it big and have a big celebra-tion all month long,” she said.
The Santa Fe Teaching Zoo is 
a five-semester-long program that teaches students how to care for animals and become zookeepers, said Jonathan Miot, director of the zoo. 
“The zoo has been in its current 
location for 42 years,” Miot said. 
Admission is $6 for adults and 
$5 for children ages 4 to 12, se-niors ages 60 or older and UF staff and students with ID. The event is 
free for children 3 and under and 
Santa Fe students or staff members with ID.
A full list of the month’s events 
can be found on the Party for the Planet page at sfcollege.edu. 
“It’s a really important oppor-
tunity for the community to really refocus on conservation and to re-
alize that we at Santa Fe College, 
we are one of the partners in con-servation,” Miot said.Zoo to host parties throughout April
Alligator File Photo
A peacock roams around the Sante Fe College T eaching Zoo on Jan. 29, 2014. The zoo used heat lamps 
and space heaters to help the animals combat the lower temperatures.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
COMEDIC GOLDEN TICKET 
Students wait in line at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday to receive their tickets to see Trevor Noah, brought to UF by Accent Speakers Bureau. “The Daily Show” host will be speaking at the Phillips Center tonight at 8 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
THE FBI DID NOT RECEIVE 
ANY HELP UNLOCKING 
THE PHONE FROM APPLE.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
WASHINGTON — The FBI’s announce-
ment that it mysteriously hacked into an 
iPhone is a public setback for Apple Inc. 
as consumers suddenly discover they can’t 
keep their most personal information safe. 
Meanwhile, Apple remains in the dark 
about how to restore the security of its 
flagship product.
The government said it was able to 
break into an iPhone used by a gunman in 
a mass shooting in California, but it didn’t 
say how. 
That puzzled both Apple software en-
gineers and outside experts about how the FBI broke the digital locks on the phone 
without Apple’s help. It also complicated 
Apple’s job of repairing flaws that jeopar-dize its software.
The U.S. Department of Justice’s an-
nouncement that it was dropping a legal fight to compel Apple to help it access the phone also took away any obvious legal avenues Apple might have used to learn how the FBI did it. The Justice Department 
declined through a spokeswoman to com-
ment Tuesday.
A few clues have emerged. A senior law 
enforcement official told The Associated 
Press that the FBI managed to defeat an 
Apple security feature that threatened to delete the phone’s contents if the FBI failed 
to enter the correct passcode combination 
after 10 tries. 
That allowed the government to repeat-
edly and continuously test passcodes in what’s known as a brute-force attack until 
the right code is entered and the phone is 
unlocked.
It wasn’t clear how the FBI dealt with 
a related Apple security feature that in-
troduces increasing time delays between 
guesses. 
The official spoke on condition of ano-
nymity because this person was not autho-rized to discuss the technique publicly.
FBI Director James Comey has said that, 
with those features removed, the FBI could break into the phone in 26 minutes.
The FBI hacked into the iPhone used by 
gunman Syed Farook, who died with his wife in a gun battle with police after they killed 14 people in December in San Ber-
nardino. 
The iPhone, issued to Farook by his em-
ployer, the county health department, was 
found in a vehicle the day after the shoot-ing.
The FBI is reviewing information from 
the iPhone, and it is unclear whether any-thing useful can be found.
Apple said in a statement Monday that 
the legal case to force its cooperation “should never have been brought,” and it promised to increase the security of its products. CEO Tim Cook has said the Cu-pertino-based company is constantly trying 
to improve security for its users.
The FBI’s announcement — even with-
out revealing precise details — that it had 
hacked the iPhone was at odds with the 
government’s firm recommendations for 
nearly two decades that security research-ers always work cooperatively and con-fidentially with software manufacturers before revealing that a product might be 
susceptible to hackers.
The aim is to ensure American con-
sumers stay as safe online as possible and 
prevent premature disclosures that might 
damage a U.S. company or the economy.
As far back as 2002, the U.S. Depart-
ment of Homeland Security ran a working 
group that included leading technology in-dustry executives to advise the president 
on how to keep confidential discoveries by 
independent researchers that a company’s software could be hacked until it was al-ready fixed. 
Even now, the U.S. Department of Com-
merce has been trying to fine-tune those rules. 
The next meeting of a conference on 
the subject is April 8 in Chicago, and it’s 
unclear how the FBI’s behavior in the cur-
rent case might influence the government’s fragile relationship with technology com-panies or researchers.
The industry’s rules are not legally bind-
ing, but the government’s top intelligence agency said in 2014 that such vulnerabili-ties should be reported to companies.Apple remains in the dark about how FBI hacked iPhone
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
A New York police officer stands outside the Apple Store on Fifth Avenue while 
monitoring a demonstration in New York on Feb. 23. San Bernadino District At-torney Michael Ramos suggested in a court filing that one of the San Bernardino shooters might have used his iPhone, the same one at the heart of Apple’s battle with the FBI, to introduce a “lying-dormant cyber pathogen” into the county’s computer network.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
THE LAURELS 2/2 apt, $449/rm, newly renovated, wood flr, granite countertops, ss appliances, W/D in unit. Quiet, pet-friendly, gated community. Avail May 1st thru July 31. Call or text 646-789-3688    4-4-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Retiring UF Professor's Office Furniture7 armed, leather office chairs = $300. Executive Office Chair = $75. Beautiful ceil-ing fan with halogen lights = $70. Large thin LCD Monitor/TV with wall brackets = $125. Leather couch = $150. All prices firm. Would like to sell all to same person/business. Call 352-219-5539 for an appointment and pick-up at at UF office.   3-31-5-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified6 Furnishings 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ACROSS
1 Vanna’s cohort
4 Smidgens9 Thicket
14 Boston Marathon
mo.
15 Meat and greet
patio party?
16 Skylit courtyards17 Yes, to a
cowboy?
20 Sunday service
providers
21 Switz. neighbor
22 Pollen carrier
23 “M*A*S*H”
Emmy winner foracting, writingand directing
24 German autos26 Women’s
undergarment,briefly
27 Yes, to an
architect?
31 __ joint32 Cracker with a
scalloped edge
33 [uh-oh]34 Provides with a
soundtrack
35 Components of
many tips
37 Give in to
wanderlust
39 Shakespeare’s
river
40 Stockholm carrier43 Yes, to a traffic
court judge?
47 Author Rice48 Final, e.g.49 Medicine Hat’s
prov.
50 Shoot the breeze51 Org. for docs52 Exited quickly, in
slang
54 Yes, to the Magic
8 Ball
58 “Divine Comedy”
poet
59 “Fun, Fun, Fun”
car in 1960s hit
60 Make faces for
the camera
61 Labor day doc62 Church chorus63 Mini-albums,
brieflyDOWN
1 Choose paper
over plastic?
2 Ill-fated 1967
moon mission
3 Made even, to a
carpenter
4 “__ your pardon”
5 Cheerios
descriptor
6 “Give it a go”
7 Blood-typing
letters
8 Kick up a fuss
9 Uber competitors
10 Platte River tribe
11 The majors12 Online guide13 Enter gradually18 Muffin mix additive19 Con job
24 Orders with mayo
25 “Les __”: musical
nickname
26 PCs’ “brains”28 Karen
Carpenter’sinstrument
29 Member of the
fam
30 One who helps
you find a part?
34 Prom partner35 Fallopian tube
traveler
36 Rejections
37 Drink on credit38 Noise from a 55-
Down
39 Multi-platinum
Steely Dan album
40 “I was so foolish!”41 Pays for cards42 Old salts43 Get hitched44 Viral Internet
phenomenon
45 Two-horse wager46 Go up in smoke51 Yemeni port52 Capital near
Zurich
53 Supplements,
with “to”
55 Type of pen56 Tech giant57 Cube that rolls
By Bruce Haight©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/30/1603/30/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, March 30, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. MOVIES: Who starred in the mar -
tial-arts movie “Enter the Dragon”?
2. MEASUREMENTS: What unit 
of measurement contains 4,840 square 
yards?
3. HISTORY: In which war did the 
military offensive “Operation Desert Storm” take place?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was 
the last president to visit Cuba before 2016?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What process involves heating an ore to extract a metal? 
6. FOOD & DRINK: What is the 
top-selling spice in the world?
7. INVENTIONS: In what year was 
the first commercial television sold?
8. SCIENCE: What does the pH 
scale measure?
9. GEOGRAPHY: In what country is 
the Basque language spoken?
10. ENTERTAINERS: Which enter -
tainer’s biography was titled “Neither 
Shaken nor Stirred”?
Answers
1. Bruce Lee
2. An acre3. Gulf War4. Calvin Coolidge in 19285. Smelting6. Pepper7. 19288. Acidity or alkalinity9. Spain10. Actor Sean Connery, who played 
James Bond
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
March 28, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Graduation Photos by Gator Alum$150 for 1 hour session on UF campus30-40 edited digital imageswww.facebook/BoriginalArt.comCaryn Ruano (954)629-4861    4-5-16-5-14
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
It's Play Day! Come out to the Reitz Union North Lawn today from 11am-2pm to play, relax, and have some fun. There will be an inflatable bungee run, pizza, painting, games, give-aways and more! Hosted by the UF Counseling and Wellness Center and AWARE Ambassadors.    3-30-16-1-20$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not 
less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing 
responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email 
cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-
ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDED
Full time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000    3-31-5-14
Part time babysitter wanted, must be avail -
able this summer and fall.For four kids ages 7-13 (not all there at all times). Play with 7 year old, drive to activi-ties if needed, light housekeeping (help put away dishes, fold laundry, vaccum) $12/hr. Experience required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.    3-30-16-3-14
YARDWORK
Raking, weeding, minor planting, minor trim-ming. Part time, flexible hours. $10/hr. Contact 352-222-6858 or jobopp77@gmail.com    3-30-16-3-14
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14
14 Help Wanted 
 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 EntertainmentHeadline
Story description Pg#
Caeleb Dressel and the Florida 
swimming and diving team are beginning to train for the Summer Olympics.Read the story on pg. 15.By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
JACKSONVILLE — Jeremy 
Vasquez ran to the right-ﬁ  eld cor-
ner with Florida leading 3-1 in the fourth inning. 
Florida State’s Darren Miller had 
just hit a ball to the corner with Jackson Lueck on ﬁ  rst base, and the Seminoles seemed to be on the cusp of closing the gap.
Lueck sprinted around the bases 
as Vasquez picked up the ball. The sophomore right ﬁ  elder ﬁ  red the ball to the cutoff man, Dalton Guth-rie, who then threw Lueck out at 
home, preserving the Gators’ two-
run lead.
It was a lead No. 2 Florida 
wouldn’t surrender, winning 3-2 over the No. 12 Seminoles at the Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville in front of an announced crowd of 9,035, with Vasquez’s throw and the relay being the difference.
“At the moment, I just thought it 
was a momentum shifter, but now I see that it came down to a one-run ballgame. That was a huge play,” Vasquez said. “I was sprinting. I picked it up, and I threw it as fast as I could.”
Tuesday night’s game was one 
the Gators (24-3) needed to regain their focus. After losing a series for the ﬁ  rst time this season against Kentucky over the weekend, coach Kevin O’Sullivan wanted to see how his team would respond. 
Florida was focused and ready to 
answer O’Sullivan’s challenge. 
“There’s so many things that we 
did well tonight,” O’Sullivan said. “I think we were on our game tonight 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Sanders named Women's National Athlete of the Week
Florida track and ﬁ  eld athlete Shayla Sanders was named the NCAA Division I 
Women's National Athlete of the Week, the U STFCCCA announced Tuesday. 
Sanders ran an  NCAA-leading time in the 100 meters (11.13 seconds) and the 200 meters (22.77 seconds) Saturday at the Cardinal & Gold Challenge.SWEET AND BAUER
Using ﬂ  awed reasoning to quell discon-
tent — in sports or otherwise — is nothing new.
Back when I went to a private 
Catholic all-boys high school, for ex-
ample, I vividly remember school administra-
tors shaming students into conforming to the status quo. 
“You’re all just lucky to be here in the ﬁ  rst 
place,” I remember them saying. “There’s an entire waiting list of people who would be glad to take your spot, so go ahead and leave.”
Granted, whatever we were upset about 
was likely trivial. Nevertheless, I’ve always been bothered by that way of thinking when it comes to dealing with problems. 
They basically told us “Yeah, there are problems. Yeah, we’re not being fair. But if you hate it so much, there’s the door. We don’t need you.”
Because nothing says “we’re right” quite 
like telling people they’re essentially expend-able cogs in a machine.  
Now two years removed from my high school graduation, I see a similar line of rheto-ric surrounding the treatment of college ath-letes.
With the Final Four approaching, this sub-
ject was brought to the forefront by Sports Il-lustrated’s Seth Davis on Tuesday in a column titled “Will players ever stage a strike at the 
Final Four? Rumors persist each year, but I’ll 
believe it when I see it.” 
The article questions whether players are 
compensated adequately, whether monetarily or otherwise, for the revenue they provide the 
NCAA, their school and their respective con-
ferences. 
But the column takes a turn in a troubling 
direction about halfway through. Saying student athletes "have it made" misses the point
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriBASEBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
JACKSONVILLE — Jackson 
Kowar’s heart raced.
The freshman pitcher took 
the mound for No. 2 Florida on Tuesday against No. 12 Florida State at the Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville, drawing the start 
in front of 9,035 college baseball 
fans — the largest crowd of his ﬂ  edgling baseball career.
His nerves rattled as he adjust-
ed to the environment.
But after giving up a two-out 
home run in the ﬁ  rst inning to 
FSU freshman Cal Raleigh, Kowar 
settled down.
With laser-sharp focus, Kowar 
went on to strike out the ﬁ  nal bat-ter of the inning and played with 
composure throughout ﬁ  ve in-
nings of work, earning his third win of the season as the Gators defeated the Seminoles 3-2.
“A lot of times, it’s really easy 
to overthrow after that,” Kowar said. “But I just tried to stay fo-cused and not try to do too much and still locate but not try to blow 
it by everyone.”
Kowar gave up just ﬁ  ve hits — 
four of which came with two outs 
— while striking out four batters 
during his time on the mound. 
He improved to 3-0 on the season and his ERA dropped to 2.84.
“Jackson had to make some 
big pitches,” UF coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan said after the win. 
“To be honest with you, we 
were going to do everything we 
could to try to win the game. That 
was it.”Freshman 
pitcher stays hot in victory
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Florida catcher JJ Schwarz (left) tags out Florida State's Jackson Lueck (right) at home to end the 
fourth inning of UF's 3-2 win over FSU on March 29 in Jacksonville..
Defense, pitching lead Gators in win over FSU
SEE FSU,  PAGE 14“To be honest with you, we 
were going to do everything 
we could to try to win the 
game. That was it.”
Kevin O'Sullivan
UF Baseball Coachas far as being focused and being 
ready to play.”
FSU tested UF’s resiliency early. 
The Seminoles (18-6) opened the scoring in the top of the first when Cal Raleigh cranked a solo home run to right field off of UF starting pitcher Jackson Kowar. 
But Florida answered quickly. 
Facing an 0-1 count in the bottom of the second, sophomore designat-
ed hitter Mike Rivera hit a two-run 
home run to give the Gators the lead. It was his team-leading sixth home run of the season. 
“Like I said before, I don’t try to 
hit home runs. That’s not a part of my game,” Rivera said. “He threw me a changeup up, and I hit it, and it went over the fence.”
After Rivera’s home run, Kowar 
(3-0) got stronger with only one hiccup. The Seminoles put runners on the corners with two outs in the third inning trying to cut into the Gators’ 3-1 lead. The freshman got out of the jam by striking out Dylan Busby, setting up Vasquez’s hero-ics the next inning.
“That is something we work on a lot and obviously executed well,” Rivera said. “Jeremy (Vasquez) got it in quick … and JJ (Schwarz) stayed back and made a bad-ass tag.”
O’Sullivan replaced Kowar with 
another freshman pitcher, Brady 
Singer. Singer was just as effective, 
tossing three innings, allowing two hits and striking out three batters. 
FSU cut Florida’s lead to one 
when Quincy Nieporte’s bloop single to shallow right field made it 3-2 in the eighth. But Singer was able to get out of the inning with-out allowing any more damage. 
“Those two freshmen were 
outstanding,” O’Sullivan said. “To pitch in an environment like this and go eight innings against a top-10 team, a rival, and to pitch as well as they did. I think they grew up a lot.” 
Shaun Anderson shut the door 
on the game, pitching a perfect 
ninth inning and earning his fourth 
save of the season.
Florida will next host No. 1 Tex-
as A&M for a three-game series this weekend. 
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.org
And Kowar did what he need-
ed to do to win.
The 6-foot-5 righty did not al-
low a hit with runners in scoring 
position and allowed just two free 
passes.
“You saw him bear down,” 
said fellow freshman pitcher 
Brady Singer, Kowar’s roommate 
who also tossed three innings in 
the win.
The fourth inning proved to be 
Kowar’s biggest test.
After he gave up a two-out 
single to Jackson Lueck, FSU’s Darren Miller ripped a 3-1 pitch to the right-field corner. Lueck raced around the bases 
before a relay throw from Jeremy 
Vasquez to Dalton Guthrie to JJ 
Schwarz at home plate ended the inning.
“As a pitcher, 
that is the best feeling in the 
world when the defense saves 
runs for you,” 
Kowar said. “That was awe-some.”
After struggling in his South-
eastern Conference debut — walking two runners who would eventually score in Florida’s 6-2 win against Missouri on March 19 
— Kowar is beginning to string together quality outings.
Over his last two appearances 
— Tuesday and March 22 against 
Florida Atlantic — Kowar gave up just two runs and eight hits over 
9.1 innings of work while striking 
out 10 batters.
The nerves were still there, but 
the stage isn’t as big anymore for the freshman.
“You just kind of take deep 
breaths and slow the game down, which is a lot easier said than done, especially when you get 
out there and it gets loud,” Kowar 
said.
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
Up to that point, the piece is presented as 
a hypothetical conversation centered around Oklahoma star Buddy Hield, who begins by 
telling his teammates that they should boy-
cott the Final Four because they’re being taken advantage of by the NCAA. That is, until one of his teammates confronts him. 
“You want us to refuse (to live out our 
childhood dreams of playing in the Final Four) so we can get a little more money?” His hypothetical teammate says. “Have you lost your mind?”
Then comes what I feel is the most telling 
part of the piece. “Hield looks around the room, sees all 
his teammates nodding in agreement ... and 
he relents. ‘Alright, well, forget I ever men-
tioned it. Let’s get to Houston and win this thing.’”
And suddenly, we’re back at succumbing 
to the “you’re just lucky to be here at all” 
fallacy.
While I do agree with Davis that no sane 
players are going to line up to sit out the 
Final Four, his “sit back, relax and take 
what comes” approach will never yield any 
change at all. The answer to addressing con-cerns over players’ benefits may not be a boycott of the championship, but an attitude that promotes such complacency does noth-
ing but ensure things stay the same.Going back to the “you’re lucky to be 
here at all” way of thinking, Davis actually uses a different word to describe the players 
heading to the Final Four: Blessed.
“Here’s hoping they spend this weekend 
counting their blessings while ignoring the members of the chattering class who are try-
ing convince them to walk away,” he wrote.
Because God forbid the “chattering class” 
(of which I’m apparently now a member) 
encourage athletes to fight back against the 
entity that appeases and controls them. 
Now, to be fair to the players and to Da-
vis, saying that college athletes are blessed 
is not an incorrect assertion.
They’re definitely blessed to have the 
physical capabilities to allow them to excel at their chosen sport.
They’re definitely blessed to go to univer-
sities that do, for the most part, take very good care of athletes. 
And they’re definitely blessed to have 
had some timely shots fall to propel them to the Final Four.
But saying that any of their blessings 
matter when it comes to what’s fair and what’s not does nothing but avoid the issue at hand.
Ethan Bauer is the assistant sports editor. 
You can email him at ebauer@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @ebaueri.
COLUMN,  from pg 13Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jackson Kowar pitches during UF's 5-4 win over UNF on March 9 at McKethan Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera runs down the first-base line during Florida's 7-5 
win over Missouri on March 20 at McKethan Stadium. 
FSU,  from pg 13Anderson earned his 
fourth save in the winKowar has struck out 10 in his last 9.1 innings
Singer
BASEBALL,  from pg 13WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer 
Over the past two weeks, both the wom-
en’s and men’s college swimming and div-
ing seasons ofﬁ  cially concluded.
But because of the upcoming Olym-
pics, 21 swimmers from both the Florida men’s and women’s teams will spend the next three months training for the Summer 
games in Rio de Janeiro.
“We’ve got a lot of people with aspira-
tions in that matter,” UF coach Gregg Troy 
said. “They’ll all get back to what they’re doing pretty rigorously right away.”
Among the UF swimmers that are pre-
paring to qualify for the Summer Olympics, 13 will be competing for a spot on the U.S. swim team at the U.S. Olympic Trials in Omaha, Nebraska, beginning June 26. 
One of the early favorites to make the 
cut for the U.S. Olympic swimming team 
this summer is sophomore Caeleb Dressel. 
The 19-year-old from Green Cove 
Springs has not only placed himself on the 
winner’s podium and into the record books over the past month, but has also been the 
recipient of national attention.
During the Southeastern Conference 
Championships at the end of February, 
Dressel broke the national record in the 50-
yard freestyle twice on the same day with a 
ﬁ  nal time of 18.23 seconds. 
Last week in the NCAA Championships, not only did Dressel best his previous re-cord-breaking time in the 50 again (18.20), 
but he also annihilated all the single-race 
records in the 100-yard freestyle (40.46) by 0.30 seconds en-route to his second cham-pionship of the week. 
What surprised his coach and former 
team U.S.A. swimming coach was not nec-essarily his overall speed, but the amount of times Dressel was able to clock these record-breaking speeds.
“That type of consistency is amazing,” 
Troy said. 
“His work ethic is fantastic. What we 
saw was a direct correlation of the work he put in.”
Dressel will attempt to qualify for the 
Olympics in three different events, tied for second-most among Florida swimmers with sophomore Amelia Maughan and one behind sophomore Jan Switkowski.
But following the Olympics, Dressel will be right back at UF to compete in the fall. The same can’t be said of other Florida swimmers. 
The women’s team will be losing nine 
swimmers and divers to graduation, in-cluding Florida’s top diver Kahlia Warner and swimmer Natalie Hinds.
While the men’s team is only losing 
seven seniors to graduation, there will be some indispensable parts to replace from the four-time conference championship-winning class. Among the seven seniors leaving will be Arthur Frayler, arguably 
Florida’s best endurance swimmer, and 
Corey Main, UF’s second winningest male swimmer last season. 
“On the surface you hate to lose those 
guys, but at the same time (with) our re-cruiting class coming in and the younger guys we have … we feel good about the future,” Troy said.
Both teams are projected to have strong 
recruiting classes, with each currently holding a minimum of two commitments from top-50 national high school swim-mers from the 2016 class. 
And with swimmers such as Dressel, 
Switkowski and Maughan returning for the Gators next season, Troy is optimistic about the direction both of his teams are headed.
“I think the future is really bright,” Troy 
said. 
We’re not going backwards. If anything 
we’re planning on going forward on both 
sides.”
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org At season’s end, Florida swimmers prepare for Summer Olympics
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kahlia Warner dives during Florida’s win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center. 
Caeleb Dressel reacts after 
winning and setting an NCAA record with a time of 18.20 seconds in the 50-yard freestyle during the NCAA men’s swimming and diving championships on March 24 in Atlanta.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS21 UF athletes will train for Rio16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Antwan Wright prepares to take the baton during a relay race at 
the 2014 T om Jones Memorial Invite at Florida’s Percy Beard Track. 
TRACK & FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
This Thursday, the Gators will 
be competing at home for the ﬁ  rst time in almost a year.
But that isn’t the only reason 
this year’s Pepsi Florida Relays are a special experience for both the coaches and athletes.
Not only is this one of just two 
home meets of the year for both the indoor and outdoor seasons, but the Florida Relays includes a Senior Day ceremony, while also serving as a homecoming for many former Florida athletes who will be repre-senting international teams.
And this year, the stakes are es-
pecially high with the 2016 Olym-pics looming.
“I’m pretty excited. It has been 
a long four years, and to ﬁ  nally say that I have done my part here at the University of Florida, I did all I could and give it to the younger kids in the program, I’m excited,” senior Antwan Wright said of be-ing recognized at the Senior Day ceremony. “It is kind of sad that it is over.”
Although Wright won’t be com-
peting this week due to an injury sustained at the Razorback Invita-tional in January, he is excited to see his teammates compete against some of the best athletes in the world in front of a home crowd.
“We go through the season al-
ready amped up about the competi-tion. But when it is a home meet, a huge meet like Florida Relays, it is just completely different,” Wright said. “I would rather be at this meet than any other meet just because you have the family watching, you got the home crowd, friends, it brings a different side of you out … it is a fun meet, one of the best meets of the season.”
Another athlete who will be rec-
ognized at the ceremony is redshirt senior Jayla Bostic. At the Cardinal and Gold Challenge on March 25 and 26, Bostic ﬁ  nished ﬁ  rst in the women’s hammer throw with a dis-tance of 61.06 meters. That mark earned nine points for her team and placed No. 7 on Florida’s all-time outdoor top 10. She is looking to do more of the same during the Relays.
“Last week I had a pretty good 
meet, so this week I want to come out and obviously build on it,” Bos-tic said. “I am competing in the invite, so there are a lot of Olym-pians, you know Olympic hopefuls, going so it is deﬁ  nitely going to be a very strong competition for me … I just want to come out and not allow some people that might be really re-ally good to discourage me.”
Florida coach Mike Holloway, 
who has been involved with the Pepsi Florida Relays since he be-came an assistant coach for the men’s team in 1996, is looking for-ward to seeing many of his former athletes.
“It is always a pleasure to see 
them, whether I see them here or at other meets. Once a Gator, always a Gator,” Holloway said. “We are a family. We take pride in the fact that there is a number of great ath-letes at the world stage that repre-sent the University of Florida.”
Competition at the Pepsi Relays 
begins Thursday at 2 p.m. with the running events and continues at 5 p.m. with the ﬁ  eld events.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida looking 
forward to senior day