We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 63 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
Florida basketball earns 
third-straight win
The Gators defeated 
St. Bonaventure 73-66, pg. 21
HE CAUSED ROUGHL Y 
$800 WORTH OF 
DAMAGE.
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Florida kicker Eddy Pineiro could 
face two misdemeanor charges after 
police said he caused about $800 worth of damages to two scooters, according to a sworn complaint ﬁ  led 
Nov. 7. 
The potential charges, as of press 
time, have not affected his status 
for UF’s game against  LSU Satur-day, University Athletic Association spokesman Steve McClain said. 
At about 2 p.m. on Nov. 7, wit-
nesses told University Police they saw Pineiro push over two scoot-
ers parked next to his scooter at the 
East-West scooter parking lot near Murphree Area. He then kicked them and ripped off the side mirrors, according to a police report. 
Pineiro then got on his scooter 
and drove away, according to the 
report, and UPD later contacted him. 
Pineiro later told 
police he pushed over the two scooters. 
UPD Sgt. Jeff 
Lamb said in-formation about the incident has 
been sent to the 
state attorney’s 
ofﬁ  ce. No arrest has been made, but Pineiro could face a misdemeanor charge for each damaged scooter. 
Briana Hazel, a 19-year-old UF 
marine science sophomore, saw a male student with short brown hair on her way to get her scooter, which 
was parked in the same lot. She said 
after he noticed a broken mirror on his own scooter, he became angry and pushed the two nearby scooters. 
“I didn’t want to intervene in 
the middle of his anger outburst, because I don’t know this person,” 
Hazel said. 
She said she did not recognize the 
student, but wrote down the license 
plate numbers for his scooter and the two damaged scooters before return-ing home and calling police. 
Pineiro is charged with a ﬁ  rst de-
gree misdemeanor of criminal mis-chief for property damage between 
$200 and $1,000 and a second de-
gree misdemeanor of criminal mis-chief for property damage less than $200.
In his ﬁ  rst year at UF, Pineiro, a 
redshirt sophomore, has made 13 of his 17 ﬁ  eld-goal attempts and ranks sixth in the Southeastern Conference in ﬁ  eld-goal percentage at 76.5. He 
has started every game this season.
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgUF kicker could face misdemeanor charges
TWO ADVISERS WERE 
ADDED THIS SEMESTER.
 
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Khetpapol Limphoka, 22, waited 
two hours to see an academic ad-
viser for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences last week. “It’s not surprising,” the UF bi-
ology senior said. “I know that it’s 
going to take that long.” 
Joseph Spillane, the director of 
the college’s academic advising cen-
ter, said wait times to see advisers in the College of Liberal Arts and Sci-ences have decreased this semester after two advisers were added this Fall. After renovations for the Otis 
P. Hawkins Center are complete 
in December, current advisers will have more space and others could be added, he said.  
“We won’t have to have advis-
ers double up and share space,” he said. 
Fifteen academic advisers, one 
career adviser and three graduate student assistants are available for the about 11,000 students in the col-lege, including those in UF online, 
according to the college’s advising 
website, which averages to more than 700 students per adviser. At the Hawkins Center, nine advisers 
see 525 student athletes. 
During drop/add week and ad-
vanced registration, average wait 
times have been between 20 and 30 minutes. Last year, times averaged about 30 minutes, he said. 
But students like Limphoka 
haven’t experienced shorter times. 
Last year, he said he waited 45 min-
utes for a walk-in appointment. He said this year, he was able to 
use an online check-in to see where he was in line while waiting. But be-cause the new waiting rooms aren’t open yet, he had to wait outside. 
“Their system is not that good 
now,” he said. “It’s still a long time.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  
 College of Liberal Arts and Sciences brings additional advisers for FallEmma Green / Alligator Staff 
Novelist Hugh Suggs, the author of “Stepping on Cracks, ” holds signs 
denouncing President-elect Donald Trump on the intersection of University Avenue and Main Street on Thursday. Suggs, 57, said he worries about Republicans in Congress cutting funding for disability and Social Security programs, and he is angry “that a madman now is in control of our country... that we are not just in trouble anymore; we are in peril. ”
Pineiro
By Paige Fry,                  
Katelyn Newberg                
and Carly Breitbart
Alligator Writers 
Jeremiah Tattersall pointed to 
Gainesville’s anti-discrimination 
plaque inside City Hall on Thursday.
“It’s beautiful,” he said.The Gainesville resident had just 
described instances of “hate crimes and hate speech” happening in the city to Mayor Lauren Poe and the City Commission during the public comment portion of its meeting.
As dozens of others gathered on 
street corners across the city to pro-test President-elect Donald Trump, Tattersall spoke calmly into a mi-
crophone and described a second- grader in the city who refused to let 
a Hispanic classmate into his group, claiming “Trump is going to deport him.”
He also told them about his friend 
who received so many death threats she had to give her phone over to Gainesville Police.
“That’s what’s going on in this 
community right now,” he said.
Blocks from City Hall, at the in-
tersection of West University Avenue and South Main Street, cars honked in approval at a group of about 20 protesters waving anti-Trump signs and gay-pride ﬂ  ags.
The protest was one of six orga-
nized Thursday by the Gainesville 
City of Resistance, a Facebook group 
created after the election to resist the real estate mogul’s past remarks and proposed policies. On Saturday, the group plans to march “against fear” from the Stephen C. O’Connell Cen-ter to Bo Diddley Community Plaza.
Bruce Frendahl, a Gainesville 
resident participating in the protest, said if Trump follows through with his plan to deport millions of un-documented immigrants, he’s going to protest on the steps of the White House.
“I’m a little upset with the elec-
tion,” the 63-year-old said.
Emily Ott, a 31-year-old 
Gainesville resident, joined him, con-demning Trump’s proposal to create a registry system for Muslims in the country.
Locals  hold multiple anti-Trump protests
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 8Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  80° LOW  51°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Big Heart Gators and Katie Caples 
Foundation work to save lives
The Katie Caples Foundation is 
partnering with UF’s Big Heart Gators for an organ, tissue and eye donor registration drive to-
day on campus. Big Heart Gators 
and KCF are working closely 
with Donate Life Florida repre-sentatives, who will be providing 
practical training and education 
to Big Heart Gators. In addition to registering new organ donors, student volunteers will answer questions about organ donation to inform, educate and dispel the myths associated with donation and transplantation. One organ donor can save eight lives with solid organ transplants and en-hance the lives of up to 50 more with soft-tissue donation. With a campus population of more than 90,000, Big Heart Gators is hop-ing to register 500 new organ do-nors. For more information, find Big Heart Gators at facebook.com/BigHeartGators or visit the KCF website at katiecaples.org. To learn more about organ dona-tion and to register online, please visit donatelifeflorida.org.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
VigilThe Fourth Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be held Saturday at the Survivors of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 p.m., with a cer-emony beginning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the community, and refresh-ments will be provided. The vigil will be sponsored by the Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, please contact Donna Eckel at raggedyds@aol.com.Entries for science photo contest 
due Dec. 20The Elegance of Science art com-
petition is now accepting entries 
and is open to UF students, fac-
ulty and staff. Submit your 2-D 
research images or photos that incorporate scientific tools or 
concepts for a chance to win 
cash prizes. The contest is orga-
nized by the Florida Museum of 
Natural History and the Marston Science Library. Submissions are 
due Sunday. For contest rules 
or to view past winners, visit 
flmnh.ufl.edu/eos or call 352-273-2013.
APIACare (Mental Health): final 
exam care packageMental health is an issue that affects everyone. This finals season, Asian Pacific Islander 
American Affairs would like to 
encourage everyone to priori-
tize mental health by providing students with care packages that include items such as cof-fee, medicine, hygiene products and more in order to promote successful and healthy study-ing during finals. If you’re a pet owner, APIA has created a Paws and Claws care package filled with toys, treats and resources you can share with your pets. Also, APIA has a care package made for children, because the organization acknowledges that some UF students and faculty have young children at home, so balancing family, work and school may be tough. Be sure to take care of yourselves and the ones you love: your peers, pets and children.
GatorNights: Fort GatorNights
“Ten-hut!” GatorNights is drill-ing you and your platoon at a boot camp-themed night Friday. This night’s event is in-spired by this year’s Common Reading Program book, “A Higher Standard,” written by Ann Dunwoody. Come sip a good cup of coffee and write let-ters to troops in the global cof-fee house. Physical training is a 
must for any cadet, so work up 
a sweat at the ranger rock climb 
wall and cadet training obstacle 
course. Enter the sergeant-level scavenger hunt. You can make 
your own sweatbands and mili-
tary dog tags, and snap a picture 
with Alberta. You’ll even have 
a chance to decode a message given in Morse code. Enjoy the 
8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of 
this week’s movie, “The Purge: 
Election Year.” Show some sup-port as the Caribbean Students Association hosts its Mr. and 
Miss CaribSA pageant from 8 
p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Grand Ballroom. Midnight Munchies will feature nachos and tacos this week in the Reitz 
Union food court from mid-
night to 1:30 a.m. GatorNights 
is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Card at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate and are al-lowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 63
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
While many students, professors 
and residents go home to a turkey 
dinner next week, others won’t be as lucky.
In the weeks leading up to 
Thanksgiving, food banks, churches and even UF athletes have come to-gether to donate food to families and help them celebrate the holiday.
At the Bread of the Mighty Food 
Bank on Wednesday, shopping carts full of green beans, sweet potatoes and pie crusts stretched from the weigh station around the corner and 
out the door.
Sandra Graham wore a pink 
shirt, and her chair swiveled back 
and forth as she ﬁ  lled out paper-work and helped customer after cus-tomer weigh their food.
For the past four years, she has 
worked as an agency specialist at the food bank, located at 325 NW 
10th Ave., and she said it’s the best 
job she has ever had.
“Oh, I absolutely love it,” Gra-
ham said. “It’s wonderful being here.”
Five days a week, she is the ﬁ  rst 
face to greet the shoppers from dif-ferent agencies — registered orga-nizations who buy food to give to 
the community. During the holi-
days, the food bank helps agencies orchestrate various food drives and events to help the hungry through-out Gainesville.
“You get to know them each like 
family,” she said. “Some come so much that I know who they are and start their papers before they even 
pick up a cart.”
She said during the holidays  
there is a spike in both donations 
and shoppers. On a normal week, the food bank usually sees about six donations. November through Janu-ary, that number jumps to around a dozen.“People know there’s a need so 
people feel like giving,” Graham said, swiveling again to ﬁ  le her ﬁ  fth 
form in ten minutes. 
•   •   •
Jane Dickerson has a bad wrist, 
but that doesn’t stop her from heav-
ing a 20-pound box of Thanksgiving food onto the scale.
She is the head of the food min-
istry and the pantry at her church, Landmark Holy Temple of God, lo-cated at 1220 NE 23rd Ave. When she thinks about the holiday season, she thinks about the less fortunate.
“My uncle started the church 
years ago,” she said. “I think about him and I think about my dad, and how when I was a little girl he al-
ways kept our door open for people in need. I’m trying to carry on the 
tradition.”
She comes to the food bank at 
least once a week throughout the year, but she said she expects to be there quite a bit this holiday season. She gets food when people tell the church they need it — no questions asked.
She said food is the best way to 
minister to people, no matter who they are.
“It is not my job or my duty to 
question people who say they are hungry,” she said. “All they have to do is call.”
Her pantry gives out baskets 
to families for Thanksgiving. On Wednesday, Dickerson said the pan-try had given out 31 so far, and she expects to give around 50 by Thurs-day.
In the baskets, the church of-
fers a feast: green beans, potatoes, 
corn, peaches, pears, macaroni and 
cheese, cornbread, dressing, gravy — and the all-important turkey.
“If they don’t like turkey, we’ll 
give them two chickens,” she said. “It’s a lot of food, but I wanted to give them Thanksgiving dinner and then some.”
•   •   •
On Monday, the University Ath-
letic Association ﬁ  lled 1,200 Winn-Dixie bags full of Thanksgiving food — enough to feed 600 local families. 
Denver Parler, the associate di-
rector of communication for men’s basketball, said the annual event 
has happened around Thanksgiving for about 10 years.
More than 50 athletes from nine 
different UF sports teams bagged the 
food for homeless families and those with children.
“For the homeless families, we 
focused on nonperishable items,” Parler said. “For the families in need but with a roof over their head, we were able to provide Thanksgiving 
items.”
The UAA works with Grace Mar-
ketplace and Catholic Charities to 
ﬁ  nd the homeless and families in need. Monday the bags were ﬁ  lled and Pepsi helped transport the 1,200 bags to be distributed by the two or-ganizations.
“It’s important for our athletic 
department — and especially for our student athletes — to be able to give back to the local community here,” he said. “Even more so during this time of year.”
•   •   •
Wednesday, 37-year-old Keith 
Thomas sat with his dog, Georgia, in downtown Gainesville. He held a sign that read “God bless, prayers help.”
He said he’s lived in Gainesville 
for 20 years and hopes to spend the holiday with his dog, his girlfriend and her family in Bell, Florida.
“I haven’t done too much for the 
holidays since my grandma died,” he said. “She’s the reason I came down here in the ﬁ  rst place.”
The rest of his family lives up 
north, and he said he hopes to join them in January for New Year’s. 
But he’s taking it one day at a 
time.
“I was in prison the last three 
years, and I recently lost my job, so my girl and I are on the street for now,” he said. “Hopefully in the new year I can go back up North and see my mom.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Courtesy of Royce Abela / Restless Heart Communications
The University Athletic Association works with Grace Marketplace and Catholic Charities to ﬁ  nd the 
homeless and families in need. On Monday, UF athletes ﬁ  lled 1,200 Winn-Dixie bags with Thanksgiving food — enough to feed 600 local families.
 Giving thanks and giving back: Locals come together for Thanksgiving4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Five people were seriously injured in a flaming 
crash Thursday morning after a 16-year-old 
crashed his car into a tree in the Robinson Heights 
neighborhood, Florida Highway Patrol said.
At about 5:30 a.m., the boy drove his Toyota 
Camry into the tree in the 3600 block of Southeast 
15th Street, according to an FHP report. None of the 
people in the car were wearing seatbelts.
The driver and one passenger, 21-year-old 
Christopher Morten, suffered critical injuries. Three 
other boys in the car, a 16-year-old and two 17-year-olds, had serious injuries, according to the report.
When first responders arrived, they worried the 
passengers would be trapped inside the car, but they found them on the ground beside the mangled, flaming car, said Gainesville Fire Rescue Operations 
Chief Michael Cowart.The accident is being investigated to determine 
why the driver hit the tree, Cowart said. He said the boy was likely driving at a high rate of speed before 
crashing.
They were taken to UF Health Shands Hospital, 
according to the report.
Between Oct. 15 and Nov. 15, GFR responded to 
13 crashes where people were trapped inside their car, twice the number of crashes that happened during the same time last year, Cowart said.
Cowart said motorists and passengers should 
take safety precautions when on the road, including putting down electronic devices when driving and following speed limits.
“We’re urging people to slow down because that’s 
what’s going to prevent the significant injuries,” he said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgFHP: Four local teens seriously injured in flaming crash
They weren’t wearing seatbelts.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Five people, including four teenagers, were seriously injured on 
Thursday morning in a crash, Florida Highway Patrol said. None of them were wearing seatbelts when the driver, a 16-year-old Gainesville resident, crashed into a tree in the Robinson Heights neighborhood.
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Jimmy Ritten, a 42-year-old U.S. Navy veteran, poses with his service dog, Cody, after the pit bull’s graduation from Phoenix Animal Rescue’s veteran service dog program. 
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Jimmy Ritten met his ser-
vice dog Cody six months ago, his 
memory of war seemed to fade away.
In its place were slobbery kisses 
and marshmallow-soft fur.
“He’s brought our family back 
together,” said the 42-year-old U.S. Navy veteran, who suffers from anxiety and post-traumatic stress dis-order. “All of our focus isn’t on the problems — it’s on him.”
After encountering two-year 
waits for a service dog elsewhere, he turned to Phoenix Animal Rescue, a 
Gainesville-based animal shelter lo-
cated at 14250 W. Newberry Road. Inspired in part by Ritten’s story, the shelter announced Tuesday it would close down and begin solely serving military veterans in January as a part of its Pets and Patriots Foundation.
It will not charge the veterans for 
the dogs or their training, said Mi-
chelle Dunlap, the executive director 
of the shelter.
Dunlap said Ritten’s call made 
her realize there was a need for the organization to switch its focus.
“He tells me, ‘This dog saved my life,’” she said. “There’s so many veterans that need these dogs.”
After spending nine months in 
Kuwait, Ritten met a fellow veteran with a service dog and admired the companionship the dog gave him. In 2013, he began his search around the city but found many shelters had ex-tended waiting periods for adoption.
But he couldn’t wait. Then he 
met Dunlap — and Cody. Six months later, in October, the pit bull gradu-
ated from Phoenix’s academy, later 
posing for a photo in a tasseled cap.
Since then, Ritten said, Cody has 
helped ease his anxiety and gave him the confidence to leave his house alone.
“He looks tough, but he’s like a 
big marshmallow,” he said.
When Dunlap first started her 
shelter in 2003, she wanted to res-cue pit bulls, inspired by one named Phoenix, who was stolen and trained to fight before eventually reuniting with her family. Many of the shel-ter’s dogs are pit bulls.
When looking for prospective 
service dogs, Dunlap said she often looks for dogs who are calm, agree-
able and eager to learn. Phoenix gets 
its dogs from county and city shel-ters, among others.
Dunlap also has a service dog, 
Amber, who she originally fostered 
through her shelter. When she thinks 
of the pit bull, she’s reminded of the companionship Amber has given her to deal with anxiety, and how that can be spread to others.
“It’s almost like she reads my 
mind sometimes,” Dunlap said. “That’s the feedback we get from our veterans. Before they realize they 
have an issue, their dog is already 
aware.”
So far, the shelter has paired three 
service dogs with veterans and an-other with a woman who has a dis-ability.
Last year, Gouri Romero, a Santa 
Fe College nursing student, found her dog at Phoenix.
The 23-year-old said she chose 
the shelter because of how helpful the  staff was to her as she fostered and later adopted the pit bull, which she named Koko.
For Romero, the shelter’s new 
program is bittersweet.
“It’s definitely sad because it’s 
another family,” she said, “but I’m 
proud of the next step they’re going 
to take to help the veterans.”Gainesville animal shelter to 
close to serve veterans
By Catherine Dickson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
For the second year in a row, UF 
was recognized for helping its mili-
tary students transition into civilian life. 
On Wednesday, Victory Media, a 
media company responsible for the G.I. Jobs, STEM Jobs and Military Spouse publications, recognized the university as a Military Friendly School, joining about 50 other Flori-da institutions. 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando said there are about 1,000 veteran and active duty students enrolled at 
UF. 
“We consider it an honor to sup-
port veterans and help them into 
the next chapter of their lives,” he 
said. 
Brett Surles, 26, said he can’t 
think of anything else the university 
can do to make campus more mili-
tary friendly. 
“I don’t know how we’re not 
the number one veteran-friendly campus in the nation,” the Marine 
Corps veteran said. The UF chemical engineering 
senior said he got involved with other military students on campus 
as soon as he became a student. He 
said he has made friends through 
the UF Collegiate Veterans Society, 
an organization that helps veterans 
adjust to being college students. 
Matt Golden, an active member 
of the Army National Guard, said 
becoming involved in the veterans 
society has been a good way to meet 
other students who he can relate to. 
“It’s not traditional college stu-
dents that are here,” the 24-year old UF applied physiology and kinesiol-
ogy junior said. 
He spent part of his Thursday 
afternoon at the center playing The 
Settlers of Catan, a trading and 
settlement board game, with Surles 
and his friend Bud Ware. Golden 
said he goes to the center to study, 
relax and play games with others.
“They really do welcome you in 
with open arms,” he said. 
Ware, a Marine Corps veteran, 
said he didn’t know how military-friendly UF was until he began tak-
ing classes. “When I was getting ready to 
come to school, I didn’t know any of this existed,” the 27-year-old UF 
Japanese junior said.
He said the veteran services on 
campus feel comfortable as a non-
traditional student. 
“The faculty is always asking us 
for feedback,” Ware said. “I can’t 
think of anything that needs to 
change, but if there were problems 
it would be fixed immediately.”
@ced_
cdickson@alligator.orgUF, other Florida schools recognized for being military friendly FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
About 20 people attend the beginning of the candle lighting held by the Student Government Health 
Affairs Cabinet to raise awareness for eating disorders on Thursday evening on the Plaza of the Americas.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Julia Branton wrote the word 
“balance” on a paper lantern on the 
Plaza of the Americas on Thursday 
night to symbolize her recovery from 
an eating disorder. 
Branton, a 20-year-old UF applied 
physiology and kinesiology junior, helped organize the Student Govern-
ment Health Affairs Cabinet’s Light 
the Night event, a ceremony that ed-ucated students about eating disor-ders. About 40 students drank coffee 
as they visited on-campus organiza-
tions’ booths and listened to mental health care professionals. 
Kelly Ulmer, a registered mental 
health counseling intern with the 
UF Health Eating Disorder Clinic, 
told students eating disorders affect people of different gender expres-sions, sexual orientations, races and 
ethnicities. “Tonight I want to highlight the 
fact that eating disorders are neither 
clean nor clear cut,” she said. 
Ulmer said 20 million women 
and 10 million men in the U.S. suf-
fer from eating disorders. Rates have 
increased since the 1950s. 
“Recovery is possible, though,” 
she said. “It’s hard, it’s long and 
it’s daunting. But it’s possible. I’m among the living proof.” 
Branton told the audience about 
how a bad break-up drove her into an obsession with healthy eat-ing during her senior year of high 
school, which worsened when she 
came to UF. 
When she began canceling plans 
with friends to work out and stopped eating her favorite foods, she con-
vinced herself she was ﬁ  ne. She lost 
20 pounds in two months.
When she returned home to 
Pennsylvania on break, she didn’t 
believe her friends and family when they said she had an eating disorder. Branton thought because she wasn’t 
throwing up or binge eating, she 
couldn’t be suffering from an eating 
disorder, she said
“I thought I looked great because 
I had this very skewed image of what I looked like,” Branton said. “I would see the number on the scale drop, and I would be like, ‘Awesome Julia, this is great, let’s keep going.’” 
For Branton, the word “balance” 
represents how she now lives her life.
“Everyone knows part of college 
is ﬁ  guring out a balance,” she said, “but a lot of an eating disorder is ﬁ  nding the balance between eating healthy and eating a cookie or allow-ing yourself to eat what you actually 
like.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  SG promotes discussion of eating 
disorders during candle lighting event
By Mercedes Leguizamon 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A new honor society on campus 
is looking to increase diversity in 
UF’s graduate programs.
UF became the 13th school to 
join the Edward A. Bouchet Gradu-
ate Honor Society, which encour-
ages diversity in graduate student education. The ﬁ  rst members will be inducted in April, said Tyisha Hathorn, the director of UF’s gradu-ate minority programs.
The honor society was founded 
by Howard University and Yale University in 2005, she said. Juan 
E. Gilbert, UF’s Banks Preeminence 
chair in engineering, wanted to bring the program to UF after hear-ing about it from the dean of How-ard University. The program seeks to connect 
minority graduate students with 
others across the country, she said. 
Because different students are a mi-nority in different ﬁ  elds, this could include women in engineering, men in nursing, African Americans, His-panics and Asian Americans. 
UF has 16 colleges, with 290 
graduate programs and about 16,000 graduate students, Hathorn 
said. Because of this, diversity is im-
portant among faculty and students.
“In the classrooms, if we have all 
male professors, females won’t see themselves in that role,” Hathorn said.
Caitlin Banks, a 24-year-old UF 
rehabilitation science graduate stu-dent, said she is considering apply-
ing for the diversity honor society.  
Because many of her classes are 
small, Banks, who is half-black, said it’s difﬁ  cult to see many minor-
ity students in them. 
In UF’s graduate programs, new 
students are paired with mentors, who are matched with each other based on their area of research and background, Hathorn said. For Banks, her mentor is also fe-male and a physical therapist in Gainesville.
But Banks said while she be-
lieves that while diversity is impor-tant, UF shouldn’t admit graduate students only to encourage it and should promote it through honor societies, such as the Edward A. Bouchet Graduate Honor Society . 
“I think any university can do 
more to encourage diversity in grad-uate programs, but it’s much more 
complicated than doing so in an un-
dergraduate program,” Banks said.  New UF graduate honor society 
hopes to encourage diversityThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORIt’s a quiet November afternoon. The air is crisp, the sun 
is going down and you’re sitting on your porch drinking some 
iced tea while reading the Alligator. You’re about to ﬂ  ip the 
page and make it to the Opinions Section when Lassie, the 
neighbor’s son’s dog, comes running up and starts barking at you. “What’s that, Lassie?” you ask while standing up, clutch-ing the paper. Lassie continues to bark. “Timmy fell down the 
well?!” you exclaim. “That’s the third time this month, right?” 
Lassie barks quickly, conﬁ  rming your suspicion of Timmy’s predictable recklessness. Hurriedly, you run over to the well, paper in hand. “Help, Mister! I can’t swim!” You hear him gur-gle while he splashes about within a manageable arm’s reach. 
“Yeah, sucks to suck, Timmy. I’m about to hit page six of The 
Alligator, and not even your bloodcurdling cries for help can stop me from reading my favorite Alligator feature…
Darts and Laurels.”
Another week comes to a close here in Gainesville, dear 
reader. A lot has gone on this week, too. Remember Dr. Ben Carson? Apparently Carson turned down a job offer as sec-
retary of Health and Human Services in Donald Trump’s ad-
ministration. Why? According to Carson’s business manager and close friend Armstrong Williams, “Dr. Carson feels he has no government experience.” We can’t help but remember 
that time several months ago when Carson actually ran for 
president against Trump. Seriously, Carson, what happened in the last few months that made you ﬁ  nally realize being a neurosurgeon in no way qualiﬁ  es you to hold public ofﬁ  ce? We give a laurel to you, Dr. Carson, for ﬁ  nally coming to 
your senses.
Staying in the realm of politics, we’re sure you’ve all heard 
by now how Trump’s administration is planning on creating a 
Muslim registry. In terms of legally instituting this, Carl Higbie 
went on Fox News and said the Japanese internment camps 
set a “precedent” for such a policy. We give a dart to Carl Higbie for his bad logic (internment camps are not reg-
istries, try again) and desire to oppress Americans and their family members.
Closer to home, our Alligator cartoonist Michael Smith il-
lustrated a cartoon with a catch earlier this week. In the comic, one of the characters mentions that if a special symbol appears in a panel, the owner of said paper (in Willy Wonka fashion) 
will win a prize. The joke was that every single copy of the 
paper had this special symbol in it. We give a dart to Michael for deceiving our readership, a laurel to those of you not 
gullible enough to fall for it and a hug to the staff members who were forced to take the calls of readers thinking they 
had won something.
Recently, the Alligator newsroom got into a pretty dicey de-
bate over our lovable furry friends. A schism has been formed among our staff, separating the dog people from the cat peo-
ple. After much deliberation, this Editorial Board has decided 
to give a laurel to dogs for providing unconditional love. In terms of cats, we really don’t believe they’re actually do-mesticated animals. Humankind let them hang around as we evolved because they kill smaller and more annoying animals. 
So, we lob a dart at cats, because we know they would ac-
tually kill us if they were capable of it.
Given this is our last Darts and Laurels before Thanksgiv-
ing, we feel it necessary to acknowledge the sometimes stress-
ful family gatherings many of us are soon going to have to 
participate in. We give a dart to all those family members who ask us what we’re planning to do after college, and a laurel to that cool uncle for taking us away from the fam-
ily for a few minutes to go smoke a joint in the garage.
On the true Democratic powers of liberal media
Ever since the advent of national news 
outlets in America, the country’s mass media has almost universally been more liberal. Those who are more Re-publican have accepted this as fact, 
using this as a go-to line whenever debating someone of the opposite party. This election season, however, has revealed the true se-verity of the media’s political leaning, and Republicans have ﬁ  nally, after decades of tolerating this as an unwavering feature of the culture, begun to say “no more.”
All it took for Republicans to build up the courage to 
ﬁ  ght the media monsters was the most absurd, outland-
ish, outspoken, yet fascinating candidate in U.S. his-
tory: Donald Trump. 
Never before had a candidate verbally attacked the 
media as steadfastly as Trump. Every rally and inter-view seemed to include a swift jab at The New York Times or Washington Post, and even the presidential debates included Trump calling out moderators for be-ing biased toward Democrats.
People called Trump and those who believed him 
crazy, and they had every reason to. The idea that a system as immense as the national media was actively trying to sway the country’s opinions and votes was ab-surd. But then again, so was the idea of Trump running for president of the U.S.
Once WikiLeaks started releasing batches of tens of 
thousands of emails, it was soon revealed that Trump was not, in fact, a crazy conspirator, but instead very right about the media teaming up with the Democratic 
Party. The evidence, much to the dismay of Democrats 
and pure joy of Republicans, was well documented and now public for the entire world to see.
The evidence included correspondence between 
CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer and the Democratic National Committee, with Blitzer asking the DNC for juicy ques-tions to shoot at Trump during an upcoming interview. Other emails showed “neutral” moderators tipping off Clinton’s campaign to upcoming debate questions. Many have been aware of the love affair between the mainstream media and Democratic Party for years, but nobody, not even The Donald himself, could have antici-
pated such blatant bias.
It’s one thing for Rolling Stone to publish 
articles titled “Donald Trump Cannot Be Pres-
ident of the United States” or for Buzzfeed to only post negative articles pertaining to Trump and not Clinton, but for massive news 
outlets, such as CNN and NBC, who have the gall to claim impartiality to engage in such partisan behavior , it is simply wrong. There is no way around it.
The major takeaway from this election is that the 
country portrayed by the mainstream media (and even some vocal celebrities) is not, in fact, reality. The media is capable of deplorable bias but not capable of manipu-lating politics in its favor. In the end, it is the American people who get the ﬁ  nal say, and, well, it appears the media isn’t fooling anyone.
Whether your candidate won or lost, I do think some 
good came from this election. Finally, the idea of full 
transparency is at the forefront of America’s attention. 
Transparency of both the government and national me-dia is no longer only a concern for Americans but now an expectation. Now that this corruption has been ex-posed, it is our duty as Americans to keep those who claim to be working for us in check, to make sure the system never sinks back into such fraudulence.
The election may ﬁ  nally be over, but it cannot be said 
that no good came of it. The U.S. is still suffering from 
severe growing pains, stuck somewhere in the awkward 
adolescent years of this country’s development. That being said, the recent revelations concerning media and government transparency cannot be overstated, as they are paving the way for a more honest and candid coun-try, which ultimately beneﬁ  ts us all.
Andrew Hall is a UF management junior. His col-
umn appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
I feel like, on a national level, a lot of us 
have been moving through the stages of grief during this past week and a half. It 
started with us being in absolute denial 
that a candidate who many of us saw to 
be unﬁ  t had been elected. Once the initial shock subsided we were angry, outraged at 
the hateful reactions of extreme supporters. 
Some of us tried bargaining with the Elec-toral College as a last resort, with the hopes that maybe, just this one time, history could be rewritten and things would work out in 
our favor. When we realized that wasn’t 
possible, you could say a depression hit. It has taken a while to start moving on, but a lot of us are starting to accept the things we 
cannot change.
For those of us who will not accept what 
we cannot change, myself included, please 
know there are still ways to have your voice heard. There are thousands of people who 
have the same beliefs and convictions as you. We’re banding together to 
make sure everyone knows we are still here, and we’re not go-
ing anywhere. People have been 
marching for immigrants’, wom-en’s, human and civil rights. We march and peacefully protest in 
opposition to environmentally 
damaging projects; against poli-cies that are inhumane. We do this in solidarity, so we can help amplify the voices of those who may not be 
able to speak for themselves.
Maybe I’ve just been listening to the 
“Hamilton” soundtrack too much, but I 
can feel the revolution gaining momentum. 
I’ve seen people who have generally stayed 
quiet about their beliefs start to speak out against injustice. I’ve seen bonds form be-tween complete strangers after they stand together for what they see is right. If you’re 
interested but don’t know how to get in-volved, scrolling through social 
media sites might be your best bet. Hardly a day has passed 
where I haven’t seen someone 
post a petition to sign or talk about events or meetings they’re going to attend. Go to a petition 
page and see how many people 
are ﬁ  ghting for the same thing you’re passionate about. Talk to your friends about the things 
they’re passionate about and see where you 
match up. If you’re here in Gainesville and 
are looking for a place to start, you’re in luck. There will be a peaceful march Satur-day, and we will meet on campus at 4 p.m. 
at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. We will 
then march together to Bo Diddley Commu-nity Plaza. For more information, you can search for “Freedom from Fear March” on Facebook.
My mom has told me a million times, “The squeaky wheel gets the grease,” meaning the louder and more vocal you are, the more likely you’ll get the attention you 
need. In this sense, it would probably ben-
eﬁ  t us all to be squeaky wheels, especially since the First Amendment of the U.S. Con-stitution gives us as American citizens the 
right to free speech and the right to peaceful 
protest. The best, most beneﬁ  cial thing all of us can do for our nation as ordinary citi-zens is know our rights and exercise them accordingly, so all sides will be heard.
At the end of the day, we’re in this for 
the future. Our progress will far outlive us, and I think that is the best we could hope for in terms of being able to make a change 
for the better. I think Lin Manuel Miranda 
got it right with these lyrics, “We may not live to see our glory, but I will gladly join the ﬁ  ght.” Let’s get out there.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science 
senior. Her columns appear on Fridays.
Election Day came as a shock for many of us, and very few succeeded in predicting the outcome — not the 
academics, intellectuals or media, 
and certainly not the Hillary Clinton 
campaign.
From our cozy college bubbles, it is of-
ten difﬁ  cult to see past Donald Trump’s outrageousness and understand the legiti-mate underlying grievances of the working class that led to his election. That Tuesday night showed us exactly just how divided 
America is, and how badly almost every-
body failed to predict the results.
The media failed us in many ways 
throughout this election. Not only were 
the polls grossly skewed in Clinton’s fa-
vor, but they failed to put a human face on Trump’s supporters. Instead, they brushed them off as angry white men, racists and deplorables. Those who supported Trump 
were shamed into a corner, afraid to identi-
fy themselves as Trump voters, and it was perhaps this shame that caused the stark underrepresentation of the Trump vote in the polls. This 
only gave the Clinton camp over-
conﬁ  dence as the Trump base continued to build itself up.
As easy as it is to dismiss 
Trump supporters with blanket generalizations, there is a sig-niﬁ  cant base of blue-collar voters and others who have felt ignored by the political class, and who 
feel as if their country has been seized by 
a few powerful and privileged people who have brushed aside their social and eco-nomic grievances. Many who were tired of 
a culture of political correctness and cen-
sorship were energized by Trump’s break-ing and rewriting of those cultural rules. Of course, there were also those who were hurt by President Barack Obama’s Afford-
able Care Act, which raised the premi-
ums for the middle class astronomically. And there were those who were simply unhappy with President Obama and saw Clinton only as 
a third Obama presidency. It is 
this general feeling of discontent, however diverse in origin, that has attracted millions to Trump’s 
populist message and consolidat-
ed an unhappy populace under one umbrella. Trump managed to sell himself as the person giv-ing expression and unity to all 
these disparate and unrelated frustrations, and this was the greatest political accom-plishment of President-elect Trump.
Clinton and her associates failed to un-
derstand or connect to this massive base of disillusioned voters, the “forgotten men.” Instead, she went after Trump’s character, denouncing his racism and sexual harass-ment allegations, mistakenly believing that 
a teary speech by Alicia Machado, a former 
Miss Universe with a dubious past, was likely to convince a middle-class American to vote for Clinton. What her campaign failed to realize is that these ad hominem 
attacks were not likely to sway a Trump 
voter in her direction; she was simply preaching to her own choir.
However, it is important that Americans 
come together and respect the will of the rightfully elected president and members of Congress, as well as those who voted for them. It is time for reconciliation af-ter this ugly and divisive election and for 
both parties, as well as the media, to learn 
from their mistakes. It is not the time for those who voted for Trump to gloat, and it is certainly not the time to shame those 
who voted for him. Instead, we must re-
main empathetic to our fellow Americans, faithful in our democracy and optimistic in the future of America.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political sci-
ence and telecommunication senior. His column appears on Fridays.Election Day is over, but the ﬁ  ght goes on: Don't give up on America's progress
We should learn from mistakes and move forward in Trump’s AmericaColumn
Column
Alexa Deloera
opinions@alligator.org
Julian
Fleischman
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
“My heritage is Jewish,” she said, 
“and I haven’t forgotten the Holo-
caust.”
While protesters waved signs, 
one reading “Trump is not my presi-dent,” a man in a truck drove by 
with a large confederate flag waving 
behind.
“Go Trump!,” he shouted before 
driving past.
At the intersection of West Uni-
versity Avenue and Southwest 13th Street, about a dozen protesters were met with a similar reaction.
Less than an hour after the protest 
began, Tommy Grooms stood across the street from the protesters, wear-ing a blue shirt that read “Trump” — and holding a sign that said “You Lost / Go Home.” As he drove by earlier, he noticed the protesters, so he decided to buy a sign at Office Depot.
He said he campaigned and voted 
for Trump because of his stance on immigration and foreign policy, and that Trump’s rhetoric did not phase him.
“I just saw them protesting a to-
tally fair election,” he said.
On the corner of 34th Street and 
Archer Road, Gainesville resident Jessica Adams dressed as Rosie the Riveter and protested with her son.
“I think the electoral system was 
supposed to prevent people like Don-ald Trump from gaining the presi-dency,” the 34-year-old said. “This 
is a clear sign that the system is not 
functioning.”
Eight-year-old Jackson Adams 
jumped up and down as he held a sign reading “Save my Planet,” which he helped his mom decorate. He seemed relieved that he and his mom didn’t get any backlash.
“I was afraid someone would try 
to say nasty stuff or try to attack us,” he said
Gabriel Pelegrina arrived on Tur-
lington Plaza at 4 p.m., expecting to meet other anti-Trump protesters.
After waiting around for about 
half an hour, the 19-year-old noticed no one was coming, so he went to Marston Science Library to print out 
some signs and hold a one-man pro-
test.
The UF exploratory engineering 
freshman stood on a table holding a sign that read “Climate Change is Real.” He didn’t let the lack of sup-port stop him from protesting.
“It kinda hurts,” he said, “but it’s 
OK. Everyone needs to do something 
to stand up for what they believe in.”PROTEST,  from pg. 1‘It kinda hurts, but it’s OK.’
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
More than a dozen protesters stand on the corner of 13th Street and University with hand made signs 
to protest president-elect Donald Trump on Thursday evening.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Below the feet of 19-year-old Gabriel Pelegrina, two signs are taped to a table on the middle of Turlington Plaza on Thursday evening which read “Not My President” and “Love Trumps Hate. ” Pelegrina was one of the many protesters who spoke out around Gainesville on Thursday afternoon to voice their concerns about the new president-elect, Donald Trump. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
A crossed out painting of Donald Trump sits on the corner of University Avenue and Main Street during a protest for the results of the presidential election. The protest was one of six happening simultaneously on Thursday in Gainesville.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Anais Edwards, a 26-year-old inspection coordinator at an organic certifier, raises a rainbow flag and holds a sign reading “Not My President” on the intersection of University Avenue and Main Street on Thursday. “I am a queer, LatinX woman, ” she said, “and I am terrified of a future with Trump in it. ”
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Past protesters on the Southeast corner of Main Street and University Avenue, Joe Courter, the publisher of The Gainesville Iguana, and about 15 others express their discontent with the election results.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Breauna Jarrett, a 17-year-old Sante Fe freshman studying to be an ultrasound technician, holds a sign that reads “One Nation” on the corner of 13th Street and University Avenue on Thursday evening. Breauna said she was there to send the message that everyone is equal. 
Fal/l.end 2016
UF Housin/g.end Fair Toda/y.endStuden/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end 
2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
WHAT IS OFF CAMPUS LIFE?
UF’s Off Campus Life provides resources, services, education and support 
for the 40,000 students living off campus.  Off Campus Life aims to provide 
programs and services that will help prepare students to be a great Gator 
neighbors, here in Gainesville or wherever the road may take you. 
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus LifeOCL’S SUPPORT SERVICES AND RESOURCES INCLUDE:  
Located inside the Housing Office on the corner of SW 13th Street & Museum Road · 352-392-1207 · www.offcampus.ufl.edu
Off Campus Life, which is part 
of UF’s Division of Student Affairs, 
has been providing support services 
and resources to UF students living 
off campus since 2004.  
Free Online Housing Locator Service:  Students can 
search for off-campus housing, subleases and roommates 
through this free online site.  This site also allows students 
to post sublease listings. Go to http://housing.offcampus.
ufl.edu to use this resource.
Gator Guide to Off Campus Life:  A free publication 
that provides tips and resources for finding the right 
apartment, budgeting information, safety tips, tips to 
reduce your utility usage, a map of the city, and much 
more. To get a copy of the Gator Guide, visit the OCL 
office located inside the Housing Office on the corner of SW 13th Street & Museum Road, or visit the OCL website 
at www.offcampus.ufl.edu and click on the Gator Guide 
link. 
Individual Meetings:  Off Campus Life provides one 
on one meetings with students who are searching for 
off-campus housing. Meetings include information on 
the housing market, average costs, lease information, 
steps to follow to find off-campus housing, safety tips, 
transportation information, and the answers to your 
housing questions. To set up an appointment please 
complete the appointment request form available through 
the OCL website www.offcampus.ufl.edu/appointments/ 
or call (352)392-1207 to schedule a meeting with an OCL 
staff member.
Off Campus Ambassadors: OCL’s sponsored student 
organization works to connect off-campus students with 
UF and the Gainesville community. The OCA’s assist 
Off Campus Life with events, outreach efforts, and plan 
their own events including an annual Roommate Mixer and Puppy Palooza.  To learn more, visit the Off Campus 
Ambassador webpage at www.offcampus.ufl.edu/off_
campus_ambassadors/. 
Discover Gainesville:  This monthly event series 
allows students to attend fun activities in the Gainesville 
community, and OCL covers the cost. Upcoming Spring 
2016 Discover Gainesville events include hiking at Devil’s 
Millhopper (March 26th) and Free Ice Cream Scoop at 
Sweet Dreams (April 11th). To learn more about Discover 
Gainesville and to reserve a spot for one of OCL’s 
upcoming events visit the OCL website events page www.
offcampus.ufl.edu/events. 
Social Media:  Check OCL out on social media 
including Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and 
Pinterest @UFOffCampusLife.
STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Senior Moving
Residential Moving
Commercial Moving
Long Distance Moving
Loading and Unloading“With a Masters Degree in moving”Fla. Mover Reg. #2106 Licensed & InsuredSTUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
SHOULD YOU HAVE A ROOMMATE?
Having a roommate is a great way to divide the cost of living off campus, but if you 
don’t find the right person to live with, living off campus could be challenging.
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus Life• Utilize UF’s Off Campus Housing Locator Service at 
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu. 
• Know your budget and choose a property that allows 
you to live within your means.
• Choose a well-suited roommate or choose to live alone. 
Know what kind of person would best complement 
your personality and choose accordingly.
• Create a priority list. What do you care about most 
in a living space? Room size, rent, type of lease, 
type of community (large undergraduate population, 
graduate students, local residents, etc.), location, 
proximity to campus or bus route. Create a list of 
ideal characteristics you want in your future living 
space and keep these criteria in mind when selecting 
a location.• Drive around and visit the properties and 
neighborhoods where you are thinking about living.  
• Take a tour of the complexes or houses that interest 
you, ask questions and get to know the complex 
management or rental house landlord.
• Ask your friends for advice on where to live. Which 
properties worked well for them?  Which did not?
• Check the RTS bus routes www.go-rts.com to make 
sure routes work for your class schedule.
• Visit the Crime Reports website www.crimereports.
com to view, on a searchable map, crime statistics 
before signing a lease. 
• While taking a tour check for safety features 
including deadbolts and peepholes on entrance doors, windows that lock, exterior lighting and well 
maintained properties. 
• Also, go back to the property at night and check to 
see if the property is it well-lit, do you see the security 
guard that management promised, is the security 
gate working, is it quiet enough to study and sleep, 
and check the lighting at the bus stop or parking lot 
to the complex or house.
• Once you’ve narrowed down your search, make an 
appointment with UF’s Student Legal Services by 
going to their website www.studentlegalservices.ufl.
edu. SLS can help you in reviewing the lease BEFORE 
you sign it.
• Gainesville is a GREAT place to rent and live, have 
fun with your search!GETTING STARTED  Gainesville has an abundance of off-campus housing options, so take your time, 
and be sure to visit 5-6 properties in person before signing a lease.
• Start your roommate search with a friend 
or sibling. These are often good options 
for roommates since you already know 
them.
• Communication is key.  Talk about your 
budget for housing, expectations for 
safety, expectations for guests, and what 
your housing needs are before you even 
begin your search. Being on the same 
page as your roommate(s) will improve 
your roommate experience and reduce the 
possibility for conflict. 
• Before moving in, establish an agreement 
about who will get which bedroom and 
bathroom along with which cabinets/
storage space each person can use.
• Discuss how payment of rent and bills will take place. Is each person responsible 
for their own bills or will someone be in 
charge of collecting payment from each 
roommate?
• Don’t have someone you want to live 
with? Some apartment complexes offer 
“Roommate Matching” or “Roommate 
Placement.”
• Make sure you can change apartments if 
management places you with roommates 
you are not compatible with, be aware 
there is typically a fee if you need to move 
due to a roommate issue.
• Off Campus Life’s Housing Locator 
http://housing.offcampus.ufl.edu has a 
roommate finder feature where you can 
search for roommates.
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
Large Sparking Pool
Great Fitness Center4 Bus Routes to UFClubhouse with billiards, large screen TV and gaming consoleLighted basketball, racquetball, and tennis courts• Only $250 pet fee. No monthly pet rent!
• Sign within 48 hours to get $99 off!• Application Fee $40/person• Decoration Fee $300 WAIVED!
• High speed internet for only $16.25!$625*
$645*$800*$865*$965*6   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
now leasing fall 2017! • varsityhousegainesville.com 
352.376.5373 • 1720 sw 37th street, gainesville fl 32607only 1.2 miles
from uf campus!•	On	Bus	Route
•	Pet-Friendly
•	Pavilion
•	Bicycle	Storage
•	Elevators
•	Computer	Lab•	Tavern-Style	Game	Room
•	24-Hour	Fitness	Center
•	Indoor	Tanning
•	Clubhouse	&	Coffee 	Bistro
•	Outdoor	Fireplace
•	Sand	Volleyball	Courts•	Resort	Style	Pool
•	Controlled	Access 	Gate
•	Basketball	Court
•	Interior	Hallways
•	Parking	Garage
•	On-Site	Security	Officer
NOWLEASING2017!
rates are in
call today to reserve 
your spot! reserve your
parking spottoday!STUDENT LIVING GUIDE   •   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
TYPES OF LEASES
Make sure you read and fully understand all aspects of the lease 
before signing. A lease is a contract between you and your landlord 
or apartment complex management that outlines specific details 
of your living arrangement. Leases often involve policies about 
pets, security and pet deposits, subleasing, legal entry and other 
important information. Typically, leases in Gainesville are for 12 
months. If you need to rent for 10 months or less, talk with the 
management about whether they can provide a short-term lease. 
There are two types of leases that are usually 
available, Joint Leases and Individual Leases.
Joint Lease:  All roommates are held responsible for the lease. If one 
person breaks the lease, the other roommates are held responsible for 
paying the total rent. This tends to be the lease more prominent when 
renting a house or single family dwelling.
 
Individual Lease:  Each person is held responsible for his or her own 
actions. For instance, if one roommate breaks the lease, that person is still 
responsible for paying their own rent. For most college students, individual 
leases are the best choice. Each person in the lease is responsible for his 
or her own actions and not the actions of a roommate.  
Information printed with the permission of UF’s Off Campus Life• Dates of occupancy
• Monthly rent and the date 
it is due each month
• Application Fees, Security 
Deposit, Redecoration Fees, 
and any other fees charged• Responsibility for payment 
of utilities
• Responsibility for general 
maintenance and repairs
• Sublease: If you sign a 12 
month lease, but think you 
may need the dwelling for a shorter period of time, 
make sure the lease allows 
you to sublease (rent your 
dwelling to another person 
who will assume the 
remainder of your lease) 
• Pet policy
• Automatic renewal clause
• Type of leaseCLAUSES TO LOOK FOR IN A LEASE 
• The tenant may be asked to 
leave within three days
• Tenant waives all defects in 
the building
• Landlord shall not be 
responsible for injury to 
person, including tenant and guests, as a result of 
any cause
• Tenant is responsible for all 
repairs to premises 
• Landlord is allowed enter 
dwelling without notice• Landlord has a lien on all 
personal property of tenant
• For any questions on your 
lease, visit the Student 
Legal Services website 
www.studentlegalservices.
ufl.edu and set up an 
appointment with a lawyer 
to review the lease BEFORE 
you sign it. CLAUSES TO AVOID IN YOUR LEASE 
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   •   STUDENT LIVING GUIDE ADVERTISING SUPPLEMENT
Reitz Union Tabeling Spac e and  North Lawn
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
1/1 with W/D IN unit. 5-10 minutes to cam-
pus, on bus route. Corner unit with no one above you. Complex is gated at night and has a pool, gym, sauna, tanning bed, courts, and free printing. PETS ALLOWED! Cable and HBO included. $879/month. Contact Amanda 727-418-4337     11-18-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N       11-18-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos18   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647         11-18-1-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Did one part of a
typical triathlon
5 Overwhelm
10 Camera output
14 Tuscan
waterway
15 Smoothes16 1899 gold rush
town
17 It’s nothing to
Noelle
18 Pines, e.g.19 Wavy lines, in
comics
20 Start of a quip23 Stuff in a sack24 Dough shortage
consequence
27 “Chicago P.D.”
detectiveLindsay
29 Quip, part 234 Speaks36 Durango day37 Rotation meas.38 Quip, part 342 Pranks, in a way,
informally
43 Browser’s find44 Privileged groups45 Quip, part 449 Wrapped up50 See 52-Down51 Swiss waterway53 End of the quip60 Hook for landing
large fish
63 Wines named for
an Iberian city
64 Pivot around65 Plot measure66 Mexican
Academy of Filmaward
67 McCain’s alma
mater: Abbr.
68 Casino device69 Spider’s web,
e.g.
70 Jury member
DOWN
1 Asian garment2 Legal paper3 Once more4 Yosemite’s El
Capitan, e.g.
5 Scrape6 Affection7 Europe-bound,
perhaps
8 Athletic contest
9 “Hey, you!”
10 Common
nocturnaldisturbance
11 Wordless opinion12 Te-__: cigar
brand
13 __ stirpes: estate
law term
21 Good-sized
combo
22 First name in
childcare writing
25 How many learn26 High hat27 Rages28 Brawl in the sticks30 Former “Access
Hollywood”anchor Nancy
31 When repeated,
mutuallyadvantageous
32 Most liked,
casually
33 Versatility list34 Eye opener?35 Close39 NW Penn. airport40 Ecuadoran gold
region
41 Cheers
46 Tuition add-on47 Abbr. in some
Canadian placenames
48 LDS part52 With 50-Across,
flier’s option
54 Therapeutic
resorts55 Ambivalent56 One of a tenor’s
repertoire
57 Word suggesting
options
58 Ancient
character
59 Sentence
component
60 Yakking61 German gripe62 One way to sway
By Alan Olschwang
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/18/1611/18/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, November 18, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, Background 
Investigation Conducted Affirmative Action/ 
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call Misty @ the EDEP office 955-7766
11-18-16-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted20   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
STRIVE at GatorWell 
Grad student Lead Peer EducatorCampus violence prevention workAll identities welcomejobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 499420       11-18-16-
5-14
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
Social Media intern needed for local Advertising agency. Execute social media campaigns for agency and clients. Flexible hours (may work from home) and perks of-fered! I can be a great reference for the right person! Contact Shannon@mclainmedia.com or 352.871.1451.    11-18-16-1-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits     1-866-362-6497       11-18-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHER Get FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM  888-242-2649        11-18-1-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305      11-18-1-16HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Fire Your Boss Make job crushing income quickly and easily. http://instant10now.com/         11-22-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
15 Services 18 Personals 24 Pets 14 Help Wanted 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Antonio Callaway and the Florida football team are looking to avenge last year's loss to LSU.Read the story on pg. 24.Women's basketball team faces T emple this weekend
One year removed from a season-opening loss to the T emple Owls, the 
Gators will have a shot at redemption this Saturday when they take on T emple in Ocala. Read a game preview online at alligator.org/sportsBy Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With 15 seconds remaining in 
Florida’s battle with St. Bonaven-
ture, UF guard Chris Chiozza stole 
the ball from Bonnies guard Matt 
Mobley. 
Chiozza ﬂ  ipped the ball over 
his head down the court to a streaking Devin Robinson, who gathered the pass, lept into the air and delivered a ferocious slam dunk, ending the Bonnies’ come-
back bid.
The Gators (3-0) survived St. 
Bonaventure (1-1) on Thursday 
night in Lakeland, defeating the Bonnies 73-66 in an uncomfort-
ably close contest for Florida.
“We struggled for the most 
part offensively,” said UF coach 
Mike White, whose team com-mitted 17 turnovers and shot 
41.1-percent from the ﬁ  eld. “(St. 
Bonaventure) got their hands on so many basketballs.”
The ﬁ  rst half began slowly for 
the Gators when Robinson had the ball stolen from him by guard Jaylen Adams three seconds into the game.
Robinson made up for it, 
though, sparking an explosive run for Florida after the ﬁ  rst timeout with 15 minutes left in the half.
The 6-foot-8 forward drilled a 
three immediately out of the time-out and converted an and-one op-portunity moments later after he was fouled on a putback layup.
But St. Bonaventure didn’t 
back down.
With seven minutes left in the 
half, Adams, standing near mid court, ﬂ  ung the ball toward the 
basket as the shot clock expired and buried the shot to cut into Florida’s lead. Two free throws 
by Adams eventually shrunk the 
Gators’ lead to just a single point.
However, guard Kevaughn Al-
len, who struggled with his shot early on, found forward Justin 
Leon in the corner for a big three with three seconds left to put Flor-
ida up 38-32.
In the second half, Barry drilled 
three-straight threes to give UF a 15-point lead with 11 minutes left.
Then Mobley happened.The 6-foot-3 junior, who hit 
six threes and scored a game-high 28 points, led the Bonnies on a seven-minute, 15-2 stretch. And 
ﬁ  nally, with the Gators leading 
66-63 with under two minutes 
remaining, Mobley intercepted an errant pass from guard Kasey 
Hill, ﬂ  ew down the court and con-
verted an and-one layup to tie the game.
“Matt Mobley was absolutely 
incredible,” White said. “We knew it was going to be difﬁ  cult 
for him not to get 20 … but (he) 
was dynamite.”
It was all for nothing, however.
With 58 seconds left in the game, Barry, who scored 16 
points on 4-of-9 shooting, rock-
eted into the air to rip down a 
rebound and was fouled, sending 
the graduate transfer to the line for his ﬁ  rst pressure free throws 
of the season.
He drilled both to give Florida 
a two-point lead, and the Gators 
eked out the win.
“I know I’m a great free-throw 
shooter, and my teammates have conﬁ  dence in me,” Barry said. “I just try to knock them down.”
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 
UF  holds oﬀ   St. Bonaventure for third win
Florida committed 17 turnovers
The Associated Press
Chris Chiozza (11) dribbles up the court during Florida's win against Mercer on Sunday. Chiozza 
had a game-high-tying two steals in UF's win over St. Bonaventure on Thursday.
F    inally.
After a month of hostility, pas-
sive-aggressive banter between both school’s athletic directors and some chirping from Florida’s and 
LSU’s players, the Gators and the Tigers will play football this Saturday (ﬁ  ngers crossed).
With several weeks of bad feelings 
surrounding both school’s programs, this year’s UF-LSU rivalry looks to be more heated than usual. It came to a tip-ping point earlier this week when LSU defensive end Arden Key said that Flor-ida is “scared” to travel to LSU to play.
While several Florida players denied 
being scared, we here at alligatorSports are comfortable in admitting our worst fears, and we’d like to share them with you, the reader, in hopes that we can all create a more open, loving and friendly environment around a sport in which 300-pound men ram into each other over and over again for our enjoyment.
Debating this week’s matchup be-
tween watching a horror ﬁ  lm and watching a comedy are sports editor Ian Cohen and assistant sports editor Ethan Bauer.
Horror ﬁ  lms win because…Do you remember the ﬁ  rst true hor-
ror ﬁ  lm you ever watched? 
Of course you do. Everyone does. Granted, you were just seven years 
old, ﬂ  ipping through channels late at night while your parents were in bed, leaving you unable to sleep right for the next ﬁ  ve and a half months until you were forced to see a fear therapist throughout grade school.
The point is, you remember it. Isn’t 
that worth something?
-Ian 
Comedies win because…
One of my favorite movies ever is 
Anchorman 2, a ﬁ  lm categorized as a comedy but, in my mind, one that also qualiﬁ  es as horror in its own way. 
While the ﬁ  lm generally goes after PICKS
SITE: Tiger Stadium (cap. 102)
KICKOFF: 1 p.m., Saturday 
TV /RADIO: ESPN2 / 850 AM
SEC Network/Gators IMG 
Sports Network
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 22
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Today, for the ﬁ  rst time in program history, 
Florida will play against Wisconsin in the 
second round of the NCAA Tournament.
And while the Gators may not be overly 
familiar with their opponent, they still 
understand how difﬁ  cult it will be to advance 
past the Badgers.
“They have one of the best players in 
collegiate soccer in Rose Lavelle,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said on Wednesday. “I think their coach is really, really good. She’s won at the highest levels. I really respect how she prepares her team and the buy-in she gets from her team. So you know they are going to be 
ready.”
Lavelle, the 2016 Big Ten Midﬁ  elder of the 
Year, leads Wisconsin with six goals and 16 
points this season.
But the Gators have been able to contain 
their opponents’ offensive weapons all year long. 
In the Southeastern Conference Tournament, 
the Gators kept SEC Offensive Player of the Year Savannah McCaskill out of the net.
And in the ﬁ  rst round of the NCAA 
Tournament against FGCU, Florida didn’t allow Tabitha Tindell, who is No. 2 on the NCAA’s 
list of active career leaders in points and goals, 
any opportunities to score either.
“They are a different opponent than we have 
ever seen before,” goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese said. “Right now, I’m just super excited to get back on the ﬁ  eld.”
The Gators' defense, which gave up 16 goals 
in its ﬁ  rst 10 matches, has only given up six UF  soccer team hosts NCAA second round 
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 22 22   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
goals in the last 11 matches. UF has 
also recorded nine shutouts on the season.
Florida’s offense, led by senior 
forward Savannah Jordan, is one 
of the best in the SEC, leading the 
conference in goals, goals per game and assists. 
Jordan leads the team in nearly 
every statistical category, including points, shots, and goals. But Jordan isn’t doing it all by 
herself.
In the last ﬁ  ve matches,  ﬁ  ve 
other players besides Jordan have been able to score for the Gators.
“That’s kind of the nature 
of the way we play,” Burleigh said. “It is kind of cool when you can have multiple weapons on a team. And not just for scoring, but for anything. For playmaking, defending, anything. And I think 
our team has done a good job of it.”
If Florida advances past the Badgers, they will host the winner 
of the Auburn-Connecticut match on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Sweet 
16.
“We’re excited to play them,” 
Markese said. “It could be our last 
game, it could be their last game so we know that we are all going to put everything we have out on the ﬁ  eld.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg21The Gators' defense has given up 
just six goals in their last 11 matches
Eric Glemser / Courtesy of the UAA
Kaylan Marckese (31) jumps to catch a ball during Florida's 1-0 win against South Carolina in the 
semiﬁ  nals of the 2016 SEC T ournament. Florida has recorded nine shutouts this season.
cheap laughs and features a ques-tionable plot at best, it also mocks the click-baiting, car-chasing, ani-mal-discussing cable news industry 
in a way that’s horrifying because 
it’s, to quote Anchorman sportscast-
er Champ Kind, “so dang true.”
So why pick just horror when 
you can pick both?
-Ethan Bauer
Now, onto the picks!
In ﬁ  rst place with a 45-41-2 re-
cord is sports writer Ian “Wings of 
Death” Cohen, who is deathly afraid of butterﬂ  ies. Earlier this semster, he even likened them to ﬂ  ying grass-hoppers with weird-looking noses. But don't worry, Ian, the car wind-shield should keep you safe from those ﬂ  uttering terrors on the way to Baton Rouge. 
In second place with a 43-43-2 
record is the Gainesville Sun’s Gra-ham “Lance Armstrong" Hall, who is afraid of going out of shape but is too lazy to actively do anything about it, except for the one bike ride a week he takes when he travels to football media. (Except for this Wednesday, when he took the easy way out and drove his car, but we won’t mention that.)
In third place with a 40-45-1 
record is sports writer Ethan “Mr. Nice Tie” Bauer. Ever wonder what Ethan’s worst fear is? That’s easy: It’s opening up his closet and not seeing a freshly pressed tie to wear to class on a Wednesday morning. It makes him shudder just thinking about it.
In fourth place with a record of 
39-46-2 record is sports writer Pat-rick “Baseball is life” Pinak. Most people need food, water and oxygen 
to survive. And that makes sense 
— they’re three of the most essen-
tial nutrients needed to sustain life 
on Earth. Patrick just needs baseball and a captive audience to retell the 
story about the time he almost hit 
a home run in high school. If he 
doesn’t have both, his entire world 
crumbles.
In ﬁ  fth place with a record of 
38-47-2 is GatorCountry.com’s Nick “Small Guy” De La Torre, whose worst fear was triggered even while 
reading that nickname. Nick’s fear? 
Missing leg day. Gotta stay jacked 
for climbing up and down those sta-dium steps.
We have a tie for sixth place with 
records of 37-48-2.
First is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “Should I get a toupee” 
Thompson, whose worst fear is un-
doubtedly going bald. I hear stores 
nationwide are having a discount on all wigs all through November in honor of Donald Trump being elect-
ed as the next president. I’d get on 
that if I were you, Edgar.
Next is 247sports.com’s Thomas 
“What, no Injuries?!?“ Goldkamp, 
who wakes up in a cold sweat from 
his worst nightmare every night: 
being late to a Jim McElwain press conference and missing out on which players were injured during practice that week.
And in dead-ass last with a piss-
poor record of 34-51-2 is sports writ-er Jordan “Stat Heaven” McPherson, who lives in constant fear of acci-dentally writing a story without a statistic. It's OK, Jordan. All of your stats are safe and sound.PICKS,  from pg. 21FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016   ALLIGATOR   23  
24   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2016
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Antonio Callaway turned and 
propelled himself through the air 
like a rocket, extending his arms as 
high as they’d go to grab the foot-
ball. The pair of LSU defenders on either side of him didn’t have time to react. 
He had it — the touchdown, the 
tie and the momentum — in his hands. 
And then he didn’t. As he made his way back to 
Earth, LSU corner Dwayne Thomas jabbed the ball out with a punch. Callaway cratered into the ground, holding his head in disappointment 
before getting up. Thomas, mean-
while, opened and closed his arms in triumph to signal the incomple-tion. 
That play was the pivotal mo-
ment of last year’s Florida-LSU matchup. Trailing 28-35, the Gators could’ve tied the game if Callaway would’ve held on. 
Instead, UF lost by the same 
score. But this season, with an-other matchup at Death Valley on Saturday, No. 23 Florida (7-2, 5-2 Southeastern Conference) is hop-
ing to avenge last season’s loss.
“We just gave up too many big 
plays last year,” Florida cornerback 
Jalen Tabor said. 
“They didn’t do nothing special. 
You get a ﬂ  ea-ﬂ  icker, a lollipop 
pass before the half and a fake ﬁ  eld 
goal — it’s hard to beat that.”
Saying the Tigers “didn’t do 
nothing special” might not do the game justice. No. 16 LSU (6-3, 4-2 SEC) did plenty of special things.
For example, with 27 seconds 
left until halftime and the ball at midﬁ  eld, LSU quarterback Brandon Harris dropped back with the rush in his face. 
Caleb Brantley got there ﬁ  rst, forcing Harris to run right. There 
he met Jordan Sherit, who got a 
grasp on Harris but couldn’t hold on. 
After escaping, the LSU quar-
terback sailed the ball as far as he 
could, ﬁ  nding wideout Malachi Du-pre open after safety Marcus Maye slipped and fell. 
Touchdown Tigers. 
Florida had its share of odd 
plays as well, including Antonio Callaway nearly slipping and fall-
ing on a punt return before outrun-
ning a pair of Tigers and taking it 72 yards for a score. 
There was also his desperation catch with one knee already on the ground that kept Florida in the game late. 
But it’s not either of those plays 
or even his pivotal drop that Calla-way remembers most about facing the Tigers a season ago. 
“They got a ﬂ  uke,” Callaway 
said. “The kicker, they had a fake 
ﬁ  eld goal.”
If there were one play aside 
from Callaway’s drop Florida wish-
es it could have back, it would be 
the one Callaway himself is refer-
encing. 
With the game tied 28-28 late in 
the fourth quarter, LSU brought out kicker Trent Domingue to attempt 
a lead-taking 33-yard ﬁ  eld goal. 
At the snap, Florida’s defenders 
shot through LSU’s linemen, reach-
ing the backﬁ  eld just in time to 
watch holder Brad Kragthorpe ﬂ  oat 
a pass to the sprinting Domingue. 
The kicker bobbled it but held 
on, out-running Vernon Harg-reaves to reach the end zone for 
the deciding score. 
“It was close. Came down to the 
last second,” Callaway said. “They 
earned it, though.”
This year, Florida is looking for 
vengeance. LSU is always consid-ered a rivalry game, but after what happened to the Gators last season as well as Hurricane Matthew forc-
ing this year’s game to be played in 
Baton Rouge, UF players said the game’s intensity feels more person-al than usual. 
“There is deﬁ  nitely a sense of 
rivalry,” offensive lineman Fred Johnson said, “and it’s a strong one and a ﬂ  uid one.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org  Florida hoping history doesn’t repeat itself against LSU
The Gators lost in Baton Rouge last season
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway lies on the grass during UF’s win over South Carolina. During last season’s game against LSU, 
Callaway almost caught the game winning touchdown before a defender knocked the ball from his hands.
