NEW STUDENT EDITION
Florida Alligato r
TheAlligator_
@TheAlligato rJ. Wayne Reitz Union at the University of FloridaSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMHIGH  90° LOW  72°
WHAT'S HAPPENING
Blue Star Museums
The Florida Museum of Natural 
History is offering free admis -
sion to all fee-based exhibits for 
active duty U.S. military person -
nel and their families, beginning 
Monday, May 30, on Memorial 
Day through Labor Day, as part of 
the Blue Star Museums program. 
It runs from Monday - Saturday 
10-5; Sunday 1-5.
Pops 4 SPOHP
On September 1 from 6 p.m. to 
9 p.m. the Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program will be clos -
ing out the summer with its 
2nd annual benefit party at First 
Magnitude Brewing Company, 
featuring gourmet ice pops from 
Hyppo Gainesville, live music and ice cold craft beer and food truck 
fare on site. Admission is $10 in 
advance and $15 at the door (and 
$10 at the door for students with 
ID). Please e-mail mfrenzer@ufl.
edu or tamarraj@ufl.edu to order 
tickets in advance. 
Dorrance Dance: UFPA’s Season 
Opener
Michelle Dorrance is a MacArthur 
“Genius” Grant Winner.  This 
show is not for you if you’re 
not fond of loud noises or prefer 
traditional dance performanc -
es. Tickets: Pit, Orchestra A-P, 
Mezzanine $40 | Orchestra Q-Z 
$30 | Balcony $20 | UF Students 
$10
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To en -
sure publication in the next day’s 
newspaper, please submit the 
event before 4 p.m. Please model 
your submissions after above 
events and keep them  150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis -
sions may not appear in the pa -
per. Press releases will not appear 
in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and 
editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org.  
The Alligator  offices are located at  2700 SW 13th St . Classified advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
 Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
  mgettenberg@alligator.org    
 Managing Editor / Online  Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
 Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor   David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
 Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
 Photo Editor  Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
 Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
 Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto,  
  Kaelah Scheff     
  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Office Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives  Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classified Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
 Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 169
Less than 3 miles from UF!
Air conditionedCoinless Card SystemFree WifiAttendant present at all timesOpen 7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.      (last wash at 9:00 P.M.)
2430 N. Main Street | 352.376.8609
facebook.com/GatorlandLaundromat
By Ariana Figueroa 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Congratulations! You are part of the first 
freshman class to enjoy the benefits of the Re -
itz Union.
That shiny building wasn’t always there. 
Since May 2013, the Reitz has undergone a 
$75 million expansion and officially opened 
in Spring.
The departments in the Reitz include Ca -
reer Resource Center the Center for Leader -
ship & Service, GatorWell, Multicultural & 
Diversity Affairs, Student Activities & Involve -
ment, Student Government and Student Legal 
Services.
On the lower level of the Reitz there is the 
SG computer lab where you can print, dance 
studios and the Arts & Crafts center. 
The ground floor offers students a barber -
shop, SG bike repair, Wells Fargo, Orange and 
Brew, a restaurant and brewery, and a game 
room that offers bowling and billiard tables. 
On the first level there’s an entrance to 
the Constans Theatre, UF Bookstore and food 
court. 
The second floor is for meeting rooms, 
Grand Ballroom, Auditorium, Center for Lead -
ership & Service and Multicultural & Diversity 
Affairs. 
The third floor of the Reitz is where you’ll 
find reflection rooms where students can 
meditate, more meeting rooms and Student 
Government offices.
The fourth floor is home to Arredondo 
Cafe, a buffet that serves soup, salad and hot 
entrees. It’s a change of pace from the aver -
age Gator Dining experience, including a nice 
view of campus to boot.
The Reitz is a great place to grab a bite in 
between classes or to find a spot and study. 
Regardless of how your time is spent at the 
Reitz, it’s an easy place to unwind and appre -
ciate the architecture.
If there’s an event on campus, odds are it’ll be in the Reitz. Concerts, movies and other 
events are often held on the second floor. 
The Reitz is also home to the infamous Gator 
Nights on Fridays. If you’re a freshman, you 
have to go at least once. 
Typically, the higher up you go in the building, the quieter it gets. You’ll find plenty 
of seating on all levels, but the good stuff is up 
top. If you’re feeling like getting some fresh 
air, the also-renovated amphitheatre is the 
good place to get some sun.
For a lot of students, the Reitz will feel like a second home. It’s a hot spot, a place for ev -
eryone of all backgrounds and personalities to 
build friendships. You could call it a hub of 
campus life, but that name’s already taken. 
Enjoy the Reitz Union in all of its new-car-
smell glory. We’ve earned it – together.NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR    3
Reitz Union renovation ready for its first freshman class
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
This will be the first Fall semester the Reitz Union has been open since the completion of a $75 million reno vation last Spring. 
Join the LUTHERAN GATORS CAMPUS MINISTRY
at the University Lutheran Church for some food 
and fellowship on Tuesdays at 5:30p.m.T.A.C.O. TUESDAYS
THEOLOGY & CAMPUS  OUTREACH
1826 W. University Ave · lutherangators@gmail.com
4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION
SOME RECRUITMENT 
STARTS THIS WEEK.
By Emily Cochrane
Alligator Staff Writer
The letters, the tanks, the game -
day dresses - Greek life certainly has a 
presence on UF campus. 
Rooted in scholarship, service, 
leadership and community, the four 
Greek councils on campus are the 
Interfraternity Council, the Panhel -
lenic Council, the Multicultural Greek 
Council and the National Pan-Hellenic 
Council. In order to join any of the sorority and fraternity chapters at UF, 
you have to be an enrolled student at 
the school. Some organizations may 
have additional requirements based 
on credit hours or grade averages.
More than 2,000 women belong to 
the 17 sorority chapters in the Panhel -
lenic Council, which begins recruit -
ment with an orientation on Tuesday. 
Women looking to join the chapters 
will go through the rush process by 
visiting each chapter, mostly at their 
houses on Sorority Row on 13th 
Street, and narrowing down their pref -
erences. The week-long process ends 
on Aug. 24. Membership for the Panhellenic 
Council ranges between $1,300 and 
$2,700 per semester.
The majority of the 25 fraternity 
chapters in the Interfraternity Council 
- the male equivalent of the Panhel -
lenic Council - have privately-owned 
houses on Fraternity Row or on 13th 
Street.
In order to live in one of the chap -
ter houses, you must be a degree-
seeking student at UF and an active 
member of the chapter. 
The Multicultural Greek Council 
governs seven fraternities and seven 
sororities, all rooted in Hispanic and Asian culture. With relatively small 
chapters, none of the organizations 
have a house. The council hosts a 
week of activities and informational 
meetings from Sept. 4 to Sept. 10, with 
a showcase on Sept. 9. The recruit -
ment process varies based on chap -
ter, but interviews and attendance at 
group events are generally expected. 
Out of the nine historically black 
fraternities and sororities that make 
up the National Pan-Hellenic Council 
nationwide, seven chapters are pres -
ent on the UF campus. While each or -
ganization hosts its own activities and 
informational meetings, the council will host a week of events beginning 
Sept. 11. 
Each chapter has weekly meetings 
and some mandatory events for ac -
tive members to attend after an initial 
semester going through the chapter’s 
new member education program. 
While all of the councils have re -
cruitment during the Fall semester, 
some chapters may also offer recruit -
ment during the first few weeks of the 
Spring semester. 
For more information, visit the 
fraternity and sorority affairs page at 
www.studentinvolvement.ufl.edu/
Sorority-Fraternity-Affairs.Options available for UF students interested in Greek life
NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Ariana Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Parking on campus is the 
bane of every student’s exis-
tence. 
No matter what your cicero-
ne told you, parking is limited. 
In order to park on campus be-
tween the hours of 7:30 a.m. 
and 4:30 p.m. you need to have 
a decal or pay $1 for every 45 minutes at the Reitz Union. 
There are four types of de-
cals you can purchase: annual, 
semester, monthly or weekly.
An year-long pass is $160, a 
semesterly pass is $80, a month-ly pass is $35 and a weekly pass 
is $15. Scooter or motorcycle 
passes are only sold in an an-
nual pass or semester pass and 
it’s the same cost as a car decal.
For most of you who are liv-
ing on campus, you’re looking at Red 1 and Red 3 decals. Red 
1 is for undergraduate students who have 50 credits or more and Red 3 is for students with fewer than 50 credits.
Now if you’re an undergrad 
and you plan to live off campus the type of parking pass you’ll get is called a Park & Ride decal, which doesn’t allow for parking north of lake Alice or east of Fraternity Row. Basically you’ll be taking several busses from 
your car.
Graduate students are in the 
same boat with a Green decal. 
Parking can be found near the 
O’Dome and Hume. 
Disabled students have ac-
cess to Disabled, Orange, 
Green, Red, Brown and Any De-cal spot.
If the parking situation is 
still stressing you out, there’s 
always the bus. Where you should 
park on campus
Courtesy to the Alligator
A map of the main section of UF’s campus, showing some of the available parking spots for students.
16th Avenue Diner16th Avenue Diner
Omelets – French Toast – Pancakes  
Hamburgers – Fries & More!207 NE 16th Ave · 352-378-0600 · 6 days a week
Breakfast & Lunch · Just GOOD FOOD
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
   facebook.com/gatorfurniture
MAIN SHOP ·  (352) 575-3542
230 NE 16th Ave, Gainesville 32601
WAREHOUSE · (352) 359-9950
1950 NE 27th Ave, Gainesville 32609
· · · · · lizettelupi@gmail.com · · · · · UNCLAIMED
FURNITURE
RECEIVE
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORComedy coming out of the closet for college
Hey there, Gators. Hey there, Baby Gators. 
I’m kidding, of course; the Baby Gators 
can’t read. Was that commentary on our 
shoddy American education system and 
its effect on our incoming freshmen, or 
was that an obvious statement because the tod -
dlers of the Baby Gator nursery most likely can -
not read?
Art is all about interpretation.
So, how was your summer? Or, if you were 
here at UF, how was your Summer?  Y’all should really take 
a peek at the Alligator Stylebook, which deals with a bunch 
of these grammatical, syntactical quirks. Did you know syn -
tactical was a word? I didn’t know until I typed it out.
So, hey there. I write columns about comedy. I’m going 
to keep doing that. Let’s talk about comedy. Have you ever 
heard of Andy Kaufman? Let’s talk about Andy Kaufman. 
He never considered himself a comedian, and most of his 
later work never involved traditional jokes. Rather, he 
spent his career pranking his contemporary audience and 
maintaining a number of facades, personas and false be -
liefs. I won’t go into detail; watch his material yourself if 
you’d like. Calling him a prankster would be undermining 
his genius, but in essence that’s who he was: He spent his 
career lying to and tricking his audience.
Comedy is a series of puzzles. To solve a puzzle, you use 
logic to connect bits of information together to create a solu -
tion.  A good joke provides all the information, and it’s up 
to the audience to find the joke’s central irony. Kaufman, 
however, never revealed to his contemporary audience a 
key bit of information: He never revealed his antics were 
hoaxes. His anti-woman wrestling career, his rude and ob -
noxious lounge lizard persona and the purposeful hiccups 
in his TV show were all portrayed as very real by Kaufman 
and his cohorts. Again, look all of this up. It’ll be good for 
you.
Kaufman’s life was so full of hoaxes and staged acci -dents that when he died in 1984, many folks 
thought his death was a lie. And while his close 
friend Bob Zmuda has essentially confirmed his 
death, a handful of people refuse to fall for an -
other one of Kaufman’s pranks.
If you think about it, Andy Kaufman is one of 
the only comedians to have an exclusively post -
humous audience. The folks for whom he per -
formed weren’t the audience members of “Satur -
day Night Live” or of “Taxi.” He performed for 
us. Let me explain.
Comedy is a puzzle, right? And the major piece that was 
missing for his audience was the fact that it was a joke. If 
you were to take Kaufman’s performances seriously, you’d 
most likely be disgusted or made otherwise uncomfortable. 
But now that we’ve looked back at Kaufman, conducted 
interviews with friends and family and linked together his 
antics, we can look at Kaufman as one of the grandest co -
medians of all time. His jokes spanned years, and the payoff 
now is incredibly satisfying for us as audience members. 
What’s more, his comedy was always self-deprecating. Not 
self-deprecating in the sense that he beat himself up, but 
in the sense that he put himself in scenarios in which his 
audience beat him up — literally, in some cases. If you’re 
interested in how artists handle the public eye or media at -
tention, look to Andy Kaufman.
So, what’s the opinion here? I have a knack for talking 
about comedy and then shoehorning in a moral or two. 
So, I’ll do that again here. Firstly, comedy is an art. Ob -
viously. Secondly, consider for whom you’re performing, 
Baby Gators. You perform when you meet people, when 
you speak up in class and when you interview at showcases 
and at places of employment. And your audience doesn’t 
necessarily know what they want until you give it to them. 
Experiment. Subvert their expectations. Be funny.
Michael Smith is a mechanically engineered junior. His 
columns are merely mirages. Welcome to the 
Swamp: Let’s 
talk emotion
College: the closest thing to an “O brave new world” mo -
ment you can get it – besides graduating and entering the haze 
of “adulting” in the free world, or falling in love, road tripping 
with your two favorite allies, getting fired from your first job, 
sprouting some gray hairs. Perhaps there are a lot of brave new 
worlds out there, but nonetheless, here you are at one of the first 
big ones.
Welcome, new students, dear readers, to this great unwritten 
chapter of your lives. There’s so much beauty, life, love, pain, 
loneliness, triumph and funk on the menu over these next few 
years, and there’s value in each serving.  
We at the Alligator will spare you from a Buzzfeed-esque “top 
10 things to do” list – not that those kinds of advisories aren’t 
important. But given the resources and advising to come your 
way, we feel our space can be used for other kinds of discussion.
 Let’s talk about anger and restraint.
You see, aside from the socials, rush events, local Gainesville 
music shows and caffeine-induced study sessions, throughout 
you’re time in college, you’ll likely look to the news (maybe even 
your local Alligator paper) and think, “What’s with this crazy 
world we live in?
As a result, you might grow resentful of the current state of af -
fairs and the hypocrisies that stump the progress of our society at 
various levels of the political bureaucracy. Or maybe you’re just 
fed up with hearing about this damn election.
Well, in the spirit of Malcom X – there’s a gift for that: anger. 
It’s what allows us to say enough is enough. It fuels our struggle 
to hold leaders accountable for their record and our desire for an 
economy that prioritizes people over profit.
Anger is Black Lives matter pushing pervasive racism to the 
national political discourse. Anger is we students holding Student 
Government and UF administration accountable when we feel 
they’ve conducted themselves inappropriately.
But like any gift, anger must be taken proper care of so as not 
to be misguided or ill-conceived. This is where restraint comes in. 
Restraint is about prioritizing evidence and enlightenment over 
winning arguments or unjustifiably humiliating others.
Any angry student can go online and blast Republicans for 
being gun-nutty and racist or Democrats and “Libs” for being 
soft and welfare-fiends. But a practice of restraint is to cast aside 
character attacks and stick to the issues at hand, holding discus -
sions based on evidence for the sake of progress.
Restraint is reading through the horrid details of the Depart -
ment of Justice report on the Baltimore Police Department and 
its unlawful arrests and pedestrian stops over the past five years, 
while still being able to march side-by-side with police you trust 
in your community in protest of systemic racism and police bru -
tality across the country. 
Restraint is hating what Donald Trump represents while hav -
ing the wherewithal to not commit an act of violence against 
another human being for wearing a Trump T-shirt – which hap -
pened in Bloomfield, New Jersey, on August 9, according to the 
local police. 
Restraint is humbling yourself as an individual and prioritiz -
ing the evidence and the discussion over your biases and willing -
ness to blame the other for the problems you perceive.
So, we ask you – new students, dear readers, fresh and in -
nocent minds – take to all the joy and learning opportunities UF 
has to offer. And as you experience the events around you and 
the reactions within you, remember: Keep your anger close and 
your restraint closer.
NEW STUDENT EDITION
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgNEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“So, where are you going to 
college?” 
This is the question peo -
ple bombard all aspiring high 
school graduates before they 
leave for college. After one gives an answer 
to the person passively listening, that per -
son follows up with why they really ask: 
to give their advice on how to survive the 
first months of college. Everyone and their 
grandma, literally, love to open up on what 
they think one should do as they begin a 
major transition in their lives. On the other 
hand, I’d appreciate some advice from the 
upcoming freshmen.
Sometimes it takes a fresh pair of eyes, 
or thousands of pairs, to understand phe -
nomena so perplexing. The trend I need 
help in understanding is this university’s 
on-campus dining. This is probably my 
third article on the topic of meal plans 
themselves. Would I have displayed a 
more professional image in opinionating 
by looking for legitimate sources to write 
this article? Probably. Maybe for next 
year’s freshmen. Until then, a freshman’s best hope is freshmen.
As wise elders probably 
stressed the importance of edu -
cation, learning, other things, 
they most likely missed what’s 
most vital: eating. Feeding a 
hungry mind proves difficult 
with an empty stomach. Al -
though many freshmen may 
have looked to meal plans to 
provide meals for their first year, they’ll 
have to keep looking elsewhere if they’re 
one of those that needs to eat to survive. 
What keeps me up most late at night is 
wondering where they keep all the food 
they served at Preview. That food was 
so good, or at least good enough to make 
all of us at one point in time think a meal 
plan may seem like a good idea. However, 
the quality of food served in the dining 
halls gradually worsens as a school year 
goes by. The fake eggs lose their ability to 
pass as edible, the meat starts to look less 
like meat, and the once-great idea of eat -
ing pizza every day comes back to haunt 
us by the second month. Basically, please venture to find the reasoning on 
how students are supposed to 
become innovative leaders to 
shape a better future and repre -
sent this institution when dining 
halls can’t even serve a decent 
meal.
As a hint to those brave 
enough to search for answer, 
they will probably want to start 
by understanding where the food comes 
from in the first place. In 2008, the Uni -
versity of Florida signed a 10-year contract 
with Aramark to provide the food services 
for the dining halls. Since then, Aramark 
was kicked out by Michigan correction fa -
cilities – serving Aramark food to prison -
ers was inhumane – and the company has 
come under fire at other universities for 
the poor quality of food. The only reason 
UF dining halls continue to have business 
each year is because freshmen are not yet 
accustomed to non-Preview dining halls, 
which is why the majority of students with 
a meal plan are freshmen. Although fresh -
men eventually realize they’ve made a mis -take, Gator Dining Services forces students 
to keep a meal plan for a full year because 
of something called “Fall-Spring commit -
ment,” yet who or what students are ex -
actly committing to is still under question. 
If someone with a meal plan reads this ar -
ticle, maybe they can actually learn of the 
mistake made before it’s too late.
Will someone eventually search for rel -
evant and legitimate sources to one day 
provide answers to uncover the mottled 
relationship between on-campus dining 
halls and the student they serve? Hope -
fully. Until then, the only advice I can give 
is to switch to a Declining Balance Account 
as soon as possible if you have made the 
“freshmen mistake” of purchasing a meal 
plan. As freshmen, you all will face many 
challenges when beginning your college 
experience. Classes, exams, clubs and the 
like all compete for your time and atten -
tion. Trying to find a decent meal shouldn’t 
be one of them.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineering sophomore. His column ap -
pears weekly.Let's talk about food, meal plans: looking for advice from, not for freshmenColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
***Pricing and availability vary by state. Pricing subject to change without notice. Tax 
estimated. Based on 14 day payment option. Leases are subject to approval. The precise payment amount will be disclosed in the Customer Lease Agreement. $15***
lease it with payments as low as Kenmore 32" Class LED 720p 
HDTV retail $199.99
Kenmore 1.1 cu. ft. Microwave retail $119.99 
$12***lease it with 
payments 
as low as 
$23***lease it with 
payments as 
low as Kenmore 2 Burner Patio 
Grill retail $135.00TAKE IT
TODAYHOME  
By Sabrina Sturzenbecker
Alligator Contributing Writer
Pokemon Go, a Harry Potter 
book club, fitness classes, local 
author visits and so much more 
are waiting for you at 12 local li -
braries in your Alachua County 
Library District. If you spent a 
majority of your summer playing 
Pokemon Go, you will be happy 
to know that 11 libraries in Alach -
ua County are PokeStops, and Li -
brary Partnership Branch, located 
at 1130 NE 16th Ave., is a Gym. 
On Aug. 30 from 6 p.m. to 8 
p.m., Headquarters Library, lo -
cated downtown at 401 E. Uni -
versity Ave., will bring Pokemon 
Go players together for Lures @ 
the Library. Multiple lures will be 
dropped and players can stop by 
the reference desk and show off a 
screenshot of a Pokemon you’ve 
seen or caught inside the library 
for a chance to win a $25 gift card 
to the local video game store R U 
Game.If you have time to read for 
fun, join the “Hogwarts Book 
Club” beginning Sept. 1 from 3:30 
p.m. to 4:30 p.m. in Headquar -
ters Library. The group will read 
one book a month, starting with 
“Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s 
Stone” in September. The group 
will finish out with “Fantastic 
Beasts and Where to Find Them” 
in May. If you’re interested in 
local authors, come to the Local 
Authors Showcase on Sept. 10 at 
10 a.m. and again at 2 p.m. Local 
authors will discuss, sign and sell 
their books. 
Are you stressing out over your 
first big exam? Worried about 
that “Freshman 15” creeping up 
on you?  Relax with Amrit Yoga 
with Veda on Thursdays at 5:30 
p.m. at Headquarters Library. 
Wear comfortable clothing, bring 
a yoga mat and a warm blanket, 
and you’re all set. Dance your 
way into fitness with Zumba ev -
ery Friday from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. 
at the Millhopper Branch, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. This branch 
is just a short trip from campus 
and offers a great way to discover 
Gainesville’s northwest neighbor -
hoods. 
September is Library Card 
Sign-Up Month. Your local Ala -
chua County Library District op -
erates 12 convenient library loca -
tions, plus two bookmobiles and 
an online e-Branch to provide a 
wonderful source of entertain -
ment and knowledge for people of 
all ages. You can even download 
free music to keep at aclib.us/
music. And remember, programs 
and services are free, so just stop 
by and get your library card. 
Look for library representatives 
on-campus in front of George A. 
Smathers Library from Sept. 12 to 
Sept. 16 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
and on the Santa Fe College cam -
pus Sept. 28 from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. in the Oak Grove area. All 
you need to get a free library card 
is a valid photo ID and proof of a 
Florida address.Take a break from school and 
slip into a library for books, mu -
sic, DVDs or eBooks and online 
resources. For information on 
programs at all 12 libraries, visit aclib.us/events, or for library 
card sign-up details visit aclib.us/
services. Learn more on Facebook 
at aclib.us/facebook.8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016  •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
Sabrina Sturzenbecker / Alligator
A case displays the Pokémon collection at the Alachua County 
Headquarters Library.
LOCAL
Alachua libraries offer books, Pokemon at 11 locations
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
auto repair shop
$19.99 Oil Change
10% off Tune Ups, Muffler Repair 
and Catalytic Converter Repair
125 NE 23rd Avenue Suite A ∙  352-225-5858
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer.Considering Consulting? 
Consult with an ALDI District Manager first.
You’ll hear all about $80K a year, a fully expensed AUDI A3, great 
training – our 50+ week onboarding program was named ERE’s Best for 2015 – and more. Add to that, feeling and working like an entrepreneur, every day, and there’s no question where you’ll want to be.
Find out more at aldiuscareers.com 
Welcome to more.®
Visit our booth at the Career Showcase on September 27th.
NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
The following is a paid advertisement10   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
TECH
By Aaron Albright
Alligator Staff Writer
In this day and age, we already 
spend more time than we like to 
admit on our laptops and phones. 
While apps like Facebook, Twit -
ter and Instagram are great, there 
are plenty of other apps that 
can help you be productive and 
make your college experience just 
slightly better.
All apps are available for both 
Android and iOS phones.
TransLoc Rider - Free 
Catch your bus on time by set -
ting alerts when your favorite bus 
is approaching. You can also view 
the location of multiple buses to 
help pick the right route to class 
and back. It’s an absolute neces -
sity if you’re one of the many stu -
dents who use the RTS bus sys -
tem regularly.
Dark Sky - $3.99
No weather app is created 
equal, but Dark Sky stands out as 
of the best for numerous reasons.
There’s a reason why 
Gainesville is commonly known 
as “Rainsville.” It’s because it 
rains here – a lot. Dark Sky can 
give you notifications when it’s 
about to rain down to the min -ute. It’s forecasts are extremely 
accurate and will always come in 
handy to know if you’ll need to 
pack an umbrella before heading 
off to class. 
Sleep Cycle - 99 cents
In college, sleep can be the 
most valuable yet most neglected 
aspect of your academic career. If 
you’re looking to get the most out 
of your sleep schedule or just try -
ing to even have a sleep schedule, 
look no further than Sleep Cycle. 
The app is as complicated or as 
simple as you want it to be. At its 
most basic level, the app will ana -
lyze your sleep – whether through 
your phone’s microphone or mo -
tion sensor – and determine when 
to wake you up. The more you 
use it, the more you’ll get out of 
it as your sleep data accumulates 
over the days and weeks. Keep in 
mind, you actually have to put 
your phone down and go to sleep 
for it to work.
Venmo - Free
Let’s face it. Carrying cash can 
be pretty annoying. While it’s al -
ways convenient to carry a few 
bills when you have them, hold -
ing physical paper money is grad -
ually becoming a thing of the past 
(Unless you’re going to Satchel’s Pizza). Luckily, there are now nu -
merous ways to painlessly trans -
fer money to your friends over the 
internet in a fast, secure and free 
way. Venmo (owned by PayPal) 
is one of the most popular meth -
ods to send and receive money 
for free. Once your information is 
entered, you’ll never need to wor -
ry about it again. The app keeps a 
“wallet” you can transfer money 
in and out of with ease.
F.lux - Free
When you’re pulling an all 
nighter studying for that exam, 
your computer screen can put an 
unhealthy strain on your eyes. 
It’ll also reduce your sleep qual -
ity. With F.lux (available on Mac, 
PC and Android), your comput -
er can automatically adjust the 
screen temperature as the sun sets 
to ease the stress on your eyes. 
Research has shown that the blue 
light emitted from our screens 
suppresses our brain’s ability to 
help us sleep. F.lux reduces the 
blue light, giving your computer 
or phone screen a pleasant, warm 
hue that’s easy on the eyes. 
If you have an iPhone run -
ning iOS 9.3 or later, Apple has 
an identical feature built-in called 
“Night Shift” that works the same 
way.There’s an app for that: the best apps for college success
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
If you’re planning on riding the bus, get used to this screen. Trans -
Loc Rider has all the features you’ll need to catch the bus on time.
NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
12   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
CAMPUS
Campus provides several options for quiet studying
By Mia Gettenberg
Alligator Staff Writer
You don’t have to venture off-
campus to find study spots to suit 
your needs. UF provides a wide 
range of on-campus spaces so you 
can ace your exams and finish your 
final papers, all without getting in 
your car.
Marston Science Library and 
Library West
Central to campus, both 
equipped with Starbucks locations, 
Marston Science Library and Li -
brary West are easy go-to locations 
for all types of studying: Reservable 
rooms offer larger spaces for group 
work, and upper floors host indi -
vidual desks for quieter studying. 
This year, Student Government has 
announced Library West will run 24 
hours, seven days a week. Marston 
Science Library will remain open 
every day of the week, with more 
limited hours over the weekend. Visit uflib.ufl.edu for more informa -
tion, including study room reserva -
tions and library schedules.
Reitz Union
After renovations and construc -
tion finished this past Spring, the 
Reitz Union upped the ante for study 
spots on-campus. The Social Stairs 
leading down to the open-air amphi -
theatre feature outlets for all the mo -
ments your laptop battery hits 5 per -
cent, and the Info Desk offers phone 
chargers for checkout. There’s a 
computer lab on the ground floor, 
and SG gives each student 250 pag -
es to print for free each semester. 
Check out union.ufl.edu for more 
information on amenities and hours.
Architecture and Fine Arts Li -
brary
Located near Little Hall, the Ar -
chitecture and Fine Arts Library of -
fers “bunk bed”-style study cubicles, 
complete with desks, walls and lighting for individual privacy. Reg -
ular seating is also available. You 
can even rent out handmade mugs 
for up to a week at a time for all of 
your coffee and tea cravings.
Plaza of the Americas
For those who enjoy fresh air and 
open spaces, the Plaza of the Ameri -
cas might just be the perfect spot for 
you. When the weather cools down 
toward the end of the Fall semester, 
bring a blanket or hammock out to 
the lawn just outside Library West to 
get some class reading done. While 
the plaza is normally bustling with 
Krishna Lunch customers and cam -
pus commuters during weekday 
afternoons, it’s usually quiet in the 
mornings, during classes or after af -
ternoon hours are over.
Empty classrooms
Sometimes the simplest solutions 
are the ones no one thinks of. Empty 
classrooms are easy options for stu -
dents searching for silent spaces, outlets, desks and even whiteboards 
or chalkboards. Typically, no one 
will disturb you if the door is shut, and you’ll be able to get a lot of work 
done without feeling claustrophobic 
or losing your Wi-Fi signal.Alligator File Photo
Library West is one of the most versatile study locations with a 
variety of study environments suited for groups and individuals.
NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
FOOD
By Jasmine Osmond
Avenue Writer
If you’re new to Gainesville, you’ve proba -
bly noticed one thing: everything is on Archer 
Road. Although it’s tempting to just go for 
everything from Target to Chipotle, there’s 
some little well-kept foodie secrets scattered 
around town. So hop on the bus or jump in a 
car for these fresh and cheap local favorites.
Flaco’s
What other little Latin eatery can you 
think of that’s open till 2:30 a.m. on the 
weekends and doesn’t have the word “Bell” 
in the name? Just need a late night Cuban? 
There’s nothing on the menu you can’t get 
for $8 or less, and with fresh ingredients and 
bread made in house, you won’t walk away 
hating yourself.
Crane Ramen
Although you’ll be spending a little more 
than the stuff your parents sent you to school 
with, Crane Ramen has choice ingredients 
and slow-simmered broth for a reasonable 
price. The most you’ll spend for a bowl is just 
under $13, and you won’t walk away hungry. 
These massive portions come packed with 
meat, vegetables, eggs, noodles and seafood. 
Finally, a ramen you won’t feel depressed about.
Burrito Famous
Inevitably, you’re going to spend at least 
one solid semester eating nothing but burri -
tos. Just don’t get pigeonholed into choosing 
between Moe’s, Chipotle or Burrito Brothers. 
Burrito Famous is locally owned, and for less 
than you’d spend on a burrito at either Chi -
potle or Moe’s, you have double the filling 
options. I’m not trying to knock your favorite 
burrito joint, but give it a try. They even de -
liver.
Bento Café
Feeling sushi? They’ve got you. Feeling 
Curry or Pad Thai? They’ve got you, too. 
Feeling a little of everything for under $10? 
Bento’s got you again. Although they have 
locations across the state, Bento started in 
Gainesville serving pan-Asian fare to broke 
college kids almost 20 years ago. Don’t settle 
for Chinese takeout when you have the Bento 
option.
The Jones
Feeling a tempeh Reuben sandwich? 
How about a quinoa breakfast bowl? Serv -
ing breakfast, lunch and dinner seven days 
a week, The Jones will make you feel good 
about eating badly, and most of their menu is 
also under $10.  Eating healthy and local By Catherine Dickson
Avenue Writer
Sure, you can go to one of the seven li -
braries offered at UF, but sometimes you 
need a change of scenery to boost productiv -
ity. And what better way to explore your new 
city (and actually get some studying done) 
then looking for a new place away from the 
craziness of campus?
Gainesville is a city tailored to college stu -
dents and the apartment complexes are no 
exception. If you live off-campus it’s likely 
that there is a perfect study space waiting 
for you in the clubhouse. Not only will it be 
quiet, but there’s all kinds of activities (you 
know, the ones you paid for) that will help 
give your mind a break when you need to 
step away from the textbook.
Small, private spaces where you live are 
perfect because you won’t be distracted by 
everything that needs cleaning as soon as 
you begin studying for your exam. You also 
won’t get distracted by all the new things 
you’ve discovered by finally cleaning your 
room. 
Some of the best day-long study sessions 
are usually had at coffee shops, and for me, one of the most welcoming cafes is Barnie’s 
Coffee and Tea Co., located at 5750 SW 75th 
Court.
This out-of-the-way, little-known coffee 
shop is home to my personal favorite coffee 
that Gainesville offers, Sweetwater Organic 
Coffee. Not only is it one of Gainesville’s 
best-kept secrets, but it gives the perfect at -
mosphere for some studying.
For an unconventional place to study, 
try hanging a hammock at Lake Alice. You 
wouldn’t think of it immediately, but the 
view is gorgeous and you just can’t beat the 
fresh air. Now, you’re outside, so a source 
of power is a little harder to come by. But 
as long as your laptop and cell phones are 
charged, you’ll be able to swing and study in 
the outdoors. 
Forming study groups in a lecture hall of 
500 is hard to do. Don’t be afraid to put a 
PSA on a discussion board for someone will -
ing to study before an exam.
Try out Skype or study together over 
coffee, you may make a new friend. Or, go 
explore Gainesville together in search of the 
perfect spot to study. At least you’ll learn 
something new - even if it’s not for class.Explore Gville and study, too 14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
The following is a paid advertisementMONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenueKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.
Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
The science behind the selfie
A UF professor takes a look at why we selfie pg. 19By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Learning to shop on a budget 
can be difficult but it can be fun 
when you learn how to maximise 
each dollar. And 
Gainesville has many clothing 
consignment and thrift stores, 
each less than 10 minutes from 
campus, that can help to build 
a wardrobe while spending less 
money. 
Goodwill, 3520 Southwest 
34th St., and The Salvation Army, 
55 Northwest 23rd Ave., are com -
mon thrift stores. You can find 
anything from dorm-approved 
appliances to new jeans. Keep an 
eye out, there are often hidden 
gems and brand-named clothing 
in the mix. 
Both stores accept donations 
of used clothes and furniture. It’s 
a chance for you to give those worn jeans another chance at life 
with a new owner. 
Plato’s Closet, 3441 West Uni -
versity Ave., is upscale consign -
ment. They give you money im -
mediately for gently used clothes 
that you bring in to sell. 
It provides a good way to 
make room in your closet while 
also earning some spending mon -
ey in return. 
Twice as Nice Thrift Consign -
ment Boutique, 4110 Southwest 
34th St., has a little bit of every -
thing, according to its Facebook 
page. 
Shoes, clothes and even furni -
ture, to decorate your new apart -
ment, is available for sale. 
Cecile’s Clothing Resale and 
Consignment Shop, 2131 North -
west 6th St., gladly accepts your 
used clothes. When clothes sell 
you can receive cash back, 40 
percent of the selling price. If you prefer, you can take 60 
percent of the selling price back 
when you shop with in-store 
credit, according to its website.
Flashbacks Recycled Fash -
ions and Furniture, 818 West University Ave., has been in 
Gainesville since 1986.
Flashbacks even sells its 
clothes online in its Etsy shop, 
for those that don’t have the time 
to make it in to the store. Urban Thread, 1202 Northwest 
23rd Ave., is easily Gainesville’s 
best kept secret when it comes to 
clothing stores. 
The store offers a variety of 
clothing, many of them coming 
from stores like Urban Outfitters, 
J. Crew, Anthropologie and Free 
People. 
Get on its mailing list to be the 
first to know when exciting new 
clothes hit the floor. 
Consignment stores often of -
fer additional discounts and sales 
on top of their already low pric -
es. Keep an eye out for the best 
deals and you’ll be sure to be 
best dressed in class and on the 
weekends. 
Store hours vary, check be -
fore you go, but you’ll be glad 
you made the effort to shop on 
a budget.  
Happy Shopping!
Underage nightlife options: 
How to enjoy midtown for the 21-under pg. 18By Ariana Figueroa 
Avenue Writer 
College is expensive but alco -
hol doesn’t have to be.
Take advantage of Happy 
Hour at some of the best bars and 
restaurants in Gainesville.
Just a reminder for those 
of you who are 21 or up, in 
Gainesville you cannot walk 
around with an open container of 
alcohol because it’s not allowed 
per Gainesville ordinances.
After a long day of classes you 
can grab a few drinks at the Salty 
Dog for $2.40 double wells and 
$1.35 domestic beer where Hap -
py Hour is from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
Monday through Saturday. While 
Sunday is usually a rest day, it 
won’t be for your liver as all day 
Sunday is Happy Hour.
Is craft beer more your style? 
If so, Tall Paul’s got you covered. 
Home to Alligator brewery, find 
drink specials on Thirsty Thurs -
day from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. There 
are three house beers: Squirrel 
Wrangler a nut brown ale, White 
Widow a Belgian white and Dev -
il’s Millhopper an IPA, according 
to its website.Check out Mother’s Pub 
& Grill for $1 drafts Monday 
through Sunday and $2 pints ev -ery Tuesday. You can also get $3 
burgers and $3 long islands on 
Friday.At Eight Seconds, ladies drink 
for free on Thursday until 12:30 
a.m. and enjoy $1 longnecks and $10 gets you all you can drink -
wells and domestic tallboys every 
Friday. You can even get free line 
dancing lessons on Thursday.
In the mood for Mexican food 
and tequila? Then Cantina 101 is 
your place. With specials every 
day, there’s bound to be some -
thing you like. On Margarita 
Monday get $1 margaritas from 
10 p.m. to 11 p.m. or a free one 
with a purchase of an entree.
Enjoy Free Beer Friday and 
live music at Swamp Restaurant 
every Friday. Just bring a $5 cov -
er fee and your student ID. Free 
beer, music and good vibes? You 
can’t go wrong.
Speaking of beer, Tripple’s 
Brews at 2440 SW 76 St and the 
Midnight at 223 S Main St have 
some of the best craft beers in 
Gainesville along with the Top 
at 30 N Main St. Granted these 
aren’t the cheapest options for 
beer, but if you’re in the mood 
to treat yourself these places are 
definitely worth checking out. 
With a wide range of domestic 
and craft beers there’s something 
for everyone.Deals, discounts and drafts: a guide to Gville beer 
FOOD
Alligator File Photo
Gainesville has plenty of options for fans of all kinds of alcohol. Keep in mind, it’s illegal to 
walk around with an open container.
Alligator File Photo
Flashbacks Recycled Fashions and Furniture is located 
at 818 West University Ave.
NEW STUDENT EDITION
Feeling thrifty? Try shopping at these local storesNEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 • NEW STUDENT EDITION
  
   
Free Delivery Offered for UF Area
NOW
NOWOPEN
ORDERFREE
Delivery
3amUntil
• Burgers
• Panini• Pulled Pork   Sandwiches• Donuts• Homemade Cookies• Brownies• And Much More• Dine-in / Take-out
Download our mobile
app for easy ordering
( )Gatorbaked.com
352-792-6505
12 SW 2nd Street
Located behind Cowboys
Hours: 3 pm - 3amFree Delivery Offered for UF Area
   
  
 N
NW 3rd St
SE 1st St
NE 3rd St
SW 3rd St
SW 2nd Ave
SW 5th Ave
SW 4th Pl
SW 4th Ave
SE 1st Ave
SW 1st Ave
Cyclops
Cinema
Manuel’s 
Vintage 
Room
Hippodrome
SE 2nd Ave
SE 2nd Pl
NW 2nd St
 SW 2nd St
SW 1st St
S Main St
 N Main St
E University Ave
Liquid
Ginger
Daily 
Green
Gator
BakedGainesville venues to visitBest places to grab a pizza 
Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Since the ’80s, Gainesville has had a 
prominent music scene. Tom Petty and the 
Heartbreakers, Less than Jake, Against Me, 
Hot Water Music and others came out of 
this little town. Gainesville is still producing 
great bands and has plenty of names travel -
ing though.
If you’re looking for a great place to see 
some local and out of town acts, try some 
of these venues.
Boca Backyard Bar
What more can you ask for? Between 
Boca Fiesta, a daytime and nighttime Mexi -
can restaurant and bar located at 232 SE 
First St., and the Palomino, a late-night 
pool hall and bar, sits a hidden little out -
door venue right downtown.The Atlantic
Here’s another multi-faceted location. 
Right off of Main Street in downtown 
Gainesville there’s the Atlantic, located at 
15 N. Main St. Where else can you go to see 
live music and be part of a Beyoncé dance 
party?  
Hardback Bar
The Hardback, located at 14 SW Second 
St., has been in Gainesville since the ’90s. 
Although it’s moved from the original lo -
cation, this intimate two-story venue hosts 
local and touring bands.
Loosey’s
A venue with an on-point food menu, 
this bar, located at 120 SW First Ave., hosts 
weekly karaoke sessions and live music. 
This is another venue that has both local 
acts and touring musicians multiple times 
a week.Mia Gettenberg
Avenue Writer
 
If there’s one thing Gainesville’s got a 
lot of, it’s pizzerias. Be sure to check out 
these places (as well as other local pizza 
spots) as soon as you get the urge to eat 
some cheesy goodness.
Leonardo’s By the Slice
Leonardo’s By the Slice, or just “Leo’s,” 
has been a favorite on University Avenue 
for decades, opening in 1973. From its gar -
lic rolls to just a slice of gooey cheese piz -
za, Leonardo’s has some of the best meals 
in town. While UF announced the purchase 
of the restaurant, Leonardo’s will stay open 
until at least the summer of 2017. Stop by 
this local landmark, located at 1245 W. Uni -
versity Ave., before it closes.
Satchel’ s PizzaAn iconic restaurant on the foodie scene, 
Satchel’s Pizza meshes the artistic quirki -
ness of Gainesville with high-quality cook -
ing. Sit down to eat in an empty Ford Falcon 
van, walk around the expansive gift shop 
and enjoy delicious pizza pies in a funky 
atmosphere. Satchel’s Pizza is located at 
1800 NE 23rd Ave.
Dough Religion Pizza Bar
A more recent addition to University Av -
enue, Dough Religion Pizza Bar has all the 
ease and fun of personal pizzas. You can 
choose all your own toppings, including 
meats, sauces, veggies and spices, or pick 
from a selection of Dough Religion pies. 
According to its website, the restaurant’s 
vegetables are all fresh from local farms. 
Dough Religion, located at 1404 W. Univer -
sity Ave., is only a quick walk across the 
street from campus.By Mia Gettenberg
Avenue Writer
Trying to deviate from your stan -
dard Starbuck’s order or iced Dunkin 
Donuts coffee? Look no further than 
these four local alternatives, and 
don’t worry - there’s a lot more cafes 
out there for the adventurous coffee-
drinker. Another tip: Don’t forget 
to check the hours before you head 
over!
CYM Coffee Co.
Nestled in a little plaza that also 
features the delicious Root & Pecker 
restaurant and a plant nursery, CYM 
Coffee Co. offers a warm, laid-back 
atmosphere with seating perfect not only for studying (straight-back 
chairs and tables) but also for loung -
ing and chatting. The cafe boasts a 
wide range of flavors for its coffee, 
and it also serves up a delicious Lon -
don Fog for those who prefer lighter 
tea flavors. Yelp gave CYM Coffee 
Co., located at 5402 NW Eighth Ave., 
4.5 out of 5 stars.
Pascal’s Coffeehouse
Tucked away just across the street 
from UF’s campus, Pascal’s Coffee -
house is a favorite among students 
and locals - especially for its won -
derful Cuban latte. The baristas are 
always friendly and helpful, and the 
bright, airy interior is simultaneously 
thought-provoking and soothing. This coffee shop is great for morning 
and afternoon studying, as it closes 
earlier than some other local cafes, 
and it’s a lovely treat during the cold -
er months: It’s got a fireplace. Yelp 
gave Pascal’s Coffeehouse, located at 
112 NW 16th St., 4 out of 5 stars.
Know Where Coffee
A tiny gem on a busy corridor, 
Know Where Coffee is walking dis -
tance from campus and has a deli -
cious cold brew coffee for all those 
hot afternoons. The menu is simple, 
the building is cozy and comfortable 
and the environment makes it easy 
to get work done while you’re there. 
Oh, and the coffee shop’s founder 
and manager won first-place in a latte art competition in March. Yelp 
gave Know Where Coffee, located at 
1226 W. University Ave., 4.5 out of 
5 stars.
Karma Cream
Known for its organic and vegan 
treats, Karma Cream’s got everything 
from desserts as pretty as they are de -
licious to tasty lunch and dinner op -
tions and, of course, wonderful hot 
and iced coffees. There’s a multitude 
of flavors available to add to your 
coffee, as well as a long list of teas 
This coffee shop is good for studying 
or enjoying a nice catch-up with your 
friends. Yelp gave Karma Cream, lo -
cated at 1025 W. University Ave., 4 
out of 5 stars.Where to go when you’re craving cups of caffeine
FOOD
OTHER PLACES TO 
GRAB YOUR COFFEE:
Coffee Culture
2020 NW. 13th St.
Maude’s Cafe
101 SE Second Place
Volta Coffee,  
T ea & Chocolate
48 SW. Second St.
MUSIC18   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
By Ariana Figueroa
Avenue Writer
With classes, clubs and social 
activities, it’s important to keep 
your body healthy and ﬁ  t.
With UF’s on-campus gyms, 
stadium and recreations, it’s easy 
to keep a healthy mind and body. 
The Student Rec Center offers lots of classes and is open Monday through Friday from 6 a.m. to mid-night and open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. If group ﬁ  t-ness classes or cardio aren’t your thing, the gym has an Olympic-sized pool.
If you’re into swimming there 
are three pools across campus. The Florida Pool, located at Student Rec, is open 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. and noon to 5:45 p.m. Monday through Friday. The pool is also open from noon to 6:45 p.m. Saturday and noon to 4:45 p.m. Sunday. The Broward and Graham pools are open Monday through Sunday from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Into running? Southwest Rec 
has an eighth-mile indoor track for you along with a two-story weight 
and treadmill room.
If you forgot your UF ID but still 
want to get a workout in, there’s al-
ways the Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Bring plenty of water because run-ning stadiums is one of the hardest things you’ll do. 
If you’re not a gym person, 
there’s always activities at Lake 
Wahlberg. Whether it’s kayaking, 
paddleboarding, sailing or rock climbing, you’ll be sure to burn some calories. 
For more information in UF’s 
gyms and schedules check out http://recsports.uﬂ  .edu/locations/tab-break-location-hours.Avoid Freshman 15 
by staying ﬁ  t in FallBy Giuseppe Sabella
Avenue Writer
Midtown is a zoo on the week-
ends, and Gainesville Police ofﬁ  -
cers are the zookeepers. 
About a month or two after 
starting college, students will start 
to hear stories about people being 
arrested for underage drinking. Sure, everyone knows it’s illegal to drink until the age of 21. Many also 
know how costly it can be to hire 
a lawyer and clear one’s criminal 
record (which is available at alach-uaclerk.org). 
But did you know a few arrests 
can actually hurt every under-
age student hoping to enjoy their 
newfound freedom and every bar owner who’s opening their doors to those students? 
During each quarter of the year, 
ﬁ  ve or more people are arrested 
in a bar that holds less than 201 people, or if 10 or more people are 
arrested in a bar that holds 201 or more people, the bar could face “underage prohibition,” according 
to Chapter Four of the Gainesville 
City Ordinances.
Underage prohibition, according 
to the ordinances, is when every-one under the age of 21 is barred from entering a bar between 9 p.m. and 2 a.m., even if it’s just to dance or get a burger. 
You made it to college. You are 
smart (you’re loyal), so do smart things. There are certain things you shouldn’t do in public. 
There’s a stigma that everyone in college drinks, or that people 
should drink if they don’t already. 
How else are students supposed to 
have fun? There are plenty of ways, 
actually.
University Avenue alone is lined 
with at least three hookah lounges and several 18-and-up bars where 
students can dance, eat, learn 
something new about their friends or meet someone new.
Another stigma about college -- 
and really life in general -- is that 
drinking at bars is the best thing 
since sliced bread and Tinder. 
You’ve been fooled.
Good luck going to a bar, buy-
ing the 10 cheapest drinks possible and tipping the bartenders (you 
better tip) without spending less 
than $40. It won’t happen.
Now, take $40 to the grocery 
store. If you’re 21, that could mean 
two 24-packs are in your future. If 
you’re underaged, that could mean 
about a week of groceries if you are 
BOGO-conscious. Underage nightlife: forget the beer 
LIFESTYLE
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterHave fun, but be safe
Another stigma about college 
-- and really life in general -- 
is that drinking at bars is the 
best thing since sliced bread 
and Tinder. NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
By Jennifer Jenkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
Selfies: a new staple of monu -
mental moments, from vacation to 
the middle of graduation.   
But after selfies led to a string of 
deaths in 2016, Michael Weigold, 
an associate dean and a professor at 
UF’s College of Journalism and Com -
munications, decided to investigate.
Argentinian tourists killed a baby 
La Plata dolphin in February to 
snap a selfie with it, which caused 
the dolphin to become stressed and 
over heated, according to his report, “Why do people risk their lives for 
the perfect selfie?”  
“(Taking selfies) is like anything 
else: taken to extremes, it can lead to 
problems,” Weigold said.
People generally take and share 
selfies, he said, to make themselves 
feel admired or to gain approval from 
others.
“Research suggests people who 
take a lot of selfies may have a nar -
cissism problem,” he said, “whereas 
people who look at other’s selfies 
too much sometimes suffer from low 
self-esteem.”
Narcissistic or not, too many self -ies could lead some to a “selfie el -
bow” diagnosis.
In June, “Today” show host Hoda 
Kotb told viewers her elbow pain is 
the result of constantly taking self -
ies, according to a Washington Post 
article.
Dr. Kevin Lulofs-Macpherson, the 
assistant director of clinical educa -
tion at UF’s Department of Physical 
Therapy, said selfie elbow is a new 
form of tennis elbow.
When someone takes a selfie, he 
said, they extend their arm and keep 
their hand in a flexed position, using 
their fingers to squeeze the phone.He said the awkward angle goes 
against the hand’s normal move -
ment.
“In today’s social media era, it is 
really unrealistic for me to tell some -
one to decrease their use of selfies,” 
Lulofs-Macpherson said.
Instead, he encourages people to 
use a selfie stick with a timer, switch 
the arm they use to take a selfie or 
ask someone else to take the photo.
However, when used responsi -
bly, people such as Joseph Haecker 
would argue fear of selfie elbow 
could be replaced by excitement for 
selfie-optimizationHaecker is the CEO and founder of 
Dezignwall, a company that released 
“Designed for ‘Selfie-Optimization,’” 
a series on how businesses can de -
sign their shops and restaurants to 
encourage selfies and gain attention.
Some restaurants, he said, have 
switched to more attractive plates or 
better lighting, and others are think -
ing about offering incentives.
“For instance, if Starbucks would 
give you 10 percent off a drink if 
you took a selfie, you would reach 
more people in one second than you 
would if you told someone about it,” 
he said. The science behind selfies: a look inside the phenomenon
MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-23-16-17-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-22-16-15-1
Furnished 2BR/2BA in 4BR/4BA Countryside condo. Rent $400/rm/mo with 1st month FREE in year lease. Utilities, basic cable, and internet included. E-mail: countryside -
apt@gmail.com     8-23-16-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
3BR/2BA, MANY AMENITIES. $800/moSPARROW CONDOS. 15 min to UF by bus.Call 850-974-0686      8-25-16-5-2
2BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
Cabin Life in the Country: easy commute up 441 (Citra). 2BR/2BA, Modern 2-story, 2000+ sq ft log home, custom interior wood -
work. climate-controlled shop/garage/barn on 3+ acres w/ 2 carports & detached garage for cars-trucks-tractors-boats-toys. $245K Appt 352-317-8870..     8-23-16-3-5
On the South’s Best Trout Fishing River3.5 Acres $14,900!350 ft of US National Forest FrontageFantastic InvestmentCall Today!1-888- 270-4695     8-15-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
PUBLIC AUCTION – Onsite &amp; OnlineBroadcrown, Inc.Thurs, August 25th at 10:00 AM6095 NW 82 Ave, Doral, FL 33166Large assortment of Generator Parts by John Deere, Perkins, Cummins, Kohler, Mitsubishi, Volvo and othersParts include: fuel filters, wire harnesses, oil filters, breakers, gaskets, sensors, injectors and much more!Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case No.:2016-01985 CA 01Catalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.com 15%-18% BP ● (800) 840-BIDS ● (954) 252-2887AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin      8-15-1-10
PUBLIC AUCTION – Onsite &amp; OnlineShooting Sports Pro Shop, LLC.Wed, August 31 at 11:00 AMPreview: 9-11amLocation:2640 West 84 Street Hialeah, FL 33016Huge collection of Firearms, vast qty. of AmmunitionLarge assortment of Accessories and Display Fixtures.Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case No.:2016-CA- 00478Catalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.com15%-18% BP ● (800) 840-BIDSAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     8-15-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedNEW STUDENT EDITIONNEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   21
8-15-16-25-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
8-15-16-25-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. 
$2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-
8-12
2014 YAMAHA 250CC MOTORCYCLE
Very low miles, white, great condition. $2800. 
Call 352-372-2815     8-26-16-6-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647      8-15-1-12
DONATE YOUR CARFOR BREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556     8-15-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.ACROSS
1 Scale readings:
Abbr.
4 Pau or Marc of
the NBA
9 Roofing material
14 Snicker syllable
15 Essential acid,
familiarly
16 Online cash-back
deal
17 WSW’s opposite18 Giveaway bags
19 Lone Star State
20 Painful reality
that one doesn’t
want to face
23 Bite-sized fish
dish
24 Bond creator
Fleming
25 “I thought so!”28 Close enough to
share intimatesecrets
33 Didn’t toss out34 Vigilant35 2015 award for
Steph Curry
39 Have a craving
(for)
42 Crucifix letters43 Skin irritations45 Slips that
promise payment
47 Features of many
mountain roads
53 Walk-__: small
roles
54 British ref. work55 March b-ball
tourneys,casually
57 1984 #1 hit for
Cyndi Lauper
62 Nest sound64 Start to type?65 Chaney of horror
films
66 Tapered boat67 Five minutes past
a quarter of
68 “Patience __
virtue”
69 Use up money70 Cook, as
mussels
71 Body art, briefly
... and, initially, ahint to thispuzzle’s fourlongest answersDOWN
1 Stimulates, as an
appetite
2 Basic training
command
3 “Good grief!”
4 London airport
5 “I __ the 
opinion ... ”
6 In __: unmoved
7 New law student
8 Went berserk9 Porky Pig’s
girlfriend
10 “Yeah, right!”11 Financial shelter12 Windy City “L”
operator: Abbr.
13 Stag party
attendees
21 23-Across tuna22 Cheering word
26 Münster mister
27 Italian wine region29 __ lime pie30 Big primate31 Laundry day
target
32 Quarterback
Manning
35 This, in Spain36 Scattered, as seed37 Uncorrupted
38 “Of course!”40 Angler’s pole
41 Cashew or
almond
44 Trod heavily46 Solarium48 Set eyes on
49 Responds well to
change
50 Sales slip: Abbr.
51 Stick the landing,
say
52 Stuffed Indian
pastry56 Parisian political
body
58 Get the creases
out of
59 Stew (over)60 “When you hear
the __, please
leave your
message”
61 Jazzy James
62 Emails a dupe to
63 WWII General __
Arnold
By Mark McClain and Andrea Carla Michaels©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/15/1608/15/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, August 15, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted
22   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
ARE YOU A SPORTS FAN? GET PAID
to promote a NEW LIVE Sports App
created by the makers of Madden
Football! GO TO:
www.letsplaysportsgames.com
8-24-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE     8-15-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305      8-15-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 
minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHERGet FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM 888-242- 2649     8-15-1-15
DIVORCE $50 to $240*“MONEY BACK GUARANTEE”Covers Children, PropertyUnlocatable Spouses, Name Changes, etc.*Excludes govt feesCall 1-888- 498-7075, Ext 100BUDGET LAW, established 1973     8-15-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16WATER TREATMENT TECHNICIAN5 Years experience & clean driving record required. Salary + Benefits.Local family owned business for over 30years!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com     8-25-16-5-14
ADMIN/MARKETING ASSISTANTFast growing family business seeking full time professional. Salary commensurate with experience. Full benefits available.resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
EXPERIENCED  ADMIN. ASSISTANT
Part Time & Flexible Hours! Microsoft Office 
& Outlook required.  Join our team!
resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-
16-5-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services
1. ADVERTISING: The character 
of Elsie promoted which company’s 
brands?
2. ANATOMY: What human organ 
contains special cell clusters called the 
islets of Langerhans?
3. MOVIES: What famous singer 
joined Mel Gibson as stars in the mov-ie “Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome”?
4. RELIGION: In what country is the 
Shinto religion based?
5. HISTORY: When did the Suez 
Canal open to navigation?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of British Columbia?
7. AUTOMOBILES: Which car 
company produces the Accord and the Civic?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: The llama 
belongs in the same family as what other type of animal?
9. LITERATURE: Where was the 
novel “Anne of Green Gables” set?
10. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: 
Which 19th-century American poet wrote the line, “A little madness in the spring is wholesome even for the king”? 
Answers
1. The Borden Dairy Co.2. Pancreas
3. Tina Turner
4. Japan5. 18696. Victoria7. Honda8. Camel, also in the Camelidae family9. Prince Edward Island10. Emily Dickinson
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 15, 2016 King Features Weekly ServiceNEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   23 
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
19 Connections 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida volleyball season preview
UF's volleyball team returns stars Rhamat Alhassan and Alex Holston and 
brings in a talented freshmen class. Read the story on pg. 29.Florida punter Johnny 
T ownsend  leads a UF special-
teams unit that figures to be one 
of the best in the country.
Read the story on pg. 30. By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The biggest difference was the weather.
Back at Purdue, a college located in West 
Lafayette, Indiana, Austin Appleby would 
walk outside and see snow.
Snow covered the buildings, the ground 
and the footballs, especially in March and es -
pecially during the spring, a time when roster 
spots are unsolidified and hope runs rampant.
But this March, Appleby was standing 
inside Florida’s indoor practice facility on a 
sweltering day. The differences, he said, were 
palpable.
And it wasn't just the weather.
“There’s an unbelievable opportunity 
here,” Appleby says.
Opportunity?
“Well, the obvious,” Appleby continued. 
“There’s obviously a lot of quarterback issues.”
For Appleby, the biggest issue is Luke Del 
Rio — the son of Oakland Raiders head coach 
Jack Del Rio — who finds himself competing 
for the starting job at Florida after spending 
one season each at Alabama and Oregon State.
For Del Rio, the biggest obstacle is Appleby, 
a graduate transfer who has 11 college starts 
playing in the Big 10. 
And for Florida, the issue is uncertainty af -
ter six seasons of instability. Since 2010, the 
Gators have started seven different quarter -
backs and have seen seven quarterbacks trans -
fer from the school: Treon Harris, Will Grier, 
Jeff Driskel, Skyler Mornhinweg, Max Staver, 
Tyler Murphy and Jacoby Brissett.
Now, heading into its second season under 
coach Jim McElwain, Florida’s quarterback po -
sition is still in question.
For a program with a recent history of high 
quarterback turnover, stability behind center is 
far from a sure thing.
So why did Appleby and Del Rio — both 
transfers — come to a school with such uncer -
tainty at their position?“(The weather) is one thing, but it’s just the 
expectation that this team is expecting to win a 
championship,” Appleby said.
And then he paused, as if to correct himself.
“Championships ,” Appleby finished.
•   •   •
After the football had been tossed around, 
banged up, rolled in sweat and flung into the 
dirt during a 1994 Vikings game, it was given 
to a baby in a hospital bed, somewhere in Min -
nesota.
It still makes Del Rio smile.
“(My dad) made the Pro Bowl that year,” 
he said.
Del Rio’s father was an NFL linebacker for 
11 years, four of which were spent with the 
Vikings. After a win during the 1994 season, 
Jack Del Rio gave the game ball to his newly 
born son after the final seconds ticked off the 
game clock.
Now Jack is the head coach of the Oak -land Raiders, 2,773 miles from where his son 
is competing to be the starting quarterback for 
the Florida Gators.
“I grew up around the game,” Del Rio said. 
“So I’ve been around the game a lot. I’ve just 
kind of observed it growing up, doing the best 
I can to pick people’s brains.”
Del Rio was surrounded by football during 
his youth, eventually being ranked ESPN’s No. 
1-rated passer in Colorado coming out of high 
school.
His first offer?
That was from McElwain, then the head 
coach at Colorado State. 
Del Rio turned him down.
“He understood it. I’m a competitor. I 
wanted to play with the best of the best,” Del 
Rio said. “I played my senior year in Colorado 
and I enjoyed it, but I was ready for something 
new.”
So he enrolled at Alabama and joined the 
football team as a walk-on, serving as the 
third-string quarterback behind AJ McCarron 
and Blake Sims for the 2013 season.Searching for more playing time, he trans -
ferred to Oregon State in 2014 and became the 
backup, playing in just three games.
But still, Del Rio wasn’t satisfied. 
He made some phone calls, eventually 
talking with Doug Nussmeier, who was just 
named the offensive coordinator at Florida by 
McElwain. Del Rio transferred to UF soon after.
And now, after sitting out a year. learning 
McElwain’s offense and watching the Treon 
Harris and Will Grier sagas unfold, Del Rio be -
lieves he finally has a chance to be a starting 
quarterback.
And his tenure as a Gator couldn’t have be -
gun much better.
His first pass in a Florida uniform fell into 
the hands of CJ Worton for a 46-yard comple -
tion in Florida's annual Spring game on April 
8.
His second pass was a completion to tight 
end DeAndre Goolsby for 14 yards. Touch -
down.
And while McElwain didn’t officially an -
nounce a starter after the Orange and Blue de -
but, he strongly hinted that Del Rio was ahead, 
saying he had a leg up on the quarterback 
competition because of his familiarity with the 
system.
“Luke, I felt, did a good job of letting the 
game come to him,” coach Jim McElwain said 
after the Spring scrimmage. “It’s amazing what 
happens when you throw it to the open guy.”
Del Rio’s statline: 10-for-11, 176 yards, two 
touchdowns.
And yet, three months later, locked in a 
tight competition with Appleby for the start -
ing position, there has been no more evidence 
that Del Rio has separated himself in the battle 
under center.
McElwain has refused to give a timetable on 
announcing a starter, consistently stating that 
Appleby and Del Rio have been about equal.
And even for a player who performed so 
well in the Spring game, Del Rio hears the MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Austin Appleby Luke Del Rio
FOOTBALL
Uncertainty under center: Del Rio, Appleby fighting for starting job
FLORIDA HAS SEVERAL ROSTER 
SPOTS OPEN FOR COMPETITION.
By Ian Cohen 
and Ethan Bauer
Sports Writers
With preseason camp officially underway, 
alligatorSports Editors Ian Cohen and Ethan 
Bauer take a look at Florida football’s four of -
fensive position groups — quarterbacks, run -
ning backs, receivers/tight ends and the offen -
sive line — and provide analysis from the first 
two weeks of practice. Let’s start with the one 
you want to hear about the most:
Quarterbacks
Player to Watch: Luke Del Rio.  While 
nothing has officially been announced yet, Florida coaches have hinted that Del Rio has 
a slight edge in the quarterback battle because 
of his familiarity with the system — Del Rio 
transferred to Florida before the start of last 
season and spent the entire year practicing 
due to NCAA transfer rules.
Under the radar: Kyle Trask.  He didn’t 
even start at his own high school, and yet UF 
coaches are excited about what the freshman 
will turn into a couple years down the road. 
Players are impressed with his arm strength 
and his height (he’s 6-foot-4). He’ll likely sit 
out this season.
Quote: “There’s obviously a lot of quarter -
back issues (here),” — Austin Appleby
Analysis:  Florida’s quarterback situation 
starts off simple, but the further you look, the 
more complicated it becomes.Breaking down UF's offenseSWEET AND BAUER
It’s 3 a.m. and your phone 
rings. Struggling to shake 
the crust from your eyes, 
you wonder who it could be. 
And then it smacks you like 
cold water to the face. 
It’s your daughter. 
You answer and hear crying 
on the other end. After a few 
minutes of unsuccessfully trying 
to calm her down, you under -
stand what the crying is about. 
Your daughter tells you she was sexual -
ly assaulted. She also tells you this person 
is a football player. 
Sadness comes first. How could some -
one do this to your daughter, the very pic -ture of perfection in your eyes?
Then comes anger. 
You want justice. You want 
this person to be held account -
able for his actions. However, 
your daughter doesn’t want to 
take it to the police. She doesn’t 
want every graphic detail about 
one of the worst moments of her 
life to become public record. 
Instead, she decides to take 
it to the school’s Title IX office, claiming 
that the assault violates the student code 
of conduct. And when it comes to Title IX 
investigations, every detail is kept private. 
Good, you think. This guy will be dealt The problem with football and sexual assault
Ethan Bauer
ebauer@alligator.orgSEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 26
SEE OFFENSE,  PAGE 25 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 27NEW STUDENT EDITIONNEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   25
The simple part: UF’s QB group 
is split into two tiers. In the first tier 
are Luke Del Rio and Austin Apple -
by, both of whom are competing for 
the starting job. In the second tier 
are freshmen Kyle Trask and Feleipe 
Franks, who have almost no chance 
at running the first-team offense un -
less the Gators are decimated by in -
juries.
The complicated part: Del Rio 
and Appleby seem to be dead even 
in the race. No players are willing to 
state that one has a clear advantage 
over the other, and the coaches are 
just as unsure of who will be Flori -
da’s starter on Sept. 3.
“I do know this,” UF coach Jim 
McElwain said. “We've got some 
depth at the position, and I'm really 
excited about that.”
The quarterback battle is the most 
intriguing of Fall camp, and until 
McElwain names a starter, the ques -
tion will continue to linger around 
the team like a salty ex-girlfriend. 
Running backs
Player to watch: Mark Thomp -
son. He’s big and he’s oozing con -
fidence. It’ll be interesting to see 
how the junior college transfer fares 
against SEC defenses. 
Under the radar: Mark Hern -
don, Lamical Perine.  Both players 
won’t see the field much, but Perine 
(5-foot-11, 221 pounds) brings size 
to the position while redshirt senior 
Herndon brings experience and ca -
pable legs off the bench. Quote: “If someone comes at me, 
nine times out of 10 I’m gonna think 
in my head that I’m gonna win. Ac -
tually, 10 times out of 10,” — Mark 
Thompson
Analysis: Legendary sportswrit -
er Grantland Rice is perhaps best 
known for his characterization of the 
1924 Notre Dame backfield as “the 
four horsemen.” 
“In dramatic lore,” he wrote, “they are known as Famine, Pesti -
lence, Destruction and Death. These 
are only aliases. Their real names 
are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and 
Layden.”
Florida may have its own stable 
of horsemen in the backfield this 
year, and their names are Cronkrite, 
Scarlett, Thompson and Herndon. 
Following the loss of last season’s 
flagship rusher Kelvin Taylor to the NFL, Florida will turn to its four-
headed monster to fill the produc -
tion void. 
The most talked about of the four 
is Thompson, a junior college trans -
fer. The Le Mott, Pennsylvania na -
tive is built in the mold of Alabama 
Heisman winner Derrick Henry, 
measuring 6-foot-2 and weighing in 
at 237 pounds. 
But his physical size pales in comparison to the size of his con -
fidence — he claims that he’ll rush 
for 1,000 years before Florida’s bye 
week, the eighth week of the season. 
While Thompson will see the 
field plenty, another player likely to 
help fill the void is Jordan Cronkrite, 
a 5-foot-11, 204-pound sophomore 
from Miami. 
“Even though he’s not the big -
gest, he’s one of the more physical 
ones,” linebacker Alex Anzalone 
said of Cronkrite. “They’re all really 
physical, they’re running really hard 
and we’ll see what happens in camp. 
It should be a good competition to 
see who gets the starting job and 
who contributes.”
Scarlett will also be in the mix for 
serious playing time, while redshirt 
senior Mark Herndon could contrib -
ute in spots. 
Meanwhile, true freshman Lami -
cal Perine, the forgotten horseman, 
is likely to redshirt due to the posi -
tion’s depth or be relegated to a role 
on special teams. 
Wide receivers/tight ends
Player to watch: Tyrie Cleve -
land.  BB gun incident aside (Cleve -
land and teammate Rick Wells were 
arrested in July for firing a BB gun 
at a UF residence hall), Cleveland 
was a huge steal for the Gators in the 
2016 recruiting class. Ranked as the 
No. 2 receiver in the country by the 
247Sports composite, Cleveland’s 
6-foot-2 frame gives him the po -
tential to equal Antonio Callaway’s 
freshman success  
Continue reading this story online 
at alligator.org/sportsOFFENSE,  from pg 24McElwain said the running backs are UF 's strongest group
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Jordan Cronkrite (32) takes a break from Florida's Spring practice while running backs coach Tim 
Skipper (middle) watches Mark Thompson (24) run drills on March 30 at the Sanders Practice Fields.
26   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016  •  NEW STUDENT EDITION
chatter. Why should a player who 
couldn’t even earn the starting job at 
Oregon State win the job at Florida?
“It always kind of lights a fire un -
der you when people don’t believe 
in you. And I think as a competitor, 
you get excited when somebody has 
doubts about your abilities,” Del Rio 
said. “So I’m excited.”
•   •   •
Through four years at Purdue, 
Austin Appleby was largely an after -
thought.
He appeared in no games his 
freshman year, played in two games 
his sophomore year, started seven 
games his junior year and four his 
senior year. He threw 19 touch -
downs and 19 interceptions.
And then he graduated. But he 
still wanted to play, and Florida 
needed a quarterback.
Appleby reached out to former 
NFL quarterback Trent Dilfer — a 
friend and a mentor — for advice.
Dilfer urged him toward Florida, 
which had a vacancy under center.
“Go be a dreamer,” Appleby re -
called Dilfer telling  him. “Go all in.”
So he did.
“There’s an opportunity to come 
in here and compete to be the guy,” 
Appleby said. “That’s an opportu -
nity that’s hard to pass up.”
Appleby’s situation is unique. 
He’s clearly the most battle-tested quarterback on Florida’s roster from 
playing in the Big 10 for each of the 
past three seasons, which has talent 
that compares to the SEC.
“I think what I bring to the team 
is a level of experience,” Appleby 
said. “Once you’re out there and it’s 
live and you’re in front of 100,000, 
there’s no pretending.
“I understand what it takes to 
prepare, I understand what it is to be 
under the lights, I understand what it 
is to stand in there.”
And yet, Appleby understands, 
there is no guaranteed spot for him 
on Florida’s first-string offense.
McElwain and UF’s coaching staff 
pitted him against Del Rio in the Or -
ange and Blue Debut, and Appleby 
played well. He completed 8-of-11 
passes for 80 yards without a  touch -
down.
“I didn’t want to come out here 
and throw the bombs or try to make 
plays that weren’t there,” Appleby 
said after the game. “But there’s defi -
nitely a lot of work to get done, to get 
corrected and I’m excited about this 
summer.”
Appleby has taken both first- and 
second-team reps under center since 
the start of preseason practice on Au -
gust 4.
And while he and Del Rio have 
been largely equal so far, one notice -
able difference between the quarter -
backs sticks out
“Probably just their height,” run -
ning back Jordan Cronkrite said.
Del Rio is 6-foot-1. Appleby is 
6-foot-4. Three inches makes a dif -
ference when standing behind Flori -da’s offensive line, especially among 
the running backs, who all figure to 
be a larger part of UF’s passing game 
under offensive coordinator Doug 
Nussmeier.
“Austin has a great arm. He can 
read the field very well,” running 
back Mark Thompson said. “It’s 
going to be interesting to see who 
comes out the starter.”
•   •   •
When the question is asked, their 
faces are usually unsure, not with 
dishonesty or deceit but with genu -
ine curioisty.
While the consensus among UF players is that Del Rio and Appleby 
are the two most likely candidates 
for the job, most can’t distinguish 
which has a leg up on the other.
But if you had to guess, it would 
be Del Rio, right?
“Not really,” cornerback Teez 
Tabor said. “All of them are really 
talented guys, and all of them have 
something different.”
So, they’re even?
“Honestly, looking at all of them, 
they all come with something differ -
ent,” defensive back Marcell Harris 
said. “At the end of the day, they’re 
all doing a pretty good job.”
Then what’s the difference be -
tween the two?“Both are looking good right 
now,” Duke Dawson said. “You 
can't just point out one guy.”
The common theme surrounding 
Florida’s quarterback position: un -
certainty. 
The players don’t know, and the 
coaches seem to still be gauging each 
player's strengths as well.
McElwain has yet to name a sig -
nal caller who has one-upped the 
other, especially through just over 
one week of preseason practice, and 
especially after such a limited time in 
full pads.
“Let’s face it,” McElwain said af -
ter UF’s first two days of Fall practice 
on Aug. 5, “you’re in underwear and 
helmets. It’s different.”
But with Florida's season-open -
ing game on Sept. 3 approaching, the 
coaches have less than a month to 
make a decision on whether to name 
a starter or split time between the 
two quarterbacks.
And, two weeks into preseason 
camp, that decision is just as unclear 
as it was after UF’s Spring game in 
April.
But that isn’t deterring Del Rio 
and Appleby.
“We have a chance to be part of 
something extremely special, and we 
have an opportunity to compete to 
be the starting quarterback for the 
Florida Gators and go win a champi -
onship,” Appleby said. 
“That’s always been my dream, 
and I’m going after it.” 
          
            @icohenb 
         icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 24Players praise both Del Rio and Appleby, but no clear favorite
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
The spotlight is on Luke Del Rio, the son of Oakland Raiders head 
coach Jack Del Rio, to win the starting quarterback  job at Florida.
1
1312111098765432
SMALL TOWN CHARM      
EXPLORE HISTORIC MICANOPY
75
75
75Gainesville
ArcherRd.
WillistonRd.
13th
St./441Paynes
Prairie
MicanopyExit 374
Open everyday 10-6
espresso bar, pastries, 
and ice cream
(352)466-5002
JUST MINUTES FROM UF     NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   27
with appropriately. 
Then it comes time for the 
hearing, which decides whether 
someone did, in fact, violate the 
student code of conduct. 
The way these hearings usually 
work is by assembling a commit -
tee of trained students and faculty 
members who make the decision. 
However, if either the accuser or 
the accused doesn’t want this op -
tion, then the university is respon -
sible for selecting a hearing officer to replace the committee. This can 
be a qualified professional within 
or outside the university.
Good, you think again. They’ll 
pick the best person for the job. 
Then you find out a former ath -
lete from the school who spends 
thousands of dollars every year to 
attend the school’s football games 
will decide whether the player 
who allegedly assaulted your 
daughter is guilty. 
Suddenly, you’re back to an -
ger. 
And you’d have every reason to be downright enraged. 
Stop imagining. You don’t need 
to, because that cavernous feeling 
in your stomach is exactly what 
the parents of Antonio Callaway’s 
accuser likely felt when this hap -
pened to them. 
Last Friday, it was revealed in a 
letter sent from Callaway's accus -
er’s lawyer to ESPN that UF had 
appointed Jake Schickel, a lawyer 
and UF football booster from Jack -
sonville, as the hearing officer for 
Callaway’s case. 
For background, Jim McElwain announced Callaway’s suspension 
from the team in March. It was 
later revealed it stemmed from 
an incident that occurred in early 
December and that Callaway was 
being accused of violating the UF 
student code of conduct by sexu -
ally assaulting a student. 
Before I go further, let me tell 
you what I’m not saying. 
I’m not saying Schickel can’t 
do his job unbiasedly. I’m sure 
he’s a very qualified professional 
who’s professionally objective. 
I’m also not saying that Calla -way — or football players or any -
one else — is guilty based on an 
accusation. All I’m saying is that if 
your child told you this happened, 
you’d want UF to look into the 
facts fairly. 
So with those clarification out 
of the way, now I want you to 
imagine again. 
Imagine that’s the response 
you get when your daughter is 
accusing a football player of sexu -
ally assaulting her. 
Continue reading this column 
online at alligator.org/sports.COLUMN,  from pg 24'If you're a parent … pray that you never get that 3 a.m. phone call '
28   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
SOCCER
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
As time expired at Dizney Sta -
dium, UF coach Becky Burleigh 
watched her team, the 2015 South -
eastern Conference Tournament 
champs, fall to Duke University in 
the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tourna -
ment Championship. 
She saw her team’s three seniors, 
Claire Falknor, Christen Westphal 
and Lauren Smith, who led their 
younger teammates all season, walk 
off the field in their last collegiate 
soccer game.
She also saw her 21st season as 
the head coach of Florida come to a 
disappointing end.
But Burleigh would be the first 
person to tell you the Gators’ 19 wins 
in 2015 weren’t for nothing. Rather, 
they were a stepping stone for her 
players and the future of the pro -
gram.
“It’s always tough to end the sea -
son, it never gets any easier,” Bur -leigh said in a release after the game 
on Nov. 22. “I know it’s really easy to 
just look at it as an ending of a sea -
son, but for me I look at the progress 
that this team made throughout the 
course of the year.”
Now, nearly nine months later, 
the No. 7 Gators are ready to make 
their way back to the NCAA Tour -
nament and prove they are talented 
enough to win their first NCAA Na -
tional Championship since 1998.
The 2016 team will feature 15 
new faces, with 13 freshmen and 
two transfer students, Erika Nelson 
and Parker Roberts. 
Roberts, a sophomore transfer 
from Kansas, is a member of the U.S. 
Under-20 national team. 
Nelson is a redshirt senior who 
graduated from Maryland in the 
spring who will play her fifth and fi -
nal year of eligibility with the Gators. 
She was a medical redshirt last 
season.
“Erika brings a ton of experi -
ence as a fifth-year senior, as she’s faced some of the nation’s top teams 
throughout her collegiate career,” 
Burleigh said in a May 10 release. 
“Parker’s play with the U.S. U20 team will definitely benefit the Gators.”
UF’s 2016 team also includes three 
Gators — seniors Meggie Dougherty 
Howard and Savannah Jordan and redshirt junior Gabby Seiler — who 
are on the Missouri Athletic Club’s 
(MAC) Hermann Trophy Watch List, 
collegiate soccer’s most prestigious 
individual award.
Howard, a member of the U.S. 
Under-23 roster, had eight assists 
last season and was a part of the 
All-Southeastern Conference Second 
Team. Jordan, the SEC Offensive 
Player of the Year, was a semi-finalist 
for the Hermann Trophy in 2015. 
She had 24 goals and 55 points 
last season, ranking second in the 
NCAA standings.
Seiler, who didn’t play in 2015 
after transferring from the University 
of Georgia, had nine goals and nine 
assists in 2014 and was apart of the 
All-SEC first team.
Those three will help lead the 
team when regular-season play be -
gins in Gainesville on Friday, Aug. 19 
against Iowa State.
            @lstaff27
Lstaff@alligator.orgSeason preview: After tourney loss, UF primed for big year
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida players celebrate after scoring a goal during UF’s 3-2 win 
over Florida State on Aug. 30.
NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   29
VOLLEYBALL
By Alejandro López 
and Ray Boone
Sports Writers
At face value, Florida’s volley -
ball team had an off year in 2015.
The squad accrued its lowest 
winning percentage since 1990, 
losing more conference match -
es than any other group since 
that same year. Making it to the 
NCAA Tournament quarterfinals, 
the Gators dropped a five-set tilt 
against eventual finalist Texas. An 
elusive Final Four bid once again 
slipped its grasp — Florida hasn’t 
reached the semis since 2003.
Add numbers into the mix, 
though, and a different picture is painted. 
The Gators booked a spot in the 
NCAA Tournament for their 25th 
consecutive season — the fourth-
longest active streak in the coun -
try. 
As for its sub-par regular season 
— the team’s 22-6 pre-tournament 
record secured it a spot on the final 
AVCA Coaches Poll (16th), while 
a 13-5 conference mark proved 
good enough to finish fourth in the 
Southeastern Conference.
Minor victories aside, though, 
there’s no denying it.
Last season was a struggle.
But, there is hope for 2016.
The 2015 roster featured a bevy 
of individual talent.
And although five seniors de -parted, Florida’s talent is not in 
short supply.
And at the head of that talent 
stands middle blocker Rhamat Al -
hassan.
All 6-foot-4 inches of her.
Alhassan, who was named a 
First Team All-American in De -
cember, was the anchor of the 
Gators’ defense.
The junior was second in the 
nation in total blocks (189) and is 
currently second in Florida’s ca -
reer record book for blocks per set 
(1.47). 
In addition, Alhassan’s out -
standing play didn’t begin and end 
with her defense.
She could score, too.
Alhassan led the Gators in points (485.5) and was second on 
the team in kills (371). Her .422 
hitting percentage was also among 
the country’s best, ranked at No. 9. 
Florida also returns Third Team 
All-American Alex Holston.
Last season, the then-junior 
right side hitter led the team in 
kills (381) and kills per set (3.26) 
and was second on the team in 
points (438.5).
Although Alhassan and Holston 
are the clear leaders of this team, 
they won’t be alone. 
Rising junior outside hitter Car -
li Snyder had a solid sophomore 
season where she was fourth on 
the team in points (283) and kills 
(247). 
The Gators also managed to ink an incredibly talented incom -
ing freshman class. All six Gators 
who signed NLIs in the Fall signing 
period were named to Volleyball 
Magazine’s Fab 50 list, including 
6-foot-8 middle blocker Rachael 
Kramer.
The Gators have the talent to 
rebound from last season.
They’ll have their chance on 
Aug. 26 when they face Nebraska, 
the 2015 National Champions, in 
Eugene, Oregon, during their first 
match of the season. 
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org
@rboone8461
rboone@alligator.orgSeason Preview: UF has talent to rebound from down year
  352-872-5677
3225 SW 35th Blvd.No gimmicks,
just great frames 
Take The Day
to DISCO VER…
Stay 
connected.
PLAZA     NO RTH    TOWN CENTE R30   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION  
FOOTBALL
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
As far as consistency was con -
cerned for the Florida Gators last 
season, UF coach Jim McElwain 
needed to look no further than 
Johnny Townsend.
Each time the offense stuttered 
— whether because the opposing 
defense was dominant or the of -
fense just couldn’t get going — the 
6-foot-1 punter with a powerful 
right leg seemingly always came to 
the rescue.
Expect more of the same this 
year from the Ray Guy semifinalist 
and second team All-Southeastern 
Conference member.
“He’s a guy that this team really 
likes, this team trusts,” McElwain 
said.
 “And our team is starting to un -
derstand the value of those spots 
and not just taking it for granted.”
Last year, Townsend ranked 
10th nationally in average yards per 
punt (45.36 yards). 
Of his 83 punts — the most in 
the SEC and fifth-most in the coun -
try — 29 went at least 50 yards, 30 
pinned opponents inside their 20-
yard line and just five landed in the 
end zone for a touchback.
“Sometimes those guys, you 
don’t give them enough credit 
for how they change the game,” McElwain said. 
“And him understanding the 
game is probably what I’m most 
impressed about from that position. 
... Even if you’ve just got to punt it 
30 (yards), pin them inside the ten, forcing them to go long yardage is 
huge.”
Townsend, however, isn’t the 
only Florida special teams player 
receiving a lot of hype heading 
into the Sept. 3 opener against Massachusetts.
His placekicking partner Eddy 
Pineiro is giving Florida fans hope 
for a successful kicking game after 
three erratic seasons from Austin 
Hardin.Pineiro, a junior college trans -
fer from Miami and former soccer 
standout, came to UF as the top-
ranked kicking prospect despite 
him never attempting a field goal 
in a game where the score actually 
mattered.
“I don’t want to sit here and put 
all these high expectations on him,” 
McElwain said. 
“I mean, the guy hasn’t kicked in 
a game yet and yet all of a sudden, 
we’re ready to say this guy is the 
Golden Toe Award or whatever.”
Despite this, Pineiro showed 
off his potential in Florida’s Spring 
game, making three of his five field 
goal attempts — all of which were 
from at least 46 yards — and show -
casing a booming leg on kickoffs.
“I mean, he was rated a great 
kicker and obviously through the 
kicking camp guys, he’s a name 
that constantly came up,” McEl -
wain said. 
“So we knew our need for the 
position and obviously targeted him 
as that guy. And you know, I’m ex -
cited he chose us. I’m excited to see 
him grow as a kicker, as well. … I 
do know this: He has the talent to 
do it, and I love the way he goes 
about his work.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgTownsend, Pineiro headline UF’s new-look special teams
Emily Cochrane / Alligator 
Johnny T ownsend, Florida’s punter, signs Thierry Pitot’s chest after the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut 
in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on April 8.
䴀愀欀攀 礀漀甀爀 洀漀渀攀礀 氀椀昀攀 攀愀猀椀攀爀 琀栀爀漀甀最栀 䘀䌀唀℀ 圀 攀ᤠ瘀攀 最漀琀 
挀漀渀瘀攀渀椀攀渀琀 瀀爀漀搀甀挀琀猀 氀椀欀 攀 吀漀琀愀氀氀礀 䘀爀攀攀 䌀栀攀挀欀椀渀最 
⠀渀漀 昀攀攀猀℀⤀ ☀ 攀䌀爀攀搀椀琀 琀栀愀琀 愀爀攀 攀愀猀礀 琀漀 愀挀挀攀猀猀 愀渀搀 
洀愀渀愀最攀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 ⸀ 倀氀甀猀Ⰰ 礀漀甀 挀愀渀 琀愀欀 攀 礀漀甀爀 愀挀挀漀甀渀琀 眀椀琀栀 
礀漀甀 愀昀琀攀爀 挀漀氀氀攀最攀 愀渀搀 欀 攀攀瀀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀 爀甀渀渀椀渀最 
猀洀漀漀琀栀氀礀 Ⰰ 渀漀 洀愀琀琀攀爀 眀栀攀爀攀 礀漀甀 最漀 ⸀
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 
嘀椀猀椀琀 甀猀 漀渀氀椀渀攀 漀爀 椀渀 礀漀甀爀 氀漀挀愀氀 戀爀愀渀挀栀 琀漀 ǻ渀搀 漀甀琀 栀漀眀 
䘀氀漀爀椀搀愀 䌀爀攀搀椀琀 唀渀椀漀渀 挀愀渀 栀攀氀瀀 礀漀甀℀ 
䬀攀攀瀀椀渀最 甀瀀 眀椀琀栀 礀漀甀
愀渀搀 礀漀甀爀 ǻ渀愀渀挀攀猀⸀ 
㌀ 䜀愀椀渀攀猀瘀椀氀氀攀 䈀爀愀渀挀栀攀猀     
䘀攀搀攀爀愀氀氀礀 椀渀猀甀爀攀搀 戀礀 琀栀攀 一䌀唀 䄀⸀ 
NEW STUDENT EDITION  • MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016   ALLIGATOR   31
32   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, AUGUST 15, 2016 •  NEW STUDENT EDITION
