We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 24 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
Florida to play Tennessee Saturday
Receiver Ahmad Fulwood and UF’s offense are 
hoping to perform without quarterback Luke Del Rio, pg. 14
Exams, not sex: UT sign causes complaints
The sign pokes fun at the T ennessee quarterback, pg. 4
UF student hoping to hug his way to record
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg. 5‘I’m tired of the dialogue’
GNV residents discuss recent events inthe black community, pg. 3
Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Under dim lighting, Nick Caval-
laro takes out his Urban Decay eye-
shadow palette.
He carefully paints on color for his signature, glitter cut-crease eye look — brown and gold are his fa-vorite shades — before he slips into his hand-sewn leotard, stealing glimpses of himself in the mirror.
His look isn’t complete until the 
23-year-old throws on a long, volup-tuous wig and draws a beauty mark on his upper-right cheek. 
He struts down the hall in 4-inch-
high heels to a crowd of dozens be-hind Maude’s Side Car Bar, ready to perform.
But when Cavallaro reveals his two-hour transformation just before the two-hour show, he introduces himself as Nicki Mirage, a ﬁ  erce plus-sized drag queen.  
Cavallaro, a UF biological engi-
neering masters student, is comfort-able sharing both his real and drag name with anyone who asks. Despite 
the stigma he and the other perform-
ers still face because of their female personas, he said it’s an opportunity to rebel against society’s problem-atic gender and sexuality ideals that trapped Cavallaro for most of his life. 
“I just spent so many years be-
ing closed off,” Cavallaro said. “I just feel like it’s time to be open with myself.”
•   •   •BREAKING BIAS 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Nicki Mirage ends a show with a performance to “I’m Out” by Ciara ft. Nicki Minaj. Outside of Downtown Drag, Nicki Mirage is Nick Cavallaro, a UF biological engineering 
masters student. “I’m like a mirage, ” he said later. “From a distance I look like a beautiful woman, but up close I’m just a man. ” 
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
101 Cantina ﬁ  led Tuesday to 
countersue the property owner try-
ing to evict the Midtown restaurant and bar.
In the suit, Cantina alleged it lost 
business due to a sexual battery that the property owner, Pauzel LLC, failed to respond to by not provid-ing adequate security, according to court documents.
Cantina is asking for $180,000 
in damages, according to the docu-ments.
During the July 21 incident, 
which occurred behind the restau-rant, Christopher L. Shaw, then 34, led a woman behind a dumpster 
and sexually assaulted her, accord-
ing to Alligator archives. A Cantina employee and UF football player lat-er noticed the incident and stopped 
Shaw, who was later arrested.
Elsewhere in the countersuit, 
Cantina denied entering into a 
monthly contract with Trimark Properties LLC, an agent of Pauzel, according to the documents. It also disputed against having a month-to-
month lease that expired Aug. 31 
and the notion that it owed Trimark double rent for staying past when Trimark claims their lease ended.
Cantina also demanded a trial by 
jury, according to the documents. 
Prior to ﬁ  ling the countersuit, 
Cantina ﬁ  led a motion to reject the eviction, claiming that the original notice was improperly served to an employee and not a member of the 
business, according to the docu-
ments. In its response, Trimark Proper-
ties said the registered agents’ ad-
dress was a UPS store, according to 
the documents. 
Pauzel’s lawyer declined to com-
ment, and Alex Thomas, a partner of Cantina, did not respond to re-quests for comment. 
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
101 Cantina ﬁ  les countersuit for damages after eviction noticeSEE DRAG,  PAGE 9A drag queen’s balance between school and stage  Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
LGBTQ+ UF student lunch se-
ries
LGBT Affairs of UF Multicultural and Diversity Affairs is putting on a lunch series (with food 
provided) today from 12 p.m. to 
1 p.m. in the Rainbow Suite, lo-cated on the Reitz Union second floor, Room 2210. This event is for students who are new to UF and identify as LGBTQ+ to dis-cuss and learn about the variety of resources available to them on campus.
UF to debut new play
The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “The New Mrs. Tesman,” a fresh interpretation of Henrik Ibsen’s classic drama “Hedda Gabler.” Adapted and directed by professor Michael “Mikell” Pinkney, the play is 
set in the Canadian capital 
of Ottawa. Hedda Gabler is a member of the country’s “vis-ible minority” dealing with the expectations set upon her as the daughter of Canada’s first black member of the Parliament of Canada in the late 1950s. The plot follows Ibsen’s play while 
investigating psychological is-
sues associated with class, eth-nicity, and gender and identity politics. Performances will be held in the Black Box Theatre in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion from tonight to Oct. 2. Tonight, Saturday and Oct. 1, performances begin at 
7:30 p.m. On Sunday and Oct. 2, 
they begin at 2 p.m. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information can be found at arts.ufl.edu.
Climb for Cancer Rock Climbing 
CompetitionCome join PediaGators on 
Sunday from 9 a.m to 3 p.m. at 
the Sun Country Sports Center for a full day of family fun, food and philanthropy as we hold our first-ever Take Flight for Climb for Cancer rock climbing com-petition and free climb. Register to climb at cfc-foundation.org/TakeFlight for a chance to win 
prizes from Square 1 Burgers, 
YouFit Health Clubs, Barre Forte and more. If a rock climb-ing competition is too intimidat-ing, you can also pay $10 to $15 to use the wall all day. 
GatorWell Health Promotion 
Services Yes Means Yes
Yes Means Yes is a five-week 
student-run positive sexual-ity seminar that is running in partnership with UF Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and GatorWell. The objective is to create a space and opportunity for UF students to define consent, sexual assault and rape while also learning to think about and verbalize what a positive sexual experience 
means for them. Yes Means Yes 
will run each Monday from Oct. 10 to Nov. 7, have guest facili-tators each week and provide free food! Applications are due Oct. 3! Apply now at gatorwell.wufoo.com/forms/qybh6y60p-dkago.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 24
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
ABOUT 100 GAINESVILLE 
RESIDENTS GATHERED 
THURSDAY TO DISCUSS 
RECENT EVENTS IN THE 
BLACK COMMUNITY.
Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Christina Gladney wants change. 
“We are in a social war, and I am 
enraged,” the 28-year-old UF health 
behavior doctoral student said Thurs-
day night as a crowd gathered to dis-cuss the Black Lives Matter movement and recent events in the black commu-
nity. “I’m tired of the dialogue.”
About 100 people gathered at the 
Institute of Black Culture for an event 
hosted by the UF Black Graduate Student Organization at its monthly 
meeting. Recent shootings across the 
country had Gainesville residents de-manding answers from a panel. 
With shaking hands and tears in 
her eyes, Gladney described what it was like to be a black woman pulled over by police.
“How insulting it is,” she said, her 
voice trembling with anger, “to have a 
white man pull me over, in my black-
ness, and won’t give me my license until I look in his blue eyes.”  
One of the panelists, UF sociology 
doctoral student Micah E. Johnson, said the thought of the U.S. moving past race is a misunderstanding of the country’s culture.
“Racism is an American tradition,” 
the 31-year-old said. 
When discussing the recent Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin shooting, Johnson said for there to be racism, there has 
to be some element of greater control.
UF history professor Ibram Kendi, 
another panelist, agreed.
“You can’t be racist without pow-er,” she said. 
Kendi, a history professor, deﬁ  ned 
racism as any idea that suggests one group is superior or inferior to anoth-
er. He said leaders will listen to what people have to say, but they will ulti-mately pick and choose what it is they want to change.
“People in power always like when 
the powerless engage in dialogue,” he said.
University Police Chief Linda 
Stump-Kurnick disagreed.
“I think it’s making a good differ-
ence,” she said. “Agree or disagree, we’re not going to come together with-out dialogue.”
Stump-Kurnick then told a story 
about when she felt fear when being pulled over. She said she placed her hands on the wheel and told the of-ﬁ  cer about the gun in her car. The of-
ﬁ  cer recoiled and placed her hand on 
her weapon.
Raja Rahim, 26, said she was in-
sulted by Stump-Kurnick’s story. 
Black men have been killed by ofﬁ  cers 
for doing the same thing, she said. 
“It’s like a slap in the face to hear 
the story of what you walked away from,”  the UF history doctoral student 
said.  
Gladney said nothing will change 
until society begins to consider people 
over policies and programs. 
“What’s beautiful to me,” she said, 
“is when a perpetrator of racism tries to understand his behavior.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org‘I’m tired of the dialogue’
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff 
Brandon Armstrong, 25, explains how a lack of accountability in the police force has led to 
increasing violence against the black community. “We’re trying to better the problem, but what we want is accountability, ” the UF political science doctoral student said.
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff 
About 100 people attended a panel discussion hosted by the Black Graduate Student Organization on Thursday night at the Institute of Black Culture. 
“Racism is an American 
tradition.”
Micah E. Johnson
UF sociology doctoral student4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
By Gaby Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the past 20 years, Lee Ann 
Dodson has believed art has the 
power to heal.
A pioneer in UF’s Arts in Medi-
cine program, the Gainesville artist 
often spend her days sitting with pa-tients at UF Health Shands Hospital 
and helping them cope with their ail-ments through drawings and paint-
ings.
“Sometimes, it just turned out I 
sat and drew the patient,” Dodson 
said. “They liked that — they were often so sick that they didn’t want to 
do anything.”
Today, after a 10-year hiatus, 
Dodson will host her last Gainesville 
art exhibit before moving to Arkan-
sas to be closer to family. The free event will be at 6 p.m. at Thorn-
ebrook Gallery, located at 2441 NW 
43rd St., Suite 6D.
For Dodson, it’s her last chance to 
show off her work.•   •   •
In the lobby of Shands’ north 
complex stands a testament to Dod-
son’s legacy.
The “Healing Wall,” constructed 
in 1996, features thousands of color-ful tiles, each painted by patients, family members, staff members and 
friends.
The two large 9-foot panels are 
meant to give patients a sense of 
comfort. The wall was inspired by the death of a 15-year-old cancer pa-
tient named Michelle Channing.
When Channing left the hospital, 
she sent Dodson a painting of flow-
ers that sparked an idea.
“I saw attending physicians come 
in with med students and they talk-ed about patients — not with their 
names — but as a diagnosis,” Dod-
son said.  “I had this idea that they 
saw patients in one color, like a mo-
no-color.”
Dodson created a piece for UF 
entitled, “Michelle’s Flowers,” in which she painted Channing in four 
different ways using only mono col-ors.
Channing passed away months 
after she saw the painting.
Dodson was emotionally worn 
out after Michelle’s death but want-
ed to do more. That was when Dod-
son and her friend and colleague, UF nursing professor Mary Rockwood 
Lane, began creating the wall.
“She came to the program at a 
time when the program needed pio-
neers,” said Christina Mullen, the director of the Shands Arts in Medi-cine program. “She was one of those 
pioneers.”
After putting her paintbrush 
down to focus on her son, she re-cently began drawing again, she 
said, and as her life has gotten more 
complicated, so has her art. 
Her move back to her hometown 
in Arkansas inspired the show being held today. It will feature 50 of Dod-
son’s pieces.
“The arts are integral to the hu-
man experience, and I do believe that it’s intrinsic to the making of 
any kind or any type of art that it has 
a healing effect,” she said.GNV painter to hold farewell exhibit
Courtesy to the Alligator
Artist Lee Ann Dodson, right, poses for a photo with colleague Mary 
Rockwood Lane, a UF nursing professor, in front of the “Healing Wall, ” a collection of thousands of colored tiles painted by patients, staff members, family members and friends. The wall, located at UF Health Shands Hospital, was inspired by the death of Michelle Channing, a 15-year-old cancer patient.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
At apartment parking lots 
across Gainesville, police officers 
have been issuing vehicle security “report cards” to deter burglaries.
These blue pass-fail notices, 
posted underneath car windshield wipers, are meant to function as wake-up calls for residents who may have left their cars unlocked or who have left valuables in plain sight.
Although police find the ini-
tiative important for educating the public amid a burglary surge, 
some residents see it as a violation 
of privacy and a waste of public resources.
“A majority of folks that have 
received these understand what we’re doing,” said Gainesville Po-lice spokesman Officer Ben Tobias. 
“But we have heard some very 
vocal complaints, ones that were pretty accusatory of us, on social media.”
The program, which began 
about five years ago, has been sporadically used, he said. Officers visit apartment lots and other park-ing lots, checking up on a group of 
cars in the area.
Tobias said he is not aware of 
any other police department that 
has implemented a similar pro-gram.
Despite what some critics have 
alleged, Tobias said officers do not pull door handles. They look through the car window to see if 
the lock peg is up or down.
“We’re not going to commit a burglary ourselves just to get a 
point across about safety,” he said.
Tobias said residents should 
take solace in the fact that, of any-one who could be checking on their cars, it’s police officers.
But the report cards placed on 
cars may encourage burglaries, said Moe Farag, an Eastside High School junior who lives at The Laurels Apartments.
Instead of a potential burglars 
pulling on handles, a passersby can just take the flier and see if the car is unlocked or has any valu-ables inside of it before deciding to commit the crime.
Because of this, the report cards 
officers leave could lead to a bur-glary, the 16-year-old said.
“If you don’t have a good rea-
son, you could just stop doing it,” Farag said.
Dr. Yasser Samra, who works 
at UF Health Shands Hospital, said the program wastes officers’ time.
“If they don’t have anything 
better to do, then fine,” he said. “But they probably have some-thing better to do.”
Paul Ramdial, whose children 
attend UF and live at The Laurels Apartments, forgot to lock his car 
Wednesday night while visiting his 
son and daughter at the complex.
He said he understands criti-
cisms of the program, but he thinks police are just trying to help.
“But being the way we are 
about how we value our privacy, I can see the conflict,” he said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org
GNV residents voice concerns over GPD burglary initiativeGPD RECEIVED TWO 
COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE 
SIGN’S SEXUAL THEME.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
At the urging of Gainesville Po-
lice, the UF students behind an an-ti-Tennessee sign altered it slightly Thursday night.
The sign, a spray-painted attack 
on University of Tennessee quar-terback Joshua Dobbs, first read “Josh Dobbs cries after sex.”
It now reads that he “cries after 
exams” — with the letter s still eas-ily visible.
The change, which the house-
mates begrudgingly agreed to, came after Gainesville Police re-
ceived two complaints regarding 
the sexual theme of the sign.“That’s just how this world 
is now, my friend,” said Colin Malafronte, a UF student who lives 
at the house.
The sign first appeared Wednes-
day afternoon on the side of a brick 
house on the corner of Southwest Sixth Avenue and Southwest 12th Street.
And despite the negative back-
lash it has received, for the most part, passersby have enjoyed the jab at Tennessee ahead of Satur-day’s football game between the Gators and the Volunteers, the stu-dents said.
On Thursday, before the 
change, smirking students crossed Southwest 12th Street just to snap photos of the sign.
“Within five minutes (of putting 
it up) guys were driving by on their scooters just laughing their a---s off,” said Peter Tsirnikas, a UF stu-dent who lives at the house.
Tsirnikas, an agricultural op-
erations management sophomore, said the students’ landlord was not a fan of the sign and had asked them to take it down, although it was not until the police arrived that they conceded.
The motivation behind the sign 
was sparked by jabs  that Tennes-see fans made on social media, including attacks on coach Jim McElwain’s wife and a GoFundMe account to raise money for Gators quarterback Austin Appleby’s fu-neral.
“I think college campuses need 
more of it, if anything,” said An-
drew Engle, a UF economics junior 
who lives at the house. “I love it. I love the pageantry of college foot-ball. This is what it’s all about.”
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgExams, not sex: UT sign causes complaints
Martin Vassolo / Alligator Staff
The anti-University-of-T ennessee sign first appeared on 
Wednesday afternoon on the corner of Southwest Sixth Avenue and Southwest 12th Street.
WHAT GPD 
CHECKS FOR
• Vehicle unlocked
• Valuables in plain sight
• Keys left inside vehicle
• Window open
• Garage door opener visibleIT STARTS AT THE 
STUDENT RECREATION 
& FITNESS CENTER POOL 
AND FINISHES IN THE 
STADIUM.
 By Elizabeth Barrett 
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Saturday morning, about 100 
kids will be sprinting around Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium. 
The All Kidz Student Organiza-tion is partnering with All Kidz Inc., a Gainesville-based charity, to host the eighth-annual Kids4Kids Triath-lon. Children between ages of 4 and 18 can participate in the race, where they will begin at the Student Recre-ation and Fitness Center pool, bike around campus and finish with laps around the stadium. Registration is $50 per child.
The triathlon, which begins at 8 
a.m., is raising money for All Kidz Inc., a nonprofit children’s charity, said Dr. Tana Carson, 31, the vice president of All Kidz Inc. and adviser for the All Kidz Student Organiza-tion. It’s the first time the triathlon is being held at UF, Carson said.  
The race is the first big event for 
All Kidz Student Organization at the UF, a spinoff of All Kidz Inc. The or-ganization’s mission is to raise funds for charity and provide meaningful activities for children with special needs, Carson said. 
“It’s so cool to see these kids 
with different abilities conquer this course,” she said. “Kids are helping other kids through their participa-tion.” 
The organization took over the 
event after Kids4Kids Florida, the charity that hosted it for the past seven years, relocated.
Last year, the triathlon brought 
in more than 100 participants, said Kyle Platek, the president of All Kidz Inc.
“It’s a very unique event in that 
it’s inclusive, so it allows kids with special needs to be able to partici-pate along kids who don’t any type of disability,” the 29-year-old said. 
This year they’re hoping for 300 
participants, he said. So far, 101 peo-ple have signed up.  
The distance of the triathlon 
course varies by age group. Disabled children will have their own custom-ized course. Volunteers of the stu-dent organization will help children along the course, which is estimated to take about two hours to complete.   
“There’s a lot of newness to it,” 
Platek said. “But it’s an event that’s familiar to the community.” FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Local triathlon for kids to raise money for children’s charityHE’LL BE STANDING ON 
THE PLAZA OF AMERICAS 
AT 3:35 P .M.
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
When it comes to showing af-
fection, Charlie Le Grand isn’t shy 
about wrapping his arms around 
somebody and squeezing.
Today on the Plaza of the Amer-
icas at 3:35 p.m., the UF sopho-more will attempt to break the 
Guinness world record of the most hugs given by an individual in 60 
seconds. 
“For me, hugging is one way 
I can show people I care about 
them,” the 19-year-old said. 
Le Grand is encouraging his 
friends and others to come out and stand in one of two lines, to receive 
his glorious split-second hug.  
He hopes to have a turnout of 
more than 90 people to break the current record, established by an Indian man named Krishna Kumar. 
Kumar holds the record with 79 
individual hugs in a minute,  Eliza-beth Montoya, the assistant public 
relations manager for Guinness 
World Records North America Inc., wrote in an email. 
“For this record, a genuine hug 
is defined as both arms wrapped round the other person in a close 
embrace,” Montoya said.
To make sure Le Grand is fol-
lowing protocol, at least one per-son will videotape his attempt 
and another will time him with a stopwatch.  Le Gand said he plans to pivot left and right to hug the 
people in lines on either side of 
him, who will need to keep moving forward. 
In order to reach his goal of 
hugging 90 people, Le Grand will have to hug one person every two-
thirds of a second.  
Le Grand said he was inspired 
after he watched Kumar break the record and thought, “Well, hey, I 
could do that.”  
He said he’s hoping togather 
more people to help him when he 
gets onto the plaza. 
Hannah Martin, a 19-year-old 
UF exploratory sophomore, who 
met Le Grand in the Spring concert 
band class, will support him by giving him a hug today. 
She admitted she didn’t know 
why Le Grand wanted to pull the stunt, but she knows him as an 
outgoing and vivacious guy.
“College is a good time to do 
weird things like breaking world records,” Martin said.
Having already received hugs 
from Le Grand in the past, Ash-
win Ramakrishnan said he plans to 
bring others to help. The UF mo-
lecular biology and biochemistry 
sophomore met Le Grand through 
UF’s club swimming team. 
“I personally think it would be 
pretty cool,” the 19-year-old said.  “I definitely do think he has the motivation to do it.”
For Le Grand, it’s more about 
spreading joy.
“The world is a cruel place, and 
if you can make one person’s day, it’s an easy thing to do, so you might as well,” he said.UF student hopes to hug 
his way to a world recordTHE APPLICATION FOR 
THE PROGRAM IS DUE 
TODAY. 
By Dylan Dixon 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Allie Ricker and her colleagues 
at the Career Resource Center 
noticed students didn’t visit on a regular basis. 
“A lot of our services that we 
have are one-and-done types of services,” Ricker said. “Students come in for a workshop and then leave. There’s not a whole lot of 
community.”
As a result, the senior assistant 
director for career and profes-
sional development at the CRC, is helping to launch the Career Suc-cess Institute, a six-week program that aims to help students devel-op skills for leadership positions, 
internships and job searches.
The new program will be held every Tuesday from 5 p.m. to 
6:15 p.m. at the resource center starting Oct. 11. The application, which can be found on the cen-ter’s website, is due today.
“We really wanted to create a 
cohort of students with this insti-tute,” Ricker said. 
The pilot program will provide 
students a chance to connect with their peers and reflect on their ca-reer interests. Initial sessions will focus on community building. Participants will be able to  get to know each other and the resource center’s staff, Ricker said.
Students will then take a per-
sonality assessment to help them reflect on what’s important to them and how that applies to their career goals.
A student leadership panel 
consisting of UF students with ex-perience in campus involvement and internships will also give ad-vice to enrollees during one of the program’s sessions, Ricker said. 
Ron Cabrera, a UF health edu-
cation and behavior junior, has attended multiple workshops at the CRC in the past and is excited about the institute’s potential.
“I think it will be beneficial for 
students to take advantage of that 
program,” the 20-year-old said. 
“It will help us get a better as-pect of what careers we want to pursue and just network with the people there as well.”
CRC will host pilot six-week leadership, jobs program
Impact Party2016 SG Party Platform
• Feature students’ art on campus
• Promote more civic engagement opportunities with the Student Body
• Create a mentor program for local middle-school students 
• Provide secure cellphone- and tablet-charging stations on campus 
• Advocate for more affordable online textbook options 
• Subsidize bus travel programs for academic breaks 
• Install secure storing options for longboards 
• Expand healthy food options in vending machines 
• Implement a canopy tent rental program for student organizations 
• Develop Gator 1 mobile appThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Browsing the various news websites 
online has become an arduous task in 2016. Watching news stations on TV is even more unpalatable. Trying to stay informed is important, but a very ﬁ  ne 
line has developed between awareness of cur-rent issues and receiving the massive media spin on everything. Has 2016 really been that bad a year for the world? No, but I believe we’re not only becoming far more aware of the terrible things, but also fascinated by them. For the ma-jority of Americans, news comes through their preferred syndicated source’s ﬁ  lter, as they are simply being spoon-fed whatever that news station decides is important that day. 
The news media has power, but it might have more 
than it should. With regard to the current political climate, the relationship between Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and virtually all of the major news out-lets — barring Fox News Channel — has been worse than most relationships any of us will have to endure in our lives. The almost-daily dialogue between Trump and cer-tain papers (The New York Times and The Washington Post being his favorite targets) has approached comical levels of bickering and squabbling. And all for what? I un-derstand Trump’s political tactic of always trying to stay in the news cycle; in fact, I think it’s a brilliant way to obtain massive amounts of free publicity and TV time. But at this point in the election, isn’t it time to take on a more traditional (i.e., proven to work) approach? One with less yelling of absurdities and provocative late-night tweets?
No. From the original conception of Trump’s presiden-
tial run, the “rule book” for how to properly run a cam-paign was heaved out the window, so what makes people think he’s going to suddenly change things? Although I do not think this part is intentional, I do believe the vast ma-jority of the media worldwide is avidly against Trump. It’s quite obvious, actually. But I do not believe this will have any negative effect on Trump’s chances of winning. In fact, I think it just might help him.
Journalist Glenn Greenwald compared the 
Trump-vs.-the-media battle to Britain’s recent vote to leave the European Union. Greenwald stated, “the mistake the U.K. media and U.K. elites made with Brexit is the exact same one that the U.S. media and U.S. elites are mak-ing about Trump.” Greenwald described the 
pre-Brexit vote climate as the media and elites simply “re-inforced each other” and only really talked among them-selves and those who agreed with them. What resulted was the appearance of an obvious “stay” vote because virtually every media outlet and famous person was for it. The reality, however, turned out to be just the opposite once the people hit the booths. Both British and global media were shocked by such an outcome. If the entire media feels one way, that means most regular citizens do too, right? Wrong. 
I agree with Greenwald when he says those voting for 
Trump in November do not care about any media spin against him. The media can keep showing poll after poll with Clinton ahead of Trump, but they are only deceiving themselves and maybe a few other people who place  all their faith in mainstream media. I cannot say who will win in November, as this election has proved me wrong a multitude of times, and I have given up trying to predict anything. But doesn’t it feel wonderful to know that this dumpster ﬁ  re is almost put out?
Donald Trump is the ultimate political wild card, and 
I would not be surprised at all if, just like Brexit back in June, the world the media sees and the world the regular people see prove to be vastly different. 
Andrew Hall is a UF business administration junior. 
His column appears on Fridays.
US media is making the same mistake UK did Darts & Laurels
This election cycle is pretty icky. This, dear reader, is no 
secret. But the fact that all living presidents, on both sides of 
the aisle, are united in their political stance against the Don 
should speak volumes about his candidacy. A few days ago, 
former President George H. W. Bush, the former vice pres-ident to President Ronald Reagan, reportedly said he would be casting his vote for Hillary Clinton. If this is true, we 
present a laurel to former President Bush for having the 
courage to acknowledge his party’s absolute failure this election cycle and choosing his country over mere party afﬁ  liation.
Speaking of the former secretary of state, she recently 
appeared in Zach Galiﬁ  anakis’ overwhelmingly funny, dead-pan interview web series, “Between Two Ferns.” On it, Hill-ary takes jabs for being a woman, having an email account, fetching coffee as President Obama’s “secretary” and con-
tracting pneumonia. More importantly, this episode repre-
sents either Clinton’s understanding of how to reach millen-nials, or one of her staffer’s. Regardless, we present a laurel to Hillary Clinton (and possibly her staffer) for being a 
good sport and letting Galiﬁ  anakis spoof the bulls--- her 
opposition perpetuates.
Oh, sports. Here at the Alligator, we love sports and we 
don’t care who knows. This Saturday, your Florida Gators 
are looking to defend their 11-game winning streak against 
the Tennessee Volunteers of the University of Tennessee 
in Knoxville and advance it to 12. For no other reason other 
than the fact that we can, we present a dart to the state of Tennessee — a state that legally allows whales to be shot 
out of your car window, despite Tennessee being landlocked.
 Maybe they made the law to be cheeky. Maybe they 
didn’t. But one thing is for certain about whales: There’s no better place to be a whale right now than in California. A little more than a week ago, California Gov. Jerry Brown  
signed legislation into law that prohibits an individual or corporation from breeding orcas, as well as terminating the ability for corporations like SeaWorld to perform orca shows. We present unto Gov. Jerry Brown a laurel for promoting animal welfare.
Animal welfare is a hot-topic button issue these days. On 
Wednesday, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed that we promote (or demote, depending on your view) the adorable rusty patch bumble bee to the status of endangered. 
With bee species all over the U.S. declining in the last 20 
years, the bumble bee was the ﬁ  rst to sadly make the cut. Bumble bees bring in, on average, $3.5 billion to the U.S. every year. This yellow-and-black-striped dart is thrown at all of those who deny the overwhelming evidence of 
climate change, the dangers it poses to our beautiful ﬂ  ow-ers and its imminent threat to take away our prized honey.You’re sitting on the edge of a river bank, staring intently 
into your reﬂ  ection. Minnows swim in circles around the re-
ﬂ  ection of yourself. You feel the soft breeze blow across your face, rustling the leaves of the trees behind you. It sounds like the wind is whispering something. You turn around and try to listen. Unable to make it out, you turn back to look at your reﬂ  ection. To your horrid surprise, it’s gone. You feel a slimy tap on your shoulder. It’s your reﬂ  ection, wet and cov-ered in minnows. “Darts & Laurels,” it says to you. Leaning closer and closer, it says one last time before disappearing…
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
Once again, instances of violence in-
volving the police and the public have 
stirred tensions in our communities. We 
have been shaken by this violence, and we 
join those who want a peaceful resolution 
to this unrest.As leaders of our respective police forc-
es, we have worked diligently to bridge 
gaps between our departments and the 
community. Our goal is to help build trust. 
We have been proactive in bias training, 
hiring practices and attending community forums so opinions on the issues can be voiced. We want your participation and 
encourage everyone to share their thoughts 
with us.
We pledge to work together to create 
change within our community, and to keep it a safe one.
Signed,
Tony Jones, Gainesville Police Chief
Linda J. Stump-Kurnick, University Po-
lice ChiefFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
A few weeks ago, the conservative UF or-
ganization Turning Point announced plans 
to invite Milo Yiannopoulos to speak later this semester on campus. Yiannopoulos is a Breitbart News contributor, notorious Twit-
ter troll and vocal critic of feminism, Islam 
and political correctness. Some even con-sider him to be an emerging spokesman for the “alt-right,”  a nationalist, nativist and anti-multicultural alternative to mainstream Republican conservatism.
When news of his plans to come to UF 
broke, some students met the news with excitement, while others called for a ban to 
prevent Yiannopoulos from speaking. A few 
others even shared an op-ed article written by the University of Alabama College Demo-crats in their school newspaper, The Crimson White, entitled “The University should disin-vite Milo Yiannopoulos.”
In this piece, the author claims, “universi-
ties exist primarily to educate, and nothing about Yiannopoulos’ writings are education-
al.” He goes on to argue that Yiannopoulos 
“exercises his First Amendment rights the way mass shooters exercise their Second Amendment rights, with a bla-tant disregard for the well-being of those around him.” Lastly, he calls on the administration to “play its part in stemming this 
nation’s rolling tide of hatred, 
and that if that means banning a 31-year-old misogynistic child from campus, then so be it.”
I would ﬁ  rst like to point 
out: I do not, by any means, support Yiannopoulos or the movement he stands for. However, I believe this approach to the matter is fundamentally wrong. The 
First Amendment is an inalienable civil lib-
erty, one that public universities have no right to deny no matter how controversial or offensive the subject. The First Amend-ment does not state “Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech un-less that speech shows a blatant disregard for the emotional well-being of others.” In-stead, bad ideas should be defeated through 
civil discourse, not through intimidation and 
certainly not through censorship. Justifying censorship on one idea may very well lead to justifying censorship on others. 
Unfortunately, this is pre-
cisely what is happening on university campuses, although few will admit it. University 
administrations across the 
country have succumbed to pressure from student organiza-tions and cancelled scheduled appearances under the pretext of student safety. For instance, 
conservative commentator and critic of Black Lives Matter, Ben Shapiro, has already had scheduled appearances at the University of 
California, Los Angeles and DePaul Univer-
sity cancelled due to “security concerns.”  Yiannopoulos has been rejected from the University of Miami, also on the grounds of security concerns. To be sure, this is not just an attack on conservative or inﬂ  ammatory speakers only; Newman University in Wich-ita, Kansas, was recently forced to withdraw its invitation to Kansas Supreme Court Jus-
tice Carol Beier for “safety reasons” following 
protests from anti-abortion student activists.
As Catherine Rampell astutely pointed out in her Washington Post op-ed Tuesday, “safety” has become a new excuse for uni-versities to shut down free speech. She notes that “campus security” has become a conve-nient rationale for discarding commitments 
to the First Amendment.
It is clear that universities’ decisions to 
cancel these appearances are less about safe-
ty concerns and more about fear of unwanted media attention. For a school like UF, which provides ample security at much larger events such as football games, it should be no problem ﬁ  nding security to protect speak-ers or students from protesters.
Regardless of whether you ﬁ  nd his be-
liefs racist, sexist or otherwise offensive, we must hold our commitment to civil liberties above all else. Only good ideas, not censor-ship, can counteract bad ideas. Therefore, I call on the UF administration not to reward the saboteurs and the intimidators, but to re-spect freedom of speech and let Yiannopou-los speak on campus. 
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science 
and telecommunication senior. His column appears on Fridays.
Controversial or not, UF administration should let Milo Yiannopoulos speakColumn
Julian Fleischman
opinions@alligator.org
Letters to the Editor
Regarding David Parrott’s email to stu-
dents: 
UF’s Vice President of Student Affairs’ Da-
vid Parrott’s “incomprehension” statement is factually false because it incorrectly implies 
that violence has only occurred against blacks 
across the nation. The Washington Post re-ported July 8 that of the 509 people who had been killed by police in 2016, 123 were Afri-can-American. That means about 75 percent of the people killed were not African-American. To say there was only violence against blacks across the nation is, and continues to be, a bla-tant and intolerable misstatement of fact.
In Parrott’s “struggle to ﬁ  nds words,” he 
has actually continued a false narrative that white people hate black people because he speciﬁ  cally excluded the fact that the prob-lems in Ohio, Tulsa, Oklahoma and Charlotte, North Carolina were due to police violence, not white-on-black hatred.
Parrott makes a further implication as 
the vice president for Student Affairs that he “speaks” for the university and that it agrees 
with his false assertions that violence is only 
and solely committed against African-Amer-icans by whites and all whites are guilty of black hatred. 
Furthermore, why didn't he hope that the 
tragedies in Chicago, where hundreds of Af-rican-Americans have been killed and thou-sands have been injured, not go unnoticed? He is complaining about violence against African-
Americans, yet he is excluding the violence not 
committed by whites or police? Why not con-duct a respective or supportive dialogue about the shooting and tensions in Chicago? If he wants to be truly concerned about violence in the U.S., then why not expose the entire truth about violence? Why omit vital facts about the situation? If Parrott truly cared, why not say “all violence matters?” He should be upset about violence against all Americans. When 
Parrott and others are selective about which 
acts of violence to be outraged about, it does nothing but further divide us and builds the walls his Ofﬁ  ce of Multicultural Affairs should be tearing down.
I understand his zeal to encourage students 
to stand together and participate, but it’s not his job to do that. When he prefaces his re-quest with gross misstatements of fact and 
omissions, it only serves to divide the UF Stu-
dent Body into white aggressors and (everyone else) victim groups. In his letter, for me, he portrayed whites as racists who just want to commit violence on anyone and everyone who is not white. He has created more divisiveness, not more diversity.
Parrot’s email should not have been sent 
using the student-wide server. It contained his private and factually inaccurate opinion about 
the state of our nation. It created the appear-
ance that UF supported and agreed with his blatant falsehoods. It was an attack and an insult to me and all Americans, because he implied we (anyone not black) are all racists and practice black hatred as a matter of course, which I do not. I feel that the university should retract the statement, and Parrott should apol-ogize. Furthermore, personal opinions should 
be limited to personal and private email serv-
ers, and school-wide emails need to be fact-checked before they are sent.
Sincerely,John Jones, UF business student8   ALLIGATOR FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
Drag performer Rachel Boheme, who declined to give her real name for privacy reasons, does her 
makeup before her performance at Maude’s Side Car Bar last Friday night. Boheme said, “I’m usually just really in the zone…(I’m) focused on making sure everything looks right (when getting ready). ” 
Rachel Boheme, 25, glues her artificial nails in preparation for her performance last Friday night at Downtown Drag. Rachel said she’s been doing drag “right around seven years now. ”
Boheme, 25, puts on her fake eyelashes in preparation for her drag performance. “I learned from a lot of places and people... who have given me tips and tricks along the way, ” she said. 
“First thing I do in the dressing room (is) rip my eyelashes off because they’re the most annoying thing in my makeup, ” Mirage said. For hosting the show, she usually makes about $45, not including tips from the audience.
Photos By Alan Alvarez / Alligator StaffFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016 ALLIGATOR   9 
Even as a child, Cavallaro liked to 
put on a show.
Taking on the role of an officer in 
a middle-school play, he added an 
impromptu dance, making the audi-ence laugh. But even as he embraced performance, Cavallaro said he often felt lost and alone in a family envi-
ronment that frowned upon homo-
sexuality.
When he was 13, he lied about 
his developing feelings toward other boys. Instead, he would tell others it was the prettiest girl in class who had his heart. 
The differences between other 
sexual orientations, he said, didn’t 
have meaning until he met a gay 
student on the fourth floor of Trusler Hall his freshman year at UF.
Through getting to know the stu-
dent, Cavallaro, who now identifies as gay, began accepting himself. With the help of friends, he said he learned to ignore the taunts he still faced about his weight and to accept 
his sexuality.
By the end of Spring 2012, all of 
his Gainesville friends knew he was 
gay. But Cavallaro still stressed over his parents’ discovery because he knew their religious leanings had led 
them to disagree with homosexual-
ity.
To his own surprise, they ended 
up being very accepting and were just relieved he finally came out.
Unknown to Cavallaro, his par-
ents already knew he was gay after snooping through his laptop and finding a class paper in which he spelled out his hidden sexuality. 
“They still love me. It doesn’t 
change anything,” he said.
After his sexuality had been re-
vealed, his mother accidentally found about his hobby when one of his friends shared a video of a Nicki Mirage performance on Facebook. 
“I was thinking he needed a dif-
ferent wig and to practice walking in heels if he really wants to pull this 
off,” Nick’s mom, who asked not to 
be named, wrote in an email. 
”I think I watched that first per-
formance a 100 times,” she said. 
Nicki Visage and Nicki Mirage. Those were the two final choices 
as Cavallaro sat with friends in his dorm room during Summer 2013, deliberating on the name that would define his stage presence.  
The group settled on the latter be-cause of what they saw as an obvi-
ous pun.
“I’m like a mirage,” he said, 
“From a distance I look like a beauti-
ful woman, but up close I’m just a man.” 
Mirage’s personality came natu-
rally to him, he said. While Caval-laro can be reserved, Mirage is much more confident. Mirage can get right in the face of the audience, strutting under a spotlight for upward of 30 
people. 
Mirage made her debut at the In-
ter-Residence Hall Association’s pag-
eant during Cavallaro’s junior year, when he was a residence assistant in Riker  Hall.  Mirage  entered in the men’s competition, performing in drag with a sequined hat and a whip to Britney Spears’ song “Circus.” For 
the Q&A section, Cavallaro changed 
out of his drag clothes, opting for a suit. He walked away with a sash bearing “Mr. IRHA 2014.”
“I feel like I’ve made it,” he said. 
“At least in Gainesville.”
Cavallaro separates his drag life 
and personal life — two Facebook pages, two names and two different faces. But if someone asks, he’s not afraid to share.“It just wasn’t something that I 
don’t really put out there immedi-ately,” Cavallaro said. “I’m so much more than just being gay.”
His “drag sister” and fellow 
director for Maude’s Downtown Drag shows, Marina Maroney, also known as Drew Aldrich, is also com-fortable sharing his name, but he un-derstands others who aren’t. A lot of guys and transgender women turn to drag because they don’t feel comfort-
able in their own skin, he said. 
“Society has told us that we’re 
too gay or too feminine,” Aldrich, 
23, said. “So I think drag is kind of a big F-you.” 
Drag allows individuals in the 
LGBTQ+ community to make a little extra money off of the hyper-femininity that is normally atypical, 
Aldrich said.  But the job comes with 
its own set of stigmas. Some assume all queens are gay and want to be women, or that they’re all stuck-up and self-absorbed, he said.
Not all drag queens are members 
of the LGBTQ+ community. Some 
are straight and some are cis-wom-
en, known as “faux-queens,” Caval-laro said. Even though transgender men and women are accepted into the drag community, most of them see drag as just a night job. 
“I’m still a man outside the wig,” 
Aldrich said. 
Cavallaro will always be Nicki 
Mirage.
Lip-syncing to songs and danc-
ing at Maude’s allowed Cavallaro to create something other than his re-search projects. He spends his day in labs, making technology to measure bacteria in food before spending his nights in drag.
But in finding Mirage, Cavallaro 
found a life outside of his future ca-reer. 
Although he said he doesn’t fore-
see himself pursuing drag full-time, he wants to do it until his body gives out. 
After college, Cavallaro said he 
sees himself continuing to break ste-
reotypes. He’ll be anything but a bor-
ing engineer. And although he keeps his worlds separate, he’s grown in both.  
“I’d prefer to not have to get rid 
of her,” he said. “I don’t think I ever will have to.” 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
DRAG,  from pg.1The masters student performs and hosts weekly shows as Nicki MirageBoheme does her makeup before her performance at Maude’s Side Car Bar last Friday night.  
“I’m usually just really in the zone… (I’m) focused on making sure everything looks right (when getting ready), ” she said.
Nicki Mirage, 23, slips into her golden heels from Shoe Show before per-forming her first song at Downtown Drag. While prepping, Nicki said “I’m not really thinking about myself. I’m just doing art essentially, because it’s so transforming. ”
Nicki Mirage performs to the song “T elepathy” by Christina Aguilera at Maude’s Side Car Bar. Mirage said “there’s bias to plus-size everywhere...even in the drag world. ”
•   •   •
•   •   ••   •   •FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5NEAR TRYON, NC EQUESTRIAN CTR 7.84 Acres of Pasture Creek Frontage Partially Fenced $59,900 Mountain View Acreage w/ Paved Access starting at $24,900 (828) 286-1666     9-23-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10Auction PUBLIC AUCTION – ONSITE & 
ONLINE Caseworks International, Inc. Tues, 
September 27th at 10:00 AM Preview: 09/26 
● 9am to 4pm 6001 Hiatus Road, Suite 3-B Tamarac, Florida 33321 2005 Northwood Machine Mfg Co Model #IH105 CNC Machine 
Toyota Propane 3-Stage 4,500 lb. Capacity 
Forklift w/ Side Shift Model #7FGCU25 
PlasticVac Inc. Model #406XX Vacuum Forming Machine Engraving Machines, Matt Cutters Band Saws, Drill Presses, Dust 
Collectors Air Compressors, Pallet Racking 
Warehouse Equipment 26,000+ Linear Feet 
of Assorted Wood Framing Pre-assembled Frames Pre-assembled Vacuum Formed Styrene Cavities Acrylic Materials, Assembly Hardware & Component Pieces, Office 
Furniture Computers, Office Equipment and 
more! Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors 
Case No:CACE-16 Catalog and photos 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com 
15%-18% BP ● (800) 840-BIDS AB-1098 
AU-3219, Eric Rubin      9-23-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 7 Computers 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-1298 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free Towing Same Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647       9-23-1-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatest
1
1312111098765432
For information on advertising in the Worship Guide, 
contact Alligator Advertising 352-376-4482
Chapel of the 
Incarnation
The EpiscoGators Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30pm 
followed by a free home cooked 
meal for students
1522 W University Ave
across the street from 
Library WestEpiscopal
Gainesville 
Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for a 
Spiritual Community?
We are a community 
dedicated to peace, integrity, 
equality, social justice, and 
care of the earth.
Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11 a.m. Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
www.gainesvillequakers.orgQuaker
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30pm, Sun. 
9am, 11:30, 1:30 (espanol), 
5:30, 7:30
M-F 12& 5:30 pm.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.orgCatholicFaith Presbyterian 
Church (PCA)
Come join us! 
Sundays at 10am
5196 NW 39th Ave
352-377-5482
faithgainesville.org
faith@faithgainesville.org
Trinity United Methodist
Contemporary: Wednesday, 6:35p
Coffee Talk for college, 7:30p
Sunday Worship: 8:15, 9:40, 11a 
376-6615,TrinityGNV .orgMethodist
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship
8:30 and 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after
 Sunday worship
College Fellowship
Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, 
Bible study and recreation
Contact Scott Stuart at 
college@1stpc.orgPresbyterian
University City Church
of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9am and 
Wednesdays at 7pm
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, large 
group events, free meals and 
much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Non-Denominational
Campus Church
of Christ
Campus Church!
Sunday worship 10:30 a 
+ Wed 7p
Free student lunch 1+3 Sunday
Want to get involved in music 
ministry/college group?
Contact: rom116steven@gmail
352-501-7253
across from UF law school!
Gainesville Vineyard
Jesus-centered faith. Authentic 
community. Good coffee. Sleep 
in on Sunday! Our service meets 
@ 4pm. 3536 NW 8th Ave (just 
2 miles from campus) College 
group meets twice monthly 
downtown @7:30
371-0838
www.gainesvillevineyard.org
Vida Springs Church
A Church for students
Modern Real Relevant Truth
Sunday Service 10:30 am
Wyndham Garden Hotel
2900 SW 13th St. Near UF
www.VidaSpringsChurch.org
United Church 
of Gainesville
Whoever you are, wherever you 
are on life’s journey you are 
welcome here. 
Open and affirming to LGBTQ!
Services Sun 9:15 and 11:15
Young Adult Lunuch 
2 Sundays/month @ 12:30
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org 378-3500Church of ChristUnited12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305      9-23-1-16Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479-7963        9-23-1-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates  1-877-330-3429      9-23-1-15ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Part-time customer service sales associate.Fill out an application in store.The UPS Store #2715, 5745 SW 75th St, Gainesville, FL M-F 9am-7pm • Saturdays 9am-5pm     9-28-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
ACROSS
1 Out of practice
6 Blue stone
11 It doesn’t last long14 Casual opening15 Saudi neighbor16 Part of un giorno
17 Crayfish habitat
18 Employees20 Seminal
discovery bysports historians?
22 Newspaper
supporters
25 LAX stat26 “You got me
there”
27 Comprehensive
text on mints?
32 Card game
33 Certain cross-
country traveler
34 Crane’s
construction
36 “One Mic” rapper
37 Reaction to Bugs’
continuedevasiveness?
41 Common ID43 Soaps actress
Rylan
44 Some kissing
sounds
47 Snap48 How a snail
moves?
51 Lend __54 “That’s so cute!”55 Brine-cured
delicacy
56 “I plotted against
Caesarcompletely on myown!”?
61 “Doubtful”62 Be enamored of66 Relative of -ista67 View from the
Eiffel Tower
68 Traction aid69 Cold and wet70 Fragrant
compound
71 Quite a while
DOWN
1 Kid2 A, in Acapulco3 Mess metaphor4 Canter cousin5 “Am I clear?”6 Dieter’s choice7 Milwaukee : mine
:: Marseilles : __
8 Last of three
Catherines9 Calligrapher’s
array
10 Searches
(through)
11 Philatelist’s
source
12 Peloponnesian
region
13 Nature spirits of
Greek myth
19 Plains tribe21 List substitute:
Abbr.
22 Cadillac model23 Hägar creator
Browne
24 TV’s “Through
the Wormhole,”e.g.
28 Invoice heading
no.
29 Initiation30 Ryan of
“Sleepless inSeattle”
31 Night sch. staple35 Bit of adverbial
wordplay
38 Confessional
music genre
39 LBJ’s successor40 Real head-turner
in the animalkingdom
41 Deeper into la-la
land42 “From Here to
Eternity” Oscar
winner
45 Coverage-
providing org.
46 __ symbol
49 Bit of equestrian
gear
50 __ Beach,
Hawaii, home of
the 2005 LittleLeague WorldSeries champs52 “__ suspected!”53 Salon 
procedure
57 Hawaiian 
strings
58 Agitated state
59 Pothole 
warning
60 Farm female
63 Org. assisting
museums
64 Amtrak unit65 QB’s stat
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/23/1609/23/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, September 23, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?
Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855-995-3142      9-23-1-16
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855-389-3099               9-23-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 9/26-9/29 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     9-26-5-20Free college football prediction competition with $500 prize. 1 week left to register. For 
details check out 
http://www.thesportpick.com/college-foot -
ball-contest/      9-28-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYPUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
20 Events/Notices 22 Tickets
 16 Health Services 19 Connections 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Foley elected to Florida Sports Hall of Fame
Florida athletic director Jeremy Foley was voted into the state of Florida's 
Sports Hall of Fame on Thursday. He joins former MLB player Johnny Da-mon, former T ampa Bay Buccaneers coach Jon Gruden and two others in the 2016 class. Foley is set to retire as UF's athletic director on Oct. 1. Maddox Patterson and the 
Florida cross country team will compete at the Mountain Dew Invitational on Saturday.Read the story on pg. 16.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
A roar bellowed from the 
Sanders Football Practice Field 
Tuesday afternoon.
Near the end of UF’s practice, 
the team simulated the raucous noise that will surround them when they step into Neyland Sta-
dium on Saturday in Knoxville. 
The simulation was especially 
aimed at preparing the younger players, like freshmen quarter-
backs Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask, for the fierce rivalry crowd that lies ahead in what will mark Florida's first road game. 
“When you go out there, 
you literally can’t hear yourself think,” senior Ahmad Fulwood said. “It’s just time to buckle 
down. You’ve got to be even 
more focused, even more de-tailed with your work.”
While an ear-piercing Tennes-
see crowd is a sure bet, Florida’s 
quarterback game plan is any-
thing but.
Backup Austin Appleby will 
start the game. That much we know. 
But coach Jim McElwain, who 
prohibited media members from 
attending practices this week, 
has been secretive about the rest of the quarterback plans. 
Via teleconference Wednes-
day, McElwain said Saturday will be an opportunity to get Franks or Trask some reps in addition to Appleby, which would be an unusual time for two freshmen 
quarterbacks to play in their first 
game at Florida considering the matchup’s hostile environment and importance.
“I know our guys have trust 
in Austin and Feleipe and Kyle,” McElwain said.
And yet, after Wednesday’s 
practice at his weekly press con-
ference, McElwain wouldn’t con-
firm that one of his freshman sig-nal callers would play. 
McElwain would rather not tip 
off Tennessee’s coaching staff.
“Let me just give you my 
game plan,” McElwain joked. “You think I fell off the turnip truck yesterday, don’t you?”
Depending on how Appleby 
performs, Franks or Trask may be called upon. 
Franks underwhelmed in UF's 
Spring game by throwing three 
interceptions, and while Trask 
played well, he was a backup quarterback at his high school just one year ago.
But like McElwain said, their 
teammates trust them with the ball even in unfamiliar territory. 
“You know, that’s a big stage 
to come into,” Fulwood said. 
“But I don’t think they’d have a Gators preparing for fierce rivalry game at Tennessee
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain looks on while quarterback Luke Del Rio is attended to by trainers during Florida's 
32-0 win over North texas on Saturday. Del Rio, who sustained a left knee injury, will not play against UT.
McElwain unclear about UF's quarterback plan
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
When coach Bryan Shelton 
and his tennis team aren’t prac-ticing and preparing for upcom-ing tournaments, they spend their time together engaged in another highly competitive ac-tivity: Spikeball.
It’s a sport similar to hand-
ball, except players throw a ball 
against a trampoline.
“It’s two-against-two and 
these guys get after it,” Shelton 
said. “There’s a lot of trash talk-ing and there’s a lot of fun with 
it.”
Games like spikeball and 
Kan Jam — another popular 
game among the team — fos-
ter the camaraderie among the 
teammates.
“You see that they really en-joy one another,” Shelton said. 
“They’re a competitive group, 
but they work well together.”
Since four freshmen have 
been added onto UF’s roster this Fall, forming team chemis-
try is a necessity. And through 
games like spikeball, Shelton is hoping that freshmen like David 
Sarkissov and Stephen Madonia will be more comfortable play-
ing in events like the Bedford 
Cup this weekend, along with 
junior Jordan Belga. The first round begins today in Tampa.Men’s tennis competing in two tournaments this weekendAUBURN 3, FLORIDA 0
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Kaylan Marckese’s sloppy 
pass sailed to midfielder Briana Solis in triple coverage just out
-side the penalty box.  
Solis passed the ball back, 
but Marckese was unprepared, giving AU’s Kristen Dodson time to intercept the ball and sneak it into the net.In the 24th minute, Auburn 
led 1-0.
And the goals kept coming.The No. 12  Gators were held 
scoreless for the second time this year in their 3-0 home loss to Auburn on Thursday night. 
Despite outshooting the Ti
-
gers 16-13 and putting four shots on goal, UF’s offense was shut down by unranked Auburn.
“They were locked in,” senior forward Savannah Jordan said. 
“It was a little frustrating, 
but my teammates stepped up 
and had a couple of chances, 
and I think we’ve just got to UF's offense shut down in home loss to Auburn
Shelton
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
problem. They both are, you know, 
tough, smart quarterbacks.”
And no matter who’s under cen-
ter, he will have sideline support 
from Luke Del Rio. 
Out with a knee injury he suf-
fered against North Texas, Del Rio has been signaling from the side-lines and going through game-plan preparation at practice this week 
and will fly to Knoxville with the 
team. 
McElwain said Del Rio’s pres-
ence will help the other quarter-
backs.
“That really is what you expect 
from that position,” McElwain 
said. “And the guys around him, the team, they know he’s there.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg14Del Rio 
will attend
work on finishing those.”
Auburn (6-4, 2-1 Southeastern Confer -
ence) goalkeeper Sarah Le Beau contin -
ued what has been an impressive 2016 
campaign, saving four shots to notch her fourth shutout this season and ce
-
ment her program’s first ever win in Gainesville.
The Tigers took advantage of a series 
of miscommunications from Florida's de
-
fense.
After Auburn’s first goal off the mis -
communication between Marckese and Solis, Florida allowed a second goal late in the second half off a header from Au
-
burn’s Courtney Schell.
Moments later, Florida (6-3, 1-2 SEC) 
suffered another tactical breakdown.
After a pass was deflected near mid -field, Marckese made an attempt to clear the ball away from a charging Dodson. 
Dodson blocked Marckese’s kick and 
raced past the St. Petersburg native be
-
fore tapping the ball into an open goal to put Auburn’s lead at three.
“That was probably one of the strang
-
est games that I’ve been a part of since I’ve been here at UF,” coach Becky Bur
-
leigh said. 
“Obviously two really interesting 
goals in a set piece. I think the big thing for us is how we respond to this.”
Next up, Florida is set to face the un
-
ranked Tennessee Volunteers (5-4, 1-1 SEC) on Sunday at 5 p.m. at James G. Pressly Stadium. 
The Gators defeated UT last year 2-1 
in Knoxville.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg14Marckese had a pair of miscues
Belga put on an impressive per-
formance last weekend, winning the singles title in his draw at the Duke James Bonk Invitational over North Carolina’s Joshua Peck 7-6, 6-1.
“You’d like to see him consoli-
date that win with another solid performance, so hopefully he can carry some of that momentum from last week forward into this week,” Shelton said. “It’s not easy to do.”
And for Sarkissov and Madon-
ia, the Bedford Cup is a chance for them to improve their perfor-mance from the Duke Invite, where Sarkissov finished in 15th place in singles while Madonia had a 13th place finish.
“They didn’t certainly play as well as they wanted to last week 
at Duke,” Shelton said, “so it’s just 
another opportunity for them to 
make some corrections with things they didn’t do well a week ago and handle the situations a little bit bet-
ter this weekend.”
Additionally, seven Gators will 
be competing in the 49th annual 
Southern Intercollegiate Tourna-
ment: freshmen Joseph Guillin and 
Johannes Ingildsen, sophomores 
McClain Kessler and Alfredo Per-ez, junior Chase Perez-Blanco and seniors Maxx Lipman and Elliott 
Orkin. The tournament, beginning 
today, will be held in Athens, Geor-
gia. It is the first time these players will have a chance to compete this fall.
Orkin is coming off a year in 
which he boasted an overall singles record of 30-14 along with an over-all doubles record of 20-13. Perez-Blanco put up a tournament singles record of 15-4 last year.
With talented upperclassmen 
getting back in action and the addi-tion of several freshmen, these Fall tournaments will be a time for the players to further develop their in-dividual skills and team chemistry.
“We use this fall to just get bet-
ter to develop and get as far along as we possibly can before our real season, which starts in the spring,” Shelton said. 
“So we are just using every 
practice, every match, as a means to get ready for the spring when we get to compete together as a team.”
 
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org
TENNIS,  from pg14Orkin went 30 -14 in singles last season 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Bryan Shelton (right) high-fives McClain Kessler during UF's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan kicks the ball during Florida's 5-2 win over Iowa State on Aug. 19.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Receiver Ahmad Fulwood stands on the field during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
16   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2016
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
PATTERSON WAS ONE 
OF JUST FOUR WOMEN 
TO COMPETE IN 
SIX RACES IN 2015. 
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
While older, experienced runners 
like Carlos Miranda, Taylor Tubbs 
and Mac Reynolds absorb most of 
the attention on the Florida cross 
country team, younger runners may 
be overlooked.
Enter sophomore Maddox Patter-
son, who wants to be a bigger con-
tributor in her second year than she 
was in her ﬁ  rst. 
“As a freshman, I had a lot of 
anxiety and was just really nervous 
a lot,” she said. “So coming back this 
year, I’m just a lot less stressed.”
Even with the extra stress last 
season, though, Patterson ran well. 
She was one of only four women on the 2015 team to compete in six rac-
es throughout the season. The other 
names in that group are runners who 
were important to last year’s success – Tubbs, who is now the most sea-soned runner on the women’s team, 
sophomore Elisabeth Burgh and for-
mer Gator Maria Larsen, who left the 
team after last season.
All three raced in the 2015 South-
eastern Conference Championships and had top-25 ﬁ  nishes. Patterson raced as well, ﬁ  nishing 55th.
But adapting to the college style 
of competition takes time, and for Patterson, it continues when the Gators host the Mountain Dew In-vitational this Saturday at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
“I know what to expect now, even though the training is differ-ent,” she said. “I know that I’m gon-
na be able to get through it in a race 
and in a workout.”
After ﬁ  nishing 21st in the Cov-
ered Bridge Open last season, Patter-son jumped up to 14th this year, her 
highest ﬁ  nish at UF.  She also im-
proved her time by just under seven seconds.
A leap in the 
leaderboards is 
something Patter-
son looks to for 
motivation.
“It makes me 
really excited for 
the season, just 
because I already 
feel ﬁ  tter,” she said. “So to run faster 
kind of just shows me that the work-
outs are working.”
As the season progresses, she’ll 
be relied on more heavily than last 
season to bring her abilities to a new 
level.
The Gators are reaching an in-
tense period of the schedule as they 
have races every weekend for the next four weeks. Only Saturday’s 
Mountain Dew Invitational takes 
place in Gainesville.
Patterson and the Gators will 
have to step their game up in order 
to achieve the success they want, 
but motivation is not an element 
that’s lacking.
 “As soon as the race was over, 
I was already excited and thinking 
of Mountain Dew,” Patterson said 
about the season’s ﬁ  rst race. “Every 
day I think about it and I’m anxious to run it and it’s just really exciting.” 
@Skylerlebron
Slebron@alligator.org  Sophomore runner 
looking to contribute
Alligator File Photo
Maddox Patterson (147) runs during the 2015 Mountain Dew 
Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
Patterson
