We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 30 MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
Defensive line gains experience 
in victory over Vandy
CeCe Jefferson had four tackles, pg 13
GNV residents voice concerns about air
It was part of a discussion at a UF-led panel, pg. 5
Man steals vacuum, says he was “being stupid”
He smashed a display window at National Vacuum, pg. 5Gainesville celebrates Rosh Hashana
See the story and photos, pg.8-9
Gainesville celebrates Rosh Hashana
FLORIDA 13
 VANDERBILT 6
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
Antonio Callaway ﬁ  red off the 
line and beat his man, leaving quar-
terback Austin Appleby with an easy target down the right sideline.
But Appleby’s pass had too much 
power, sailing over Callaway and meeting the turf on the Vanderbilt sideline.
The misﬁ  re came on Florida’s ﬁ  rst 
drive of its 13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Saturday. 
Facing a third-and-seven, the 
Gators wanted to demoralize the 
Commodores early.
Instead, the offense jogged off the ﬁ  eld, highlighting a problem Florida 
has faced since the beginning of the season: consistency.
“When the game starts I feel like 
we just gotta come out swinging,” cornerback Jalen Tabor said after the win. 
That hasn’t been the case for No. 
18 UF (4-1, 2-1 Southeastern Confer-ence) this season.
Except for their loss to Tennessee 
two weeks ago, the Gators haven’t scored on their ﬁ  rst possession. 
And when they did against the 
Volunteers, they faced a different problem: Coming out with the same intensity again in the second half.
Coach Jim McElwain tried to 
make sure that didn’t happen against 
Vanderbilt.
“He wanted us to come back 
out there in the second half and, you know, just punch them in the mouth,” running back Jordan Scar-
lett said.
While Florida’s defense contin-
ued to throttle the Commodores like McElwain wanted, its offense was just as inept in Saturday’s second half as it was in the ﬁ  rst.
Appleby and McElwain had vary-
ing theories as to why.
The coach said it was because PROBLEMS TO SOLVE 
SEE FOOTBALL PAGE 14
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
SEEDS OF CARING
Joaquin Stoneberger, 11 months old, reaches for an arrow leaf sage plant while he is held by his 
mother, Naima Stoneberger, 38, during Butterﬂ  yFest at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday morning. Naima Stoneberger said she “tries to come every year” because she likes the festival. It was her son’s ﬁ  rst time at the festival. See the photo story, page 3.
Staff Report
Gabriela Quadri spent just less 
than $13 Tuesday on what would 
become her last chicken Cobb sal-ad at The Jones, a popular down-town restaurant.
The 24-year-old UF alumna said 
the salad, typically served in a bio-degradable container, was handed to her in a Styrofoam bowl instead.
Aside from that, there were 
no signs that one of her favorite Gainesville restaurants would soon close.
But Saturday, it became ofﬁ  cial.
After 10 years in Gainesville and 
four years at 203 SW Second Ave., 
the restaurant announced it would permanently close. 
In a statement posted to the res-
taurant’s Facebook page, The Jones thanked its customers for years of loyalty and promised this would not be the last time they would hear 
its name around the city. However, amid allegations of mounting debt, 
ﬁ  rst reported by food-critic site Ken Eats Gainesville, the restaurant would not specify what led to the closure.
“Even though we have closed 
our doors for business you can expect to see our name as a brand of quality in this community,” the 
post read. “I don’t want to bore 
people with the ins and out(s) of small business struggles that led to our eventual close. Many will have (their) own stories as to what the jones (sic) was to them. All I can say for sure is that we rode until the wheels fell off. Thank you for being part of our family. Jones 
out.”
Quadri ate there twice a week 
for the last two years after discov-
ering their salads while eating with friends. Unlike other restaurants’ salads, she found The Jones’ chick-en Cobbs, topped with a hardboiled The Jones restaurant 
closes permanently  
By Alyssa Weiss
Alligator Contributing Writer
Diane Guerrero, known for her 
roles on “Orange is the New Black” 
and “Jane the Virgin,” will speak at UF about her new book today. 
Her book, “In the Country We 
Love: My Family Divided,” talks about 
Guerrero growing up in the U.S. after her parents were deported when she 
was 14 years old. UF journalism pro-fessor Mike Foley will interview her in the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom at 6:30 p.m. 
UF’s Hispanic Student Association 
paid $23,000 to bring Guerrero to UF 
for Hispanic Heritage Month, said Ga-
briella Nuñez, the executive director for Hispanic Heritage Month.The theme for Hispanic Heritage 
Month is “Embrace,” and Guerrero personiﬁ  es it, the 21-year-old UF jour-nalism senior said. The goal of the event is to “open minds and open hearts.”
“Diane embraces who she is,” Nu-
ñez said. “She’s not just a celebrity who made it big and forgot her roots. She’s a celebrity who uses her voice and her power to speak on behalf of her community.”
When Miranda Quiros, 19, saw on 
Facebook that Guerrero was coming to UF, she immediately clicked “going.”
“Once I realized it was a lead ac-
tress from ‘Jane the Virgin,’ I was 
really excited because I’ve seen the 
show, and I like it a lot,” the UF early childhood education sophomore said.  ‘Orange is the New Black’ actress speaking at UF todaySEE JONES,  PAGE 4
Guerrero
LOCALOfense stalls against Vanderbilt in winSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
'People on the Move'
An exhibit about the migrant 
crisis “People on the Move” 
is on display in the Pugh Hall Ocora  from today until Friday. The exhibit is sponsored by 
Welcoming Gainesville as part 
of Welcoming Week.
GatorWell ‘Yes Means Yes’
“Yes Means Yes” is a five-
week-long student-run sexual-ity seminar running in part-nership with UF's Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education and GatorWell. The objective is to create a space and opportunity for UF students to define consent, sexual assault and rape while also learning to think about and verbalize what a positive sexual experience means for them. “Yes Means Yes” is running each Monday from Oct. 10 to Nov. 7. It will have guest facilitators each week, and free food will be pro-vided. Applications are due to-day. Apply at gatorwell.wufoo.com/forms/qybh6y60pdkago.
Hippodrome political watch 
partiesJoin the Hippodrome State Theatre to watch the presiden-tial debates and election cov-erage. The Hippodrome base-ment will be open to the public for this free series. The parties will be Tuesday for the vice presidential debate, Sunday for the second presidential debate, Oct. 19 for the third presidential 
debate and Nov. 8 for election 
night. The bar will open 30 min-
utes before the parties begin. 
Americana-themed Hippodrome specials will be served. Grab 
your friends and a cocktail to 
enjoy this politically charged 
event (that’s all in good fun).
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. 
in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, 
go to talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org or the Talking Gators 
Facebook page. The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a learning experience in which 
members develop communica-
tion and leadership skills, re-
sulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.
Research Abroad for Graduate 
Students UF's International Center, the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School and the Office of the Provost are pleased to announce the 2016-2017 Research Abroad for Graduate Students fund-ing opportunity, open to doc-toral students to conduct an extended period of research at a foreign laboratory or field-site during Spring or Summer 2017. Applicants should submit all materials electronically to the Office for Global Research Engagement no later than 3 
p.m. Thursday. Please direct 
any questions to Sandra Russo 
at srusso@ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
Correction
Ponchos are available for UF students at eight locations on campus including the Student Health Care Center at 280 Fletcher Drive. The Alligator originally reported otherwise in an article published Sept. 30 un-der the headline “SG now offer-ing free ponchos on campus for students.”
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 30
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
The Florida Museum of Natural History hosted its 11th annual 
Butterﬂ  yFest on Saturday. The free event included workshops and activities for all ages and live butterﬂ  y releases. Visitors had the opportunity to learn about topics like butterﬂ  y gardening, native pollinators, conservation and backyard wildlife. The event also included a three-day plant sale from Friday until Sunday with more than 150 species for sale. FLUTTERING THROUGH 
THE FESTIVAL
Photos by Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Right: James Maher gazes at the hundreds of butterﬂ  ies inside the But-terﬂ  y Rainforest at the Florida Museum of Natural History on Saturday morning. His mother, Caroline Maher, 35, a member of the museum, said it was the 22-month-old’s ﬁ  rst time at Butterﬂ  yFest.
Naima Stoneberger, 38, walks through the plants holding her 11-month-old son, Joaquin Stoneberger, at the 
plant sale during Butterﬂ  yFest.Alivia Butler, 5, gets a butterﬂ  y painted on her face   at Butterﬂ  yFest outside the Florida Museum of Natural History. Her mother said they have been to the museum before. “(We) really enjoyed it, ” she said. “She loves butterﬂ  ies. ”HE SPOKE TO STUDENTS, 
FAMILIES ABOUT VOTING.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Jared Lamberg and his family 
were the first ones to greet Jason 
Collins on Turlington Plaza on 
Friday morning.
Collins, a former NBA player, 
came to UF on Friday afternoon 
to campaign for Hillary Clinton. 
Lamberg, a Philadelphia native, flew down for UF’s family week-end with his parents to visit his 
sister, Hannah, but he knew he 
had to meet the 7-foot-tall former Washington Wizards and Brook-
lyn Nets basketball player.
“He was actually shorter that 
I thought,” the 15-year-old said.
Lamberg was one of about 
a dozen others who stopped to speak with Collins, a guest of UF College Democrats. Collins, a firm supporter of Clinton in the up-coming election, said he wanted to encourage students to vote.
After taking a picture with Col-
lins, Lamberg said they spoke for 
a few minutes about the Philadel-
phia 76ers and politics.
“I’m a pretty open-minded 
guy,” Lamberg said. “I watched 
the debate, and I like to learn about the candidates. I can’t vote 
yet, but next time I will for sure.”
Voting in the upcoming elec-
tion is a civic duty — one that should be taken seriously, Collins said. 
“Being an African-American 
and a member of the LGBTQ community, people have died for my right to vote,” he said. “Now that we have this opportunity, we have to take advantage of it.”
He said speaking in Florida is 
especially important to him be-cause it is a major swing state. In Florida, the last day to register to vote is Oct. 11.
Collins is also known as being 
the first openly gay active basket-ball player in the NBA. In 2013, he shared his story with Sports Illustrated, and he has since ad-
vocated for the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity. He and his brother, also a 
retired NBA player, met Clinton’s daughter Chelsea at Stanford Uni-versity 20 years ago. Since then, 
he’s gotten to know the Clinton 
family. 
“We got to see the president 
and first lady at the time as mom 
and dad, and then over the years, 
as grandma and grandpa,” Collins 
said. 
He said this election is more 
important than ever, especially 
with so many U.S. Supreme Court justice seats at stake.
“I am a huge fan of Hillary,” 
Collins said. “She’s a trailblaz-er. I have a connection with the Clintons. She really deeply cares about all of us, not just some of us, and I think she would be an amazing president.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
egg, bacon and onion, especially filling.
“The first time I went was kind of a shot 
in the dark,” she said. “They turned me 
onto The Jones, and then it was love.”
On her hourlong lunch breaks from her 
job at Akira Wood Inc., a Gainesville archi-
tectural woodwork company, she would of-ten visit the restaurant for her favorite salad.
Though Quadri had heard of issues with 
roaches, which caused The Jones to tempo-rarily close in March, she said she was sur-prised it actually closed for good. 
During an inspection March 11, a health 
inspector found 11 live roaches on the cook line wall and wall fixtures behind a steam table, according to a report filed with the Florida Department of Business and Profes-sional Regulation. The manager killed the roaches on site, according to the report. But in its most recent inspection, on Aug. 1, the department reported the restaurant “met in-spection standards.”
Out of all the restaurants in Gainesville, 
only The Jones lived up to Quadri’s expecta-tions for a hearty salad, she said.
She even planned to share her favorite 
spot with some friends Friday, she said.
“I was kind of frustrated because that 
was my main salad to-go place,” she said. 
Abby Tannenbaum used to eat at The 
Jones at least once a month, but her last visit left her hungry and skeptical, she said.
About three weeks ago, The Jones re-
fused to serve the 21-year-old and her friend during normal business hours and appeared to be selling kitchen supplies, she said.
The UF political science senior said the 
situation was odd because she had never had problems with the service or food, de-spite hearing of its previous health-code violations. She said the closure was not sur-
prising.
“I’m not surprised, but I’m disappoint-
ed,” she said.
JONES,  from pg. 1The restaurant did not specify 
why it was closing for goodTHE PATCH INCLUDES 
A ZIP LINE AND A 
CORN MAZE.
By Haley Clement
Alligator Contributing Writer
Surrounded by acres of farm-
land, an unusual twist on an 
October tradition celebrated its 
opening day Saturday.
At Williston’s U Pick Lane 
Pumpkin Patch and Corn Maze, 
a family-run event at U Pick 
Lane farm, about 300 children 
and adults walked through an 8-acre corn maze, flew down a zip line and climbed atop a “Monsterbine Combine” ride.
Brad Etheridge, 41, the own-
er of the 600-acre farm, said he and his wife, Shannon, decided to turn their land into a seasonal 
attraction after seeing many of 
their friends do it.
“We have other friends that 
are in this same thing,” he said. “We know some friends that 
have a pumpkin patch, and we 
know some friends that have a corn maze — and we wanted to build it all together as one.”
The family has been on the 
farm for 19 years but has only recently decided to transform it into a business for October weekends, he said. Monthly col-
laborations with other farmers 
on the lane are in talk for the rest of the year.
The farm is open from 10 
a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturdays and from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. Sundays, according to the event’s web-site. General admission is $10 with part of the proceeds be-
ing donated to local ministries. Cards or cash are accepted.
On Saturday, some visitors 
spent nearly five hours on the 
farm trying to experience every-
thing, Etheridge said.
At one end of the farm, a 
converted harvesting machine 
— the “Monsterbine Combine” — ferried attendees around. 
Elsewhere, children stood inside 
a large tin barrel of corn kernels, which Etheridge called a corn bath. Further down, about 1,000 
pumpkins sat rooted to the 
ground, waiting to be picked.
For Sue Corbin, 65, of Wil-
liston, the main selling point for her granddaughter was the 
corn maze, which was trimmed 
to look like a cow when viewed from overhead.
“It’s been a very pleasant 
experience,” she said, adding that she would come again next year.
With the success of open-
ing day, Etheridge and his wife, 
Shannon, plan on turning the 
event into a family tradition, he said. 
Next year, he said they will 
expand their operation by grow-ing strawberries and squash in addition to pumpkins.
In the digital age when kids 
spend most of their time on 
their phones, Etheridge said 
he is motivated to provide this kind of outdoor, family-friendly entertainment for local children 
and their parents.
“There’s not a lot of opportu-
nities for urban kids to get out 
and enjoy simple things,” Ether-idge said. “There’s good, whole-
some fun here, and our family 
enjoys it.”Unusual pumpkin 
patch draws crowd
Alligator File Photo
After 10 years in Gainesville and four years at 203 SW Second Ave., the dowtown 
restarurant The Jones announced it would permanently close.
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Jason Collins sits in front of the UF College Democrats table on Turlington Plaza on Friday. Collins, along with students, registered people to vote and campaigned for Hillary Clinton.
First openly gay NBA player 
comes to UF to support Clinton MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
In an early-morning heist, a 
Gainesville man made off with two 
vacuums Friday, police said.
At about 6 
a.m., Barry Jo-
seph Mitchell, 
32, smashed the display window at National Vac-uum, located at 2225 NW Sixth 
St., before steal-ing the vacuums 
and leaving, according to a police 
report.
When police arrived at the store, 
they found one of the vacuums near-
by, but the other, a “very distinct purple ‘Dyson’-brand ball-shaped vacuum cleaner,” worth $600, was still missing, according to the report. 
Police then called nearby pawn 
shops, telling them to look out for 
the vacuum, according to the report. Exactly 10 minutes after notifying TB 
Goods Pawn shop in Gainesville, an associate at the store called police saying the vacuum had just shown up, according to the report. 
Officers arrived to find Mitchell 
trying to sell the device, which still 
had its price tag and paperwork from 
National Vacuum on it, according to the police report. The store’s owner identified it as the missing one.
Mitchell told police he was “being 
stupid” when he decided to steal the vacuums. Police would eventually find a pipe in his pants pocket that tested positive for crack cocaine.
Police arrested Mitchell on charg-
es of burglary to an unoccupied structure, grand theft between $300 and $4,999 and attempting to deal in stolen property, among others. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $22,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgMan steals vacuums, says 
he was “being stupid”By Klarizza Aggabao
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Hundreds gathered around Lake Wauburg to talk 
and eat pizza as they celebrated Filipino heritage Sun-
day. 
About 150 UF students celebrated the beginning 
of Filipino-American History Month. The opening ceremony featured musical performances and a brief history lesson of the Filipino-American culture in Florida.
UF’s Filipino Student Association hosted the an-
nual event to teach students about the culture, said Emilio Miguel Aragon, the organization’s vice presi-dent of cultural affairs. 
“Filipino-American History Month is mostly to 
commemorate the first Filipinos who came here and 
how they progress over time in America,” the 21-year-
old UF microbiology senior said. “We shouldn’t be tired of our culture. It basically creates our identity.”
The ceremony also started the ate/kuya/ading 
week. At the event, older members — ate for women 
or kuya for men — were matched with younger UF 
students, called adings. The older students mentor the younger students for the year. 
“Adings are like your little,” said Debbie Diep, a 20-year-old UF psychology junior. “Someone you take care of, kind of like your mentee.”
Diep met her adings, Ian Arcena, a UF mechanical 
engineering freshman, and Michael Mangalino, a UF psychology sophomore, for the first time at the event. 
Joco Mayo, the organization’s president, said he 
hopes students of all backgrounds learn about Fili-pino culture during the month.
“It’s not just about the Filipino people, it’s about 
the Filipino culture,” the 22-year-old UF health educa-tion and behavior senior said. UF students celebrate start of 
Filipino-American History Month
GATOR BOOTCAMP IS A 
SIX-SESSION PROGRAM.
By Kuvira Trisha Sanichara
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents who want to 
start a business can get a crash course 
in entrepreneurship at a workshop starting Saturday.
UF’s Entrepreneurship and Innova
-
tion Center will hold the first session of Gator Bootcamp for Entrepreneurs, a weekly six-session program that aims to help local residents who need assistance in jump-starting a business. 
It will be held at Gainesville Regional 
Utilities’ Administration Building’s Multipurpose Room from 8:30 a.m. to noon.
All six days cost a total of $600, 
said Michael Morris, a UF professor at the center. Those who cannot afford the workshop can apply for scholar
-
ships on the center’s website. 
Morris said he expects between 40 
and 50 people to register online for the sessions. UF faculty from Warrington College of Business will teach the workshops. 
At least one guest speaker each ses
-
sion will discuss an experience relating to that weeks’ topics, he said. These include “Bootcamp Basics: The Entre
-
preneurial Dream” and “Operations and Other Fundamentals that Matter.”
Morris said he hopes the event be
-
comes a tradition that helps Gainesville entrepreneurs. 
“I think it’s increasingly the goal 
of a modern university to be engaged with its community,” he said. “One 
has to look at universities not as just 
learning center, but as agents of eco
-
nomic and social change.”
Alex Ramos, a UF economics and 
business administration senior, said he thinks having Warrington professors teach the sessions will help those who 
attend. 
“(They) teach the courses in a way 
that makes it relevant to the business 
world today,” the 22-year-old said. “They stay up-to-date with everything that’s going on.”UF workshops to help 
local entrepreneurs
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
With climate change on their minds, 
about a dozen local residents attended a UF-
led panel Sunday to ask questions and get answers.
Held at the Straughn Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences Extension Professional Development Center, the live-streamed dis-cussion featured UF experts in the fields of immunology, sustainability and environ-mental engineering.
Some attendees — and those who tuned 
in online — voiced concerns that the city’s air quality, made worse by commercial ex-pansion, would worsen allergies and asthma.
Others wondered what scientists were do-
ing to improve air quality.
David Sistrand, a 62-year-old Archer resi-
dent, said he mainly wanted to know how climate change affects his family’s health.
“Let’s do something now and not wait,” 
he said.Robert Nedbor-Gross, a panel member 
and a UF doctoral candidate studying air quality, said that, in the past 25 years, tem-peratures in Florida have increased and sum-mer temperatures have extended by 50 days.
In response to a question about global-
warming skeptics, Nedbor-Gross said that kind of thinking prevents progress.
“Climate change is very real,” he said. 
“We’re about as sure that climate change is happening as we are that dinosaurs existed.”
Lisa Lundgren, a 27-year-old UF doctoral student who helped organize the event, said by opening the floor to residents, scientists could speak to them on a personal level and teach them about climate change and how they could mitigate its effects.
A second discussion, focused on water 
quality, will be held Oct. 26 at the Freedom Community Center, located at 7340 SW 41st Place, she said.
“I would say the purpose (of this event) 
is to get the community communicating with scientists,” she said.
At UF-led panel, GNV residents voice concerns about airEmma Green / Alligator Staff 
GETTING NUTTY AT THE PETTING ZOO
Vivienne Harding, 3, pets a goat during the 28th Annual Central Florida Peanut Festival in Willis-ton’s Heritage Park on Saturday.
UPCOMING CELEBRATIONS 
• Tuesday: “Paint the Wall” at Norman Hall at 7 p.m. 
• Wednesday: “FSA Idol” at 6:30 p.m.,  
location TBD
• Friday: Filipino Olympics on Hume Field at 6 p.m.
• Oct. 17: Asian Kaleidoscope Month Food Festival 
• Oct. 28: Closing Ceremony at Emerson Alumni Hall at 6 p.m.
Mitchell
CRIMEThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORTo my nephew: There will be choices to make
Nephew, I don’t want you to know a world 
made up in shades of one color. Blue like sad-
ness, like masculinity, like rigid gender norms and small minds. Really, I do not want you to grow up to be an a------.
Sure, I want you to be a man, but that means 
anything you want. It doesn’t mean the baseball bat your dad might give you, the truck-shaped bed they lay you in before they kiss your cheek and wish you good dreams. It means being human.
I will teach you about makeup if you want. 
Anything you want to learn is within your right. I will take you to free museums and the park where your mom cut her leg. I will give you all the knowledge I have.
I will not know how to respond when you say, “Those 
people. Those people think they can have anything.” Be-cause I will have no hand in raising a bigot.
My heart will clench and the narrator in my head will 
whisper, “You know, you little s---, your grandma who re-fuses to be called grandma is an immigrant too. And she doesn’t have a college education, no. But she bullied your mom when she was a little s---, too, to finish school so she could put food in your mouth while you sit at a table and 
maybe say, ‘Make America great again.’”
Whether someone uses Gigi or Glamma or any other stu-
pid name you will be forced to use because someone doesn’t 
see the value of age, he or she still had a grandma. Maybe his or her grandma was born here, or maybe not, but it is important to me that you know that fact is a scene in her his-tory, not her personality.
Nephew, I want to be there for you. I want to make you 
into a wonderful thinker, a kind human being and a lover 
of life.
I fear more than anything that you won’t be these things, 
that you won’t look at the world outside your block and hun-
ger to understand it. I worry that you won’t have things like Gatorship to teach you inclusivity.
How can I help you? How can I come to terms with the 
idea that maybe you won’t want to be a defender of justice? A part of me being there for you is letting you be you, but what if I don’t like who that is?
Nephew, I thought a lot about you — about 
your choices.
The ones you will and will not make. Will 
you be the kind of man who chooses to lock his 
door when a black man walks by? Will you see 
a girl cornered on a night out and keep walking, because you want to get to the bar before the mar-garita deal ends?
Will you be one of those men who, by choos-
ing nothing, chooses to hurt women like me? I want to love you. Not because you’re mine, you’re 
smart or your sprint time is Olympic-worthy. I want to love you for the individuality you cultivate in yourself.
An individual who isn’t worried about what others  
think of his or her life partner. I have thought about this more than I have thought about my own coming out. I know that’s odd, but I am sad that you might have to think about com-ing out at all. I’m sad that they already painted your room that suffocating blue, with a tiny baseball wrapped in Mar-lins colors.
Will you cry to me? Nephew, I want you to not be afraid of 
your emotions. You will make decisions worth crying over, 
worth sobbing and laughing, and that is no shame to you.
Nephew, you will be faced with choice after choice, and 
so will I.
For those of us with the chance to be around in the future, 
what will we say? We have the opportunity to make future 
Gators better than us. When we bring children into the world the same way we were brought in, what are we really doing? Mistakes get repeated so easily when we choose not to be critical.
This Thanksgiving I will have another family member to 
welcome. I will not make the same mistakes with him. I will struggle with my desire to make him a decent person, and the need to give him space to grow, but there will always be choice in my house. There will be dialogue and respect.
Nephew, I hope that’s enough.Brooke Henderson is a UF journalism and international 
studies sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
You’re the chosen 
one? Trump’s dark-
sided candidacy
Perhaps one of the biggest reasons the “Star Wars” franchise is 
so well-celebrated is its character depth. In the latest installment, “The Force Awakens,” the two protagonists meet Han Solo and ask themselves whether he is a “war hero” or a “smuggler.” It’s a chuckle-inducing conversation. We remember the quasi-duality 
of Han Solo in the original trilogy. He was a renegade, a drinker, a 
gamblin’ man and a cheat. Solo, while certainly a pretty face, had all the charisma and romantic prowess of a drunken fraternity brother. His irresponsibility, lack of foresight and self-important cavalier attitude expressed arrogance and a blatant disregard for other people’s lives. Said plainly: Han Solo was kind of a d-----. More “smuggler” than “war hero,” without a doubt.
Keep that in mind as we move to another amazing piece of 
“Star Wars” history. In “Revenge of the Sith,” Padme Amidala 
sits at a hearing where the Galactic Senate decides to shift power 
into Emperor Palpatine’s hands. As the Republic fades away, the camera zooms in on her watery eyes. “So this is how democracy ends,” she whispers. “With thunderous applause.”
Lately, a lot of morally ambiguous characters are getting 
themselves some of that democracy-hating thunderous applause. With The New York Times officially ending the question of Don-ald Trump’s tax returns, we can finally rest easy in knowing all of our predictions were right. The Don, in fact, has worked around 
tax law enough that in 1995, he declared a loss so large he would 
not have to pay federal income taxes for the next 18 years. 
Now, why is this morally ambiguous? Well, the answer is be-
cause it was well within the bounds of the law. According to the article, after he gruesomely mismanaged several different busi-ness endeavors, he filed a $916 million loss to nullify any equiva-lent taxable income in an 18-year period. As we learn when we are children, just because you can do something doesn’t mean you should. Unsurprisingly, Trump has yet to release his tax 
returns, a practice most candidates have engaged in since the 
’70s. This is probably because he’s been taking advantage of this loophole. Regardless, many Trump supporters are unbelievably suspect to this narrative. So many people are behind him while he advocates for stop-and-frisk, “law and order” and the blatant suspension of due process, the most fundamental legal right. Ba-sically, there is thunderous applause behind him while he stands and advocates the dismantling of our Constitution, the backbone of our democracy. Of all the lies Trump has said, of all the hor-
rible, degrading, demeaning things he’s uttered, there’s one thing 
on which this editorial board agrees with him: When he said he “could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and (he) wouldn’t lose voters,” he’s right. There is no political move so dirty, no level of business malpractice, no insult so de-grading, that would deter his base from voting for him. 
When Anakin Skywalker switches his allegiance over from 
the Jedi Order to the Dark Side, this is how he viewed Emperor Palpatine. Someone who could save him from the perceived cha-
os he felt he was going to meet. Palpatine offered him a way to 
save himself and those he loved from the grips of otherwise harsh truths. That he would #MAGA — Make Anakin Great Again. But Palpatine was really motivated by greed, a lust for power and Anakin’s boyish charm (it’s actually weird, George Lucas). 
There’s a lot we can learn from “Star Wars” and the para-
doxical story line, which seems vague enough to apply across the board but detailed enough to make us feel and recognize things happening around us. We are surrounded by shadowy political 
figures who validate the personal fears of our future. Remember, 
fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. Hate leads to suffering.
Brooke  
Henderson
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
How many times have we been told, 
“You get out what you put in”? This applies to so many aspects of 
life, from friendships and roman-
tic relationships to academics and 
physical fitness. The validity of this state-ment is widely accepted; it is honestly diffi-
cult to dispute. It’s logical, and it continues 
to prove itself right, time after time.
I’d like to introduce a slightly less well-
known concept: the idea that you receive what you project. This is related less to 
effort and more to attitude. If you project 
a positive attitude, you’re likely to expe-rience positive interactions from others. If you develop a negative attitude, people 
will probably respond negatively. Seems 
simple, right? You’d think. But for a lot of people, this is a real challenge.
Having a hard time putting this con-
cept into practice does not make you a 
bad person. Everyone struggles with this from time to time. People grow 
angry when others are rude to them. While this seems like an 
entirely reasonable response,  
it only perpetuates the ill feel-
ings. The person may be acting rudely because they feel threat-
ened or perceive (correctly or 
incorrectly) your attitude as rude. They may feel judged or feel a lack of approval. Each individual has a different defense mechanism for dealing 
with these feelings, and each individual 
has the capacity to both understand this and help prevent the need for it in the first place.
Beyond just moods, we project our dis-
position. Most importantly, we project our care for others. This is our most valuable asset as humans. Our ability to care for  
and be there for each other is more im-
portant than anything we could ever hope to accomplish. As we consider 
what we project, we realize we are ultimately responsible for 
not only what we receive but 
also what every other person receives.
All too often, we are too 
wrapped up in ourselves to un-derstand others. It seems like an issue of selfishness, but ac-
tually we may be selling ourselves short. How often do you consider that the most  
insignificant act of your day may and probably does mean far more to another person? An angry word or rude glare can easily be forgotten by you, but it could  
ruin another person’s day, and a kind ex-change or a seemingly inconsequential compliment could mean far more to some-one than you could ever comprehend. While we may be quick to write ourselves 
off as trivial in the grand scheme of the world, this could not be farther from the 
truth.
If we project a care for others and for 
ourselves, the same will come to us. You may feel this statement is false if the re-sults are not immediate and continuous. Sure, there will be bumps in the road at 
times. This is understandable, but it is not 
a reason to give up. We focus on current issues, but human interaction is something that will never cease to be important. We should treat it as such and put the appro-
priate energy into preserving its impor-
tance. 
By projecting the suitable attitude to-
ward both this idea and one another, we 
can make a more pleasant world in which 
we humans all receive and feel the dignity and acceptance we deserve. 
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column ap-
pears on Mondays.
The summer before my first year at 
Brown, I remember people in the Class of 2018 Facebook group creating a long-distance relationship support page. It was called “Love Shows no Bounds” or 
“Miles of Love” or something equally cheesy. The comments section included a wide range of opinions, from “Dude, you should dump your girlfriend. She can’t date you from Chi-na!” to “I plan on enduring five-hour-long train rides and sending snail mail gift packages.” A year ago, I would have agreed with the former comment.
But through my experiences — including 
learning from my hypocrisy — it’s clear that long-distance relationships don’t deserve the bad rap they get. It’s a common misconception among college students that these relationships aren’t sustainable because they require too much effort and unreasonable commitment. But the reality is much fuzzier, and these nega-tive attitudes promote an unhealthy message about meaningful relationships.
One of the biggest arguments against long 
distance is the prolonged separation, which can be difficult if not painful. Travel expenses, travel time, scheduling differences and, in some cases, time-zone dif-ferences create additional hurdles. In many ways, the comment I saw on Facebook disparaging a trans-na-
tional relationship was justified. An-
other perceived disadvantage is the overwhelming amount of effort it takes to stay in touch with your sig-nificant other. As a college student, it’s hard enough to juggle course-work, extracurriculars and a social life  — anything more may seem impossible. 
Finally, there’s the perception that there’s an 
increased risk of infidelity, sustained by the cir-
culation of heartbreaking tales and unhealthy stereotypes about long-term commitment. But none of these biases against long-distance rela-tionships tell the whole story.
At this stage in our lives, most teens and 
20-somethings have the emotional capacity necessary to overcome such hurdles. Many students have overcome much more difficult 
challenges during their college experience, 
though not always voluntarily. We shouldn’t assume that just because a relationship is dif-ficult or less convenient, young people will throw it away and move on to the next option without a sec-ond thought. My peers are not so irresponsible. Such assumptions, 
while often exacerbated by “hookup 
culture," are unfair and set an em-barrassingly low standard for the attitudes people should have when approaching romantic relationships.
College-aged students, whose 
status grants them ample freedom 
and autonomy, are able to make mature deci-sions regarding their relationships — and many 
of them do. The decision often isn’t as simple 
as choosing to stay or leave someone based on distance alone. The disgruntled student en-couraging his peer to dump his or her partner because they couldn’t date across borders is unrepresentative of how people actually make decisions. Relationships are more complicated than that. To view it in such absolute terms is an insult to the sensitivity and compassion 
involved in these situations.
Many of the couples who do choose to go 
through with long-distance relationships end up having mature, satisfying relationships. In 
fact, they often discover advantages that aren’t otherwise present. Those engaging in long-dis-tance relationships learn to cherish and value every moment they spend with their partner. 
They also learn how to cope when their part-
ner isn’t physically there, eliminating the risk of partner-dependency or clinginess. It can also be relieving to have an off-campus part-ner to serve as an objective listener and offer advice as you experience stress and drama within your own social group. Ultimately, long distance can make relationships stronger and more mature by giving individuals the skills 
they need to both love someone else and re-
main autonomous and self-driven.
It’s ironic that some question the capacity 
for maturity among college-age students who pursue such relationships, when in reality, their greatest benefit can be their authenticity. Partners who choose to stay dedicated to each other regardless of distance demonstrate both maturity and genuineness.
A version of this column by Samantha 
Savello originally ran in The Brown Daily 
Herald. Be positive, and be treated positively: People receive what they project
In defense of long-distance relationships during your collegiate yearsColumn
UWireT aylor Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
Samantha 
Savello
UWire
8   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Apples and honey laid in front 
of about 400 people celebrating 
Rosh Hashana, the Jewish new 
year, at UF’s Lubavitch-Chabad 
Jewish Student and Community Center on Sunday night. 
Rosh Hashana celebrates the 
anniversary of Earth’s creation, said Chanie Goldman, the center’s co-director. Members of the Jew-ish community eat apples dipped in honey during the holiday to 
symbolize sweetness for the up-
coming year. During the 10 days between Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur, Jews will ask forgiveness 
for their sins as they go into the 
new year. 
“Rosh Hashana, we’re told, is 
a day our prognosis for the year is written down,” Goldman said, 
adding that the holidays bring re-
pentance and a closer relationship to God. 
The holiday is held on the first 
day of the Jewish month of Tishri, the anniversary of when God cre-ated man, she said. 
UF students filed into the syna-
gogue clutching prayer books in 
preparation for the service, which was given entirely in Hebrew. 
Men and women were separated 
by a divider in the middle of the 
room, and friends chatted as they ate round loaves of  braided chal-lah bread. 
Yael Diamond, a UF political 
science and international studies freshman, said she was excited for the brisket served during the after-service meal. She said Rosh 
Hashana and Yom Kippur feel ho-
lier than the rest of the year. 
“You feel a lot closer (to God) 
afterwards,” the 19-year-old said. “Usually I spend this time with my 
family.” Despite being away from home, 
she said she will continue cele-
brating the holiday with upcoming services at UF Chabad. 
Diamond and her friend, Kayla 
Steinmetz, said it was their first Rosh Hashana spent away from their families. 
“I’ve always gone to temple for 
the high holidays and it’s pretty important to my family,” said Steinmetz, an 18-year-old UF ani-mal sciences freshman.
This year’s holiday marked 
the Earth’s 5,777th birthday, ac-cording to the Jewish calendar, said Rabbi Berl Goldman. Before 
the service, Rabbi Goldman told 
students the holiday symbolizes sweetness, forgiveness and prayer. He encouraged students to 
think about God throughout the year, especially with the upcom-ing U.S. presidential election.
Matt Freedman, a UF account-
ing freshman, said it was his first time visiting the center. 
“I’m just very religious, and I 
always celebrate back at home in Long Island,” the 18-year-old said. 
Freedman said it was important 
to take time to celebrate the holi-day. 
“You get to start a brand new 
year, and you get to wipe away all your sins,” he said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org 
UF students, GNV residents celebrate Rosh Hashana
Jewish students grab books for Rosh Hashana, or the Jewish new year, before the service be-
gan at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center. Rabbi Berl Goldman led this year’s service.
Nineteen-year-old Julia Sabra, a UF family youth and community scienc-es sophomore, plays the guitar during UF Hillel’s Rosh Hashana service. 
Ari Grossman, 2, attempts to slice an apple before putting honey on it. Apples and honey are eaten to bring in a “sweet” new year.
It’s the Jewish new year holiday
Photos by Grace King, Alligator Staff MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
A Jewish woman lights candles to start the Jewish new year at the 
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center on Sunday evening.
 About 400 people attended the event at the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center on Sunday evening. Men and women sat at opposite ends of the room for the holiday service and dinner.
Rabbi Berl Goldman addresses the members and the attendees of the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center’s Rosh Hashana service during the Jewish new year holiday.
UF Hillel2020 W. University Ave.
T oday
• Morning services: 10:30 a.m. to noon
• Brunch: noon to 1 p.m.
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center2021 NW Fifth Ave., unless otherwise speciﬁ  ed
T oday
• Morning services: 10 a.m.
• Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and Kiddush lunch
• T ashlich waterfront service: 5:30 p.m. at 
UF’s Baughman Center
• Evening service: 8 p.m. followed by holiday dinner
Tuesday
• Morning services: 10 a.m.
• Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and Kiddush lunch
Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and 
Morning services: 10:30 a.m. to noon
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center
2021 NW Fifth Ave., unless otherwise speciﬁ  ed
Morning services: 10 a.m.
Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and 
T ashlich waterfront service: 5:30 p.m. at 
Evening service: 8 p.m. followed by holiday dinner
Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and 
Rabbi Berl Goldman addresses the members and the attendees of 
the Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center’s Rosh 
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center
Lubavitch-Chabad Jewish Student and Community Center
Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and 
Evening service: 8 p.m. followed by holiday dinner
Shofar blowing: 12:30 p.m. followed by Mussaf and 
ROSH HASHANA
EVENTSMONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  
Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-
ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. 
Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-5-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedMONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Hospital IV amts.
4 Irrational fear
sufferer’s suffix
9 Texas city
13 Until now14 Specialized
language
15 Dashing style
16 Expose
wrongdoing
19 Gymnast Korbut
20 Choose by
majority vote
21 Wok cook’s
flavoring
23 Attacked by
surprise
26 Baseball card
stat
27 Day, in Durango
28 MBA hopeful’s
test
29 Take a break
32 Lead singer’s
part
34 “No need to
explain the joke”
36 Is obliged to pay37 With the breeze
at your back, insailing
41 Creative fields42 Feathers43 Hot chocolate
drinks
46 Actor Morales47 Braz. neighbor
50 Astounded state
51 What it takes to
tango
53 Maple syrup
rating
55 Bank acct.
earnings
56 Peddler’s
merchandise
59 Like “Supergirl,”
ratings-wise
60 Where the driver
sits
64 Decimated Asian
sea
65 Budget prefix
66 Genetics lab
subj.
67 Audacity68 __ Island69 Incidentally, in
texting ... and ahint to three longpuzzle answers
DOWN
1 RoboCop is one2 Wine storage
area
3 Inferior cigar
4 Compliment “on
the back”
5 Princely letters6 S-shaped
molding
7 Soup serving8 Out-of-use
anesthetic
9 White terrier,
familiarly
10 Ctrl-__-Del: PC
reboot combo
11 “You’re getting
too excited”
12 Like a 45-10
football game
17 Roll of bills18 Long-range nuke22 Many pride
paradeparticipants
24 Therefore
25 Bucks and does
30 Instructions
component
31 “Superman,” e.g.33 Superman lover
Lane
34 “In that case ... ”
35 Consequently
37 Lunchbox
alternative38 And so forth39 Cyberzine40 Small dam41 Berry rich in
antioxidants
44 Whenever you
want to
45 Ugly duckling, as
we learn later
47 “-ly” word,
usually
48 Admonition to a
sinner49 Act that
suppresses freespeech
52 What an unruly
courtroom lacks
54 Part of NCAA:
Abbr.
57 Carve in stone58 Chase off61 Evil film computer
62 Last in a
sequence
63 “__ is me!”
By Jake Braun©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/03/1610/03/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 3, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. Name the last team before the 
Toronto Blue Jays in 2015 to have two 
winning streaks of at least 11 games in 
the same season?
2. In 2015, Texas pitcher Yovani 
Gallardo became the fourth native of Mexico to win at least 100 major-league games. Name two of the first 
three to do it.
3. In what sport other than football is 
legendary running back Jim Brown a member of a Hall of Fame?
4. In 2015, Denzel Valentine became 
the fourth player in Michigan State 
men’s basketball history to have a triple-double in a game. Name two of the first three to do it.
5. Which country has won the most 
Ice Hockey World Championships?
6. In 2016, bowler Jesper Svensson, 
20, became the youngest player to win the PBA’s Tournament of Champions. Who had been the youngest?
7. Between 2000 and 2016, how 
many horses won the first two races (Kentucky Derby, Preakness Stakes) 
of the Triple Crown?
Answers
1. The Cleveland Indians, in 1954.2. Fernando Valenzuela (173 victo-
ries), Esteban Loaiza (126) and Isma-
el Valdez (104).
3. The Lacrosse Hall of Fame.4. Magic Johnson, Draymond Green 
and Charlie Bell.
5. The combined Soviet Union/
Russian team has 27 world champion-ships. Canada has 26.
6. Marshall Holman was 21 when he 
won the event in 1976.
7. Seven — War Emblem (2002), 
Funny Cide (‘03), Smarty Jones (‘04), Big Brown (‘08), I’ll Have Another (‘12), California Chrome (‘14) and American Pharoah (‘15).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 26, 2016 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/AWESOME OPPORTUNITY! Seeking a heart-
centered person to work part time with amaz -
ing 23-year old with developmental disabilities. (Nov-May) Must have reliable transportation, a keen interest in providing fun and adventurous activities. Looking for an upbeat, reliable and 
mature person. $13-$15/hr. email: Knoidal@
gmail.com     10-5-3-14
PT janitorial office/home/apartment cleaners 
needed ASAP day and night shifts available. Weekly pay and gas distributed $8.50/hr and must own and drive own car..If interested please call 352-214-0868      10-3-16-5-14
DATA MINING RESEARCHER WANTEDPT, work your own hours.Paid per job / project.Email resume: jholifield1@gmail.com    10-3-3-14
HELP WANTED
HARVESTING CHESTNUTS
Pay $20 per 5 gal bucket. 20814 NW CR 
2054 Alachua. Call 352-213-2239    10-6-5-
14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 22 Tickets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Savannah Jordan and the UF 
soccer team play at home this week.See this week's Florida sports schedule, pg. 16Florida football climbs in AP poll
For the first time since 2013, Florida is ranked above Florida State in The 
Associated Press T op 25 poll. The new poll released Sunday has the Gators 
at No. 18 while the Seminoles are at No. 23. UF entered the weekend ranked No. 23. MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
With nearly all of Florida’s start-
ing defensive lineman injured, many 
younger players were forced to 
step up in Saturday’s 13-6 win over Vanderbilt.
And the inexperience showed.VU running back Ralph Webb 
sliced through gaps repeatedly, rush-
ing for 110 yards on 24 carries. Ad-
ditionally, Florida recorded just two sacks — one by the defensive line 
— despite entering the game with a 
Southeastern Conference-leading 17 sacks.
“I think this was a great game for 
them,” McElwain said of his younger players. “I’m not saying they played 
particularly well, but they’re gonna 
have a great opportunity to see themselves on film and learn how to 
control blockers.”
Joey Ivie and Jordan Sherit didn’t 
play due to injuries, and Bryan Cox Jr. played limited action. In the third 
quarter, Caleb Brantley missed snaps after suffering a left wrist injury.
The injuries gave way to under-
classmen like Jabari Zuniga, Jachai Polite, Khairi Clark, Keivonnis Davis 
and Antonneous Clayton.
While some of them struggled, 
CeCe Jefferson played well. The sophomore racked up four tackles, 
most among the defensive linemen.
“He played end and tackle today. 
He’s an athlete,” Brantley said. “It’s self explanatory. He’s an athlete and he balls. That’s what he does, he 
gets after it.”
Davis has career day:Linebacker Jarrad Davis an-
chored Florida’s defense in more 
ways than one on Saturday.
The senior tallied a career-high 15 
tackles and added three pass break-ups. The last pass breakup proved to be the most important.
With VU quarterback Wade Free-
beck marching downfield looking to tie the game up in the final minute, Davis tipped a pass while in cover-age. The ball landed in the hands of safety Nick Washington for his first 
career interception.
Davis, who covered the same 
play earlier in the game, knew the play was coming.
“Last time I tried to knock it 
down,” he said. “I tried to go up and 
catch this one, but it bounced out of my hands, tipped up, and Nick caught it and saved the day.”
Townsend the unsung hero:Johnny Townsend may have Young D-linemen gain experience in win over VandyNOTEBOOK
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
From left: Linebacker Alex Anzalone and defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson look at Florida fans in the crowd during UF's 13-6 win over 
Vanderbilt on Saturday at Vanderbilt Stadium. Anzalone and Jefferson combined for 10 total tackles in the win.
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
 
After a strong start to the fourth 
set, the No. 5 Florida volleyball team was tied with Tennessee at 20. 
That’s when everything clicked.The Gators (13-2, 3-1 Southeast
-ern Conference) went on a 5-0 run to close out the set and win the match 3-1. 
“It’s going for it,” junior libero 
Caroline Knop said. “Mary (Wise) talked a lot today about just going for it.”
In the final set, a one-handed dig by Knop led to an attack error by UT hitter Kanisha Jimenez and 
sent the home crowd into a frenzy. 
It gave Florida the push it lacked in Wednesday’s loss to Kentucky.
“We wanted to play Thursday 
afternoon,” Knop said. “When we came into practice, we were ready to play this Tennessee team.”
The first set opened evenly, with 
both teams trading blows until they were even at 19. Freshman middle blocker Rachael Kramer stepped up, 
earning 5 kills with a .667 hitting 
percentage in the set. Florida closed out the set 25-21 after two crucial kills by senior right side hitter Alex Holston.
A similar theme began the second 
set, but Tennessee (10-6, 1-3 SEC) took advantage of seven UF errors UF volleyball bounces back with 3-1 win over Tennessee
Florida improved to 13-2SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15Knop
14   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
the team failed to overcome negative 
plays, while the quarterback said it had more to do with making plays on first down.
“When we win on first down and 
we get our tempo going, we can be prolific, as everyone’s seen,” Apple-by said. 
“But when we don’t score and 
we’re turning the ball over and put-ting our defense back out there early, you know, that’s tough.”
Appleby said the team needs 
to have more plays like his fourth-quarter, 33-yard toss to tight end C’yontai Lewis — UF’s longest play of the game.
“It’s all about winning on first 
down,” the quarterback said. “That was a first-down call.”
But Florida’s main problem lies in 
its lack of consistency. 
The Gators scored 45 points 
against Kentucky and 21 in the first half against Tennessee, yet scored only 20 points over their next six 
quarters combined.
Some of the inconsistency may be 
attributed to Florida’s quarterback 
position, where the Gators were forced to turn to Appleby after Luke Del Rio was injured against North Texas on Sept. 17. Both players have had good and bad moments. 
For example, despite recent 
struggles, Appleby  managed to pro-duce against Tennessee in the first 
half, passing for two touchdowns. 
Similarly, while Del Rio — whose status for this weekend is uncertain — failed to ignite the offense against UMass, he torched Kentucky with  320 yards and four touchdowns.
But Florida’s issues may go far-
ther than the quarterback position. And in the coming week, the team 
will try to resolve them.  
“We’re not going to be able to 
come out and go slow,” linebacker 
Jarrad Davis said. 
“We have to come with exactly 
what we’re going to bring every snap, every quarter. We can’t start in the second quarter. It can’t start in the third quarter.”
And while McElwain preaches 
that message every week, there’s added motivation for Florida to fix its consistency problems before this weekend.
It’ll face rival LSU — which it 
hasn’t beaten since 2012 — at home on Saturday.
“I don’t want to say it’s a differ-
ent mindset,” Tabor said of facing 
the Tigers, “but it is.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1Del Rio’s status is uncertain
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Florida tight end DeAndre Goolsby runs toward the end zone during Florida’s 13-6 win 
over Vanderbilt on Saturday in Nashville. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Vanderbilt linebacker Oren Burks (20) tackles Florida quarterback Austin Appleby (12) during UF’s win on Saturday. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Tight end C’yontai Lewis (left) talks with Florida athletics director Jeremy Foley after Saturday’s game. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
HORSFIELD LEADS FLORIDA IN 
THIRD PLACE.
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Following the worst performance of his col-
legiate career, sophomore Sam Horsfield knew 
he needed a bounce-back tournament.
A 14-over-par score placed Horsfield in a tie 
for 54th place at the Windon Memorial Classic last week, a situation he hasn’t really been in.
And with the Nike Golf Collegiate Invita-
tional starting on Sunday, the Davenport na-
tive had only a week to get back into the right 
state of mind.
And he did.After the first day of the tournament, Hors-
field shined and paved the way for a strong Gator showing, tied for third with a 3-under-
par score with four birdies and a bogey. He 
was the only Gator to score under par.
Backed by Horsfield’s play, the Florida 
men’s golf team is sitting in third place at 3 un-der par, four strokes behind tournament leader Oklahoma.
“It just shows what (Horsfield’s) made of,” 
coach J.C. Deacon said in a release. “He went 
home and had a great week of preparation, re-
ally got focused. He played great today.”
While only one Gator finished below par, 
three more Gators – juniors Ryan Celano and 
Alejandro Tosti and sophomore Jorge Garcia –  scored even par and are tied for 16th.
Celano, the team leader in birdies (24), 
added two more to that total, but also carded two bogeys.
Tosti led the team in birdies on the day, 
railing off five while adding five bogeys to his 
score.
And Garcia tallied three birdies and one 
bogey, but a double bogey on the 13th hole 
evened out his score.
Sophomore Gordon Neale, the team leader at the Windon Memorial Classic, had finished 
even or under par in his first six rounds of the season before the Nike Golf Collegiate Invita-
tional.
But on Sunday, he broke that streak with 
a 2-over-par performance and sits in a tie for 34th. He carded three birdies, three bogeys and 
a double bogey.“We just have to keep doing the same 
things — focus on what we can control, tak-ing care of our own business and getting off 
to good starts,” Deacon said. “That’s what it’s going to be for this team.
“We have unbelievable talent, we just need 
to take care of what each individual can con-
trol and we’re going to be in a great spot.”Horsfield is just one stroke behind leader 
Blaine Hale from Oklahoma heading into the 
second round today. Neale starts the action for 
Florida when he tees off at 9:30 a.m.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgHorsfield, Gators start strong at Nike Golf Intercollegiate
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Sam Horsfield swings during the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
to create a cushion between the two 
teams and took the set 25-19.
“I thought the team had to have a 
major gut check after set two,” Flori -
da coach Mary Wise said.
With the match tied at one, the 
Gators started to take control thanks to the veteran play of Holston and juniors Carli Snyder and Rhamat Al
-
hassan. The three combined for 40 of Florida’s 63 kills.
Redshirt junior Shainah Joseph 
impacted the game as well. 
The outside hitter tallied nine kills 
and provided a spark in late game situations, including the final kill in the third set.
The Gators now have a full week 
off before another early Sunday matchup against South Carolina.
This will mark the first full week 
of practice and rest for the Gators since their Aug. 27 match against Or
-
egon.
“It’s amazing that we were able to 
get through with the record that we have, Wise said.
“That really speaks volumes about 
this group.”
 
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg 13Florida plays South Carolina next Sunday
been Florida’s best offensive player 
Saturday.
The punter was routinely called 
upon to flip the field after three-and-outs and stalled drives, and he de-
livered. Five of Townsend’s seven 
punts went for 50 or more yards, four of which pinned the Commo-
dores inside their 20-yard line.
“Where last week we just lost 
the field position battle, the hidden yardage I think was in our favor this 
week,” McElwain said. “Johnny did a good job.”
Appleby's favorite target:Tight end DeAndre Goolsby and 
quarterback Austin Appleby found a rhythm together early and didn’t stop.
Goolsby, who finished with 37 
yards, recorded eight catches — the most by a UF tight end in a game 
since the 2009 SEC Championship 
game. The mark was also one shy of tying the single-game school record 
held by three other Gators.
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgNOTEBOOK,  from pg 13Goolsby had 
eight catches
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mary Wise talks to her team at a timeout during UF's 3-1 win over Marshall on 
Sept. 17 at the Lemerand Athletic Center.
16   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2016
Ariana Figueroa / Alligator
Florida fans stand at Vanderbilt Stadium during UF’s 13-6 win on Saturday. The announced attendance 
was 30,565, and about half of them wore orange and blue. 
MONDAY:
• Women’s Golf @ Windy City 
Classic
• Men’s Golf @ Nike Golf Collegiate Invitational, All Day
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-
American, Day 3 (Qualifying), 
TBA
• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA 
All American Championships 
(Qualifying), All Day
TUESDAY: 
• Women’s Golf @ Windy City Classic 
• Men’s Golf @ Nike Golf Collegiate Invitational, All Day
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-
American, Day 4 (Qualifying), 
TBA
• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA All American Championships (Qualifying), All Day
WEDNESDAY : 
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-American, Day 5 (Qualifying), 
TBA
• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA 
All American Championships 
(Qualifying), All Day
THURSDAY : 
• Soccer vs. Georgia, 6 p.m., SEC 
Network+
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-American, Day 6, TBA• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA All American Championships 
(Qualifying), All Day
FRIDAY : 
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-
American, Day 7, TBA
• Men’s T ennis @ Georgia T ech 
Invitational 
• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA All American Championships 
(Main Draw), All Day
SATURDAY : 
• Football vs. LSU, noon, ESPN 
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-
American, Day 8, TBA
• Men’s T ennis @ Georgia T ech 
Invitational, Day 2
• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA 
All American Championships 
(Main Draw), All Day
SUNDAY : 
• Soccer @ Ole Miss, 6 p.m., SEC Network 
• Men’s T ennis @ ITA All-American, Day 9, TBA
• Men’s T ennis @ Georgia T ech Invitational, Day 3
• Women’s T ennis @ Riviera ITA 
All American Championships 
(Main Draw), All Day
• Volleyball @ South Carolina, noon, SEC NetworkTHIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS