We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 70 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
UF basketball defeats UNF
Mike White and the Gators
 improved to 7-1, pg. 14
Locals to attend inauguration to protest
Dozens of Gainesville residents plan to march on Washington, D.C., pg. 3
UF trustees support UF development
They voted to support a 50-year plan , pg. 5Gainesville planning for Santa
 City collects letters, planning festivities, pg. 5
         By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
If the Gators score Saturday, 
free alcohol will ﬂ  ow at 101 Can-
tina.Patrons of the restaurant and 
bar will receive free orange-and-blue shots every time the UF 
football team scores against the 
University of Alabama during the SEC Championship game, be it a ﬁ  eld goal or a touchdown.
The game, in which UF is a 
24-point underdog, begins at 4 
p.m. in Atlanta.
Although some fans chuck-
led at the notion that the Gators would score often against the 
Crimson Tide, Erik Zika, a co-owner of Cantina, said the pro-
motion is a way to celebrate UF’s 
football season — not mock it.
“To us, it’s not about the money,” Zika said. “It’s to have a good party and to have a good time.”
With Saturday marking the last 
game of UF’s regular season, Zika said the event will be a way for 
students and residents to send the 
team off with a bang.101 Cantina to give out free drinks during SEC Championship
IT WAS THE SECOND TIME HE 
HAS SPOKEN TO THE CLASS 
IN PERSON. 
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Contributing Writer
A former NFL player came to UF 
on Thursday and invited more than 
250 students to lunch. 
Chad “Ochocinco” Johnson, who 
played for the Cincinnati Bengals, was a guest speaker in UF journal-
ism professor Ted Spiker’s Sports Me-
dia and Society class. It was the ﬁ  fth year Johnson was a speaker and the second in a row he invited students 
to lunch. About 100 of them joined 
Johnson after class at The Swamp Restaurant, Spiker said. 
“He doesn’t need to do that, but he 
decides to share a little bit of his life,” Spiker said.
In 2012, Spiker had his class bom-
bard Johnson on Twitter, asking him to video chat with them. He did.
Spiker said he invited Johnson 
back because he was one of the ﬁ  rst athletes to embrace social media. This year, Johnson spoke about his domes-
tic violence incident in 2012, which 
received a lot of media attention. Spiker said the story shows students that all actions have consequences.
“He doesn’t care what you think 
about what he says, and I think that’s a very important lesson for students — to be true to who you are,” Spiker said.
Jovani Pastrana, a UF ﬁ  nance 
freshman, stood up and challenged Johnson during his visit Thursday to a “FIFA” video-game match after 
Johnson claimed he was a “‘FIFA’ 
king.” 
The two ended up playing at an 
off-campus Pi Lambda Phi Fraternity 
house for four hours, Pastrana said. 
“He takes time out of his day 
to make other people’s days,” the 
18-year-old said. “He’s very giving.”Former NFL player Chad Johnson visits UF, treats students to lunch
Johnson
GOING WITH THE FLOW
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Krista Kingsbury, a 19-year-old UF botany sophomore, spins an illuminated Hula-Hoop on the Plaza of 
the Americas on Thursday night. Kingsbury is part of Ambience Flow and Performance Arts, a student organization that formed this Fall and meets every Thursday on the Plaza of the Americas to teach proper manipulation of performance arts. Occasionally, members of the club spin ﬁ  re.
UNIVERSITY OFFICIALS 
SAY THEY’RE WORKING 
TO ADDRESS THE 
DISPARITY.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
In 1998, Maxine Margolis felt 
angry.
As a UF anthropology profes-
sor, she sued the university for 
salary discrimination, alleging 
the university ignored years of 
complaints that her male coun-terparts earned more money than she did.
In 2001, the lawsuit was set-
tled for an undisclosed amount, she said.
Fifteen years later, there is still 
a noticeable disparity between fe-
male and male faculty members.
Eight women. Ninety-two 
men.
Of the university’s 100 high-
est-paid salaried faculty members 
who work at least three-fourths of the year — excluding those hired by the athletic department — eight are women and 92 are 
men, according to the most re-
cent public payroll data the uni-versity has provided to the state.
Of these, the highest-ranked 
woman earns $524,450, or about half as much per year as the highest-ranked man earns — $984,759, according to the data.
“It seems to me that very little 
has changed at the university,” Margolis said.
•   •   •
For Dr. Shahla Masood, in-
equality in the workplace has be-come the norm.
A professor in the UF Col-
lege of Medicine in Jacksonville, Masood is the fourth-highest-paid Men dominate UF’s list 
of highest-paid facultySEE CANTINA,  PAGE 4
SEE SALARY,  PAGE 4There will be free shots every time the Gators score
“It’s about identifying the 
necessity of speaking up 
because we have to rupture 
the silence.”
Dr. Shahla Masood
UF professorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Agbedidi’ returns to UF
 “Agbedidi” celebrates tradi-
tional West African dance to-
gether with the postmodern expressions of choreographers of the African diaspora. A 
high-energy performance from 
world-class musicians and an 
incredible ensemble of dancers will have you wanting to get up 
and dance. Performances are at 
7:30 p.m. today and Saturday and at 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
UF faculty and staff apprecia-
tion dayThe Florida Museum of Natural History is hosting its UF fac-ulty and staff appreciation day Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. UF employees with valid fac-ulty or staff Gator 1 Cards may receive one free value admis-sion to the Butterfly Rainforest and Wicked Plants exhibits. Employees may also receive a 10-percent discount in both museum gift shops. These of-fers are only valid Saturday and 
may not be combined with oth-
er offers or discounts.
GatorNights: Freeze Fest
It’s the most wonderful time 
of the year. Celebrate winter 
with GatorNights this Friday 
at Freeze Fest. This will be 
one “cool” GatorNights as you can see the internet sensation 
Us The Duo in concert from 
9 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Reitz 
Union Rion Ballroom. Get crafty this holiday season for your friends, family or yourself by 
personalizing a snow globe or 
photo frame. Come watch the 
8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of “Sully” while enjoying ev-eryone’s favorite winter snack 
from the s’mores bar. Glide 
down the “Reitz mountainside” 
on the snowboard simulator or race a friend inside a “Zorb” on an 80-foot track. Take a picture, and create a holiday card to share with the ones you love. Bring friends to spread holiday cheer at our holiday karaoke sing-along. You’ll even have a chance to grab a copy of Sparks Magazine at the official release party in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Midnight Munchies will be served as breakfast this week in the Reitz Union food 
court from midnight to 1:30 a.m. 
GatorNights is always Friday 
and always free for UF students 
with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be 
current students to participate 
and are allowed to bring a max-
imum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 70
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
SOME RESIDENTS WILL 
PROTEST, AND OTHERS 
WILL RECORD HISTORY.
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
On Election Night, Kristin Birdsey 
forced herself to go to bed early so 
she could still have hope. The next day at work, many of her female co-workers could not stop crying.
To help them grieve, she bought 
them margaritas.
Now, nearly a month after Don-
ald Trump’s election, Birdsey said she is well past grief — but not yet ready to quietly accept a Trump presidency, which she fears will in-fringe upon the rights of women and immigrants.
On Jan. 21, 2017, a day after 
the Republican real-estate mogul is inaugurated, Birdsey will march in the District of Columbia, protesting Trump’s presidency alongside doz-ens of other Gainesville residents.
They plan for two buses to trans-
port the group Jan. 20 to the nation’s capital for the Women’s March on Washington. So far, one bus has 56 passengers assigned to it, and the other has been ordered to meet de-mand, she said.
The oldest rider is 76. The young-
est is 7, traveling with her mother.
“That’s really moving, too, see-
ing that this speaks to women across generations,” Birdsey said.
Birdsey, a 33-year-old small-busi-
ness owner, ﬁ  rst planned to march with her best friend but soon discov-ered how expensive a trip for two would be. As what she ﬁ  rst thought was “a shot in the dark,” Birdsey cre-ated a Google form and posted it on the Facebook page of the Gainesville City of Resistance Group, an anti-
Trump group formed after the elec-
tion.
Her form received about 90 re-
sponses. Since then, interest in the chartered buses has only continued to grow. The Gainesville chapter of the National Women’s Liberation group has been redirecting its inter-ested members to Birdsey, causing 
the interest to blossom further.
Although Birdsey has attended 
some rallies as an individual, includ-
ing those in Gainesville following the election, she never intended to be-come the organizer of a mass migra-tion like this trip.
“It’s sort of like a giant ﬁ  eld trip 
but for adults,” Birdsey said.
For the ﬁ  rst bus, riders will pay 
$115 per ticket but are encouraged to donate more if they can so others who may not be able to afford the 
ticket price can pay a reduced fare. 
Graduate students have reached out about a reduced ticket price, and Birdsey said she wants the trip to be accessible.
Men and women will make the 
trip, but the group is mostly women. One rider, Birdsey said, paid in cash and has yet to tell her husband, a 
Trump supporter, that she plans to 
attend the march.
Regan Garner, a UF Honors 
Program adviser and a member of the steering committee for the Gainesville chapter of NWL, plans to attend the march with her 68-year-old mother and aunt. She fears the status of women’s reproductive 
rights under a Trump presidency, 
along with the president-elect’s ideas about deporting undocumented im-migrants.“The only way people have made 
a difference is through direct action, is through protest, is through ﬁ  ght-ing,” Garner said. “We were not giv-en Roe v. Wade. Women demanded it.”
Independently, other women 
have planned their own trips to the District for the march. Jessica Ter-
kovich, a 19-year-old UF criminology 
and law freshman, had planned to attend the inauguration before Elec-tion Day, back when she assumed Hillary Clinton would be the one onstage.
“At ﬁ  rst it was a big disappoint-
ment when we found out we didn’t win,” Terkovich said. “I got to the 
point where I’m motivated to go out 
and do something and keep working in the next four years to ensure Dem-ocratic representation locally, and in our state and in our country.”
Another bus will be leaving 
Gainesville for the inauguration — but this bus will be ﬁ  lled with 16 students taking a non-partisan histo-
rian’s perspective. The Samuel Proc-
tor Oral History Program and the Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies organized the trip post-election. Donors have helped to fund the trip.
The group will document the in-
auguration and the women’s march. Paul Ortiz, the program’s director, said the students will interview at-tendees and present their reporting Feb. 22 in Pugh Hall.
“The whole world is going to be 
watching what transpires in Wash-ington, D.C. that week,” Ortiz said. “History is going to be made, and the University of Florida needs to be there.”
GNV residents attend inauguration to record history — or protest
IF YOU WANT TO PROTEST
• First bus tickets are $115 or higher donation
• Ticket price for second bus to be determined 
• 56 set riders, more 
interested 
• Leaving 7 p.m. Friday, Jan. 20
• Arriving in Washington, D.C. 
on Saturday morning 
• Returning to Gainesville on Saturday evening4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
female faculty member at UF, ac-
cording to the data.
Fifty-one men earn more.Although several factors con-
tribute to the skew, Masood said 
some female faculty members feel 
afraid to speak up in fear of being ignored, criticized or, in extreme cases, ﬁ  red.
“Frankly, there is a lot of fear,” 
Masood said. “Fear of retaliation and fear of speaking up.”
Masood said she believes many 
people have grown accustomed to 
an atmosphere of inequality at in-
stitutions such as UF. The most important element of change, she said, is having the courage to dis-cuss the situation.
“It’s about identifying the ne-
cessity of speaking up, because we have to rupture the silence,” she said. “I want to rupture that 
silence, and I’ve been thinking 
about that for a long time.”
Just a few hours northwest of 
Gainesville, Florida State Univer-sity boasts more than three times as many top-earning women on faculty, with 26 within the top 100, according to the data. The discrepancy exists despite FSU be-
ing ranked 42 spots below UF in 
academics, according to the U.S. News and World Report.
Large research universities 
that are comparable to UF in en-rollment size and have a medical school, such as the University of Michigan and the University of Texas at Austin, also have higher 
rates of women among their high-
est-paid faculty members, accord-ing to recent public payroll data provided by the universities.
At Michigan, 26 of the uni-
versity’s 100 highest-paid faculty members who work at least three-fourths of the year, excluding those hired by the athletic depart-ment, are female. At UT Austin, 20 of 100 are women — still more than twice as many as UF.
UF spokeswoman Margot Win-
ick said university administration 
is aware of gender disparities and 
is working to address it. Winick added the university strives to re-cruit a more diverse faculty.
“It is part of the broader goal 
that has been outlined by the president and voted on by the (UF) Board of Trustees — and the goal is to address pay so that 
it’s on par with our peer universi-
ties,” she said.
•   •   •
In 1971, then-UF President Ste-
phen C. O’Connell appointed the UF Status of Women Committee, which was established to promote equal treatment of women at the university.
In 1974, the committee was 
cut.
Alyssa Zucker, an associate di-
rector of the UF Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies Research, said UF’s pay discrep-ancy may stem from a negative perception of female leadership.Female leaders are often 
viewed as irritatingly bossy as op-posed to brilliantly dominant, she said. 
“In general, women’s leader-
ship is not promoted the same way that men’s is,” Zucker said.
Currently, various faculty 
members are working to obtain a grant from the National Sci-ence Foundation, which Zucker believes would improve the rep-resentation of women in educa-tional leadership, with a focus on women in science, mathematics and engineering programs.
Zucker said one way UF could 
work to prioritize female leader-ship is to extend parental leave from six weeks to an entire se-mester.
Kate Ratliff, a UF professor of 
psychology, said she agreed the school’s parental-leave policy is unfair, calling it essentially non-
existent.
“A lack of parental leave tends 
to hurt women more than men,” 
wrote Ratliff, an expert in gender and women’s issues, in an email.
Ratliff suggested this dispar-
ity, although very complex, could possibly reﬂ  ect a pay gap, in which women are paid less for the same work, or a power gap, in which women are less likely to hold high-level positions.
Ratliff also cited something 
known as the warmth-competence trade-off, which suggests compe-tent women in the workplace are perceived as less likable, while 
warm women are viewed as less 
capable. In either scenario, Ratliff said, women are less likely to be hired or promoted.
“I’m not arguing this IS the 
cause, just that discrimination is one potential factor,” she wrote.
•   •   •Of the 92 men on the list, just 
two could be reached for com-ment. One of them declined to speak.
The other, Jay Ritter, an emi-
nent scholar chair at UF’s Depart-ment of Finance, said he had not considered the issue but noted that 50 percent of current medical 
students are female.
“It’s something I haven’t 
thought about,” he said.
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Brett Keeler contributed to this 
report.
SALARY,  from pg.1Compared to other universities, UF has less top-earning female faculty
Blakemore
 Mendenhall
Davis
THE TRAPS WERE 
PLACED IN FIVE HOUSING 
COMPLEXES.
By Ralph Duvers
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A South Korean company do-
nated mosquito traps to UF Housing 
and Residence Education.Seoul Viosys donated the Mo-
sclean traps Nov. 21 to help with the mosquito problem in Florida, wrote Sharon Blansett, the assistant to the associate vice president for UF Stu-
dent Affairs, in an email. The traps, 
which were placed in graduate and family housing, use carbon dioxide and ultraviolet light to attract mos-quitoes and trap them.  The traps were placed in stair-
wells — where air circulation is lim-ited — and in areas residents have reported mosquito issues, Blansett said. Corry Village, Diamond Vil-
lage, Maguire Village, Tanglewood 
Village and University Village South were among the housing complexes where they were placed.
“Pest control is a year-round chal-lenge in Florida, making it an ideal 
test location for new products and 
processes,” Blansett said.
UF Housing worked with Phil 
Koehler, a UF entomology professor 
with the Institute of Food and Ag-
ricultural Sciences, to research test products like the mosquito traps that were donated, she said.
His work with the traps led to UF Housing receiving the donations, she said.
Sherry Zhou, 24, wrote in an 
email that her friend received notice 
about the mosquito traps.
The UF tourism graduate student 
said she feels safer with the traps 
around her home at Maguire Village. 
“To be honest, I am a little bit 
worried about Zika,” she said.South Korean company donates mosquito traps to UF housing
“It’s the last time we get to see 
our Gators play this year, other 
than the bowl game, of course,” he said. “I’m cautiously optimis-tic.”
In order for the Gators to win, 
he said, quarterback Austin Ap-pleby needs to play better — es-pecially against Alabama’s stiﬂ  ing defense, which ranks among the nation’s best. 
Dylan Probert, a UF theatre freshman, said the alcohol pro-motion is smart for Cantina’s business. 
“I think it’s a funny idea,” the 
18-year-old said. “They’re not go-ing to give out a lot of free shots, because I don’t know how much we’re going to score.” 
Probert said the Gators’ chanc-
es against the Tide were slim.
“We’re probably going to get 
kind of killed,” he said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org CANTINA,  from pg.1UF is a 24-point underdog
Masood
 Beier
Garcia
 Tuli
 Wasserman
• Doors open at 1:30 p.m. 
• Bag exchange station at three locations 
will allow attendees to exchange bags for clear ones 
• Bags will be inspected before entry 
• Attendees not at the gate by 3:15 p.m. should not expect to see kickoff          What you can bring: 
• Clear bags that are plastic, vinyl or PVC no bigger than 12 inch by 6 inch by 12 inch• Binoculars and cameras, no cases               What you cannot bring: 
• Purses larger than a small clutch bag 
• Coolers
• Briefcases 
• Backpacks 
• Fanny packs  
• Seat cushions 
• Luggage
• Camera bagsWHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW IF YOU’RE ATTENDING 
THE SEC CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: 
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
A look at the top 100 highest-paid faculty members at UF and three comparable universities. University of Florida University of Michigan
Florida State University University of T exas at Austin8%
92%26%
26%20%74%
74% 80%FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
Red-and-white mailboxes read-
ing “North Pole Express” will be 
placed throughout Gainesville for 
the next week to collect letters for 
Santa Claus.
The mailboxes are part of Op-
eration Letters to Santa, an annual 
program run by the city that lets children write to Santa about what 
it means to have good character 
and what they want for Christmas. 
The department usually gets 
more than 200 letters a year, 
said Mary Harker, the Gainesville Parks, Recreation and Cultural Af-fairs program coordinator for edu-cation.
Children can send letters un-
til Dec. 9, she said. They can be mailed, faxed or submitted to one of the red mailboxes at the Porters 
Community Center, Eastside Com-
munity Center and the PRCA Ad-ministrative Office.
Since the program started six 
years ago, Harker said some let-ters have been touching, even heartbreaking. 
“You never know what you’re 
gonna get,” the 49-year-old said. “They want a puppy, or they want their grandmother back.” 
Acting as Santa’s elves, staff 
members read each letter and send one back to each child. 
“We want to keep that old tra-
dition of writing letters to people 
and then receiving letters back,” 
Harker said.
While kids await Santa’s re-
sponses, they can see him Satur-
day from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at The 
Thomas Center for the annual hol-
iday tree-lighting celebration. David Ballard, the events coor-
dinator for PRCA, said more than 1,000 people usually come. 
Horse-drawn wagon rides 
around the Duckpond neighbor-hood will be offered for $7 for adults and $3 for children. 
A 20-foot-tall holiday tree will 
light up The Thomas Center, which will be secularly decorated with wreaths and bows, he said. 
“We celebrate the holiday sea-
son to be inclusive of all faiths,” 
Ballard said. Gainesville collecting letters and planning festivities for Santa
Tree-lightings planned for this weekend
Grace King / Alligator Staff
DONATING FOR ANIMALS
ABOVE: Members of the Freshman Leadership Council make treats for dogs at the Alachua County Humane 
Society. FLC organized the Yappy Holidays event on Thursday afternoon on the Plaza of the Americas.
RIGHT: Brandan Birsic, an 18-year-old UF economics freshman, makes a chew toy for a dog at the Alachua 
County Humane Society. Birsic is a member of the Freshman Leadership Council, which put on Thursday’s Yappy Holidays event on the Plaza of the Americas.
THEY DISCUSSED 
EXPANDING CULTURAL 
AREAS AND START-UP 
BUSINESS CULTURE.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Board of Trustees 
unanimously voted to support a 
development plan that will shape 
the university and Gainesville 
community for 50 years.
On Thursday, the trustees 
met to discuss and vote on sev-
eral items including the Strategic 
Development Plan and a future parking garage bond. 
The board will meet again to-
day at 9:30 a.m. to put several 
items to a final vote. UF Chief Operating Officer 
Charlie Lane and David Manfredi, 
a consultant, gave a presentation 
to the board that outlined the 
foundation of a plan to further develop UF and the Gainesville community. 
“We want to do things at UF 
that others will emulate,” Man-fredi said, quoting UF President Kent Fuchs.  
The goal of the plan, Lane 
said, is to bring the Gainesville community and UF community together in a mutually beneficial partnership. 
Some of the ideas of the plan 
include expanding cultural ar-eas at UF, establishing a start-up business culture and creating more buildings in areas around Newell Drive and West University Avenue. 
The funding for the plan will 
come from university funds, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. 
“They approved the strategic 
plan in concept,” Sikes said. “It’s 
just an endorsement of the whole 
plan.”
Concerns expressed by 
Gainesville residents about fu-ture gentrification and affordable 
housing during strategic-devel-
opment meetings were not dis-cussed. 
The board’s Finance and Fa-
cilities Committee approved the concept of a bond of an undeter-mined amount to fund building a new parking garage on Museum Road that would provide about 1,500 parking spaces. If approved today, the bond will be voted on by the Board of Governors. 
The maximum cost of the proj-
ect is $37.2 million, but the com-mittee plans to settle on a lower cost after more discussion with 
the Board of Governors. Revenue 
for the bond will come from decal fees, parking fines and toll and meter parking. 
Curtis Reynolds, the vice presi-
dent for UF Business Affairs, said the bond was approved in concept and that the board is exploring options to bring the cost down.
“We need to progress forward 
with the bond process,” he said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
Board of Trustees shows support for UF development 
Today, the Board of  
Trustees is voting on:
• Contract between 
UF and graduate assistants affirming raises and fee reliefs 
• Bond for a new parking garage 
• Decreasing required credits and modifying the degree plan for the UF College of 
PharmacyThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Do not mourn the death of a dictator and his legacy
When news of Fidel Castro’s death 
broke out, the reaction of the Cuban community was one of elation. Cu-ban-Americans danced and sang in the streets, celebrating the death of a 
dictator who had divided their families, forced them into exile and, in many cases, imprisoned and executed some of their closest friends and relatives.
Next door in Canada, however, we saw a dif-
ferent reaction; Canadian Prime Minister Justin 
Trudeau mourned Castro’s death, praising him 
as a “remarkable leader” and a “larger-than-life leader who served his people for almost half a century.” With good reason, Trudeau was widely ridiculed. #TrudeauEulogies began to trend instantly on Twitter and Facebook, with 
mocking tweets such as, “Mr. Stalin’s greatest achieve-
ment was his eradication of obesity in the Ukraine through innovative agricultural reforms.”
The reaction from Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the 
U.K.’s Labour Party, was similar. “For all his ﬂ  aws,” Cor-byn said, Castro would be remembered as an “internation-
alist and a champion of social justice.”
Obviously, Trudeau and Corbyn are ignorant of the 
Castro government’s long record of human-rights abuses, 
including but not limited to summary executions of thou-
sands of political opponents, massive purges and show-tri-
als for dissidents, “re-education camps” for gays and les-bians, threats of nuclear obliteration against the U.S., censorship and the forced exile of nearly 20 percent of the Cuban population. Either they 
are not well-versed in Castro’s history, or they 
choose to look past those “ﬂ  aws” in the name of ideals that Corbyn and Trudeau champion — namely anti-imperialism and social welfare 
programs.
To be fair, it is worth noting that Cuba under 
Castro boasted some of the best literacy rates 
and health care indicators in Latin America (although this was also true pre-revolution, ac-
cording to The Washington Post editorial board) and that he liberated Cuba from the brutal American-backed dicta-tor Fulgencio Batista. But we must ask ourselves: at what cost?
Did Mahatma Gandhi not liberate India from British 
domination without executing a single political opponent? Did France not achieve arguably the best health care sys-tem in the world without opening a single “re-education camp” for homosexuals?
Trudeau and Corbyn are what Castro’s hero himself, 
Vladimir Lenin, would have labeled “useful idiots” — pro-pagandists for a cause whose goals they are not fully aware of. It should be a cause for alarm when powerful leaders of 
liberal parties around the world mourn the death of such 
a vile dictator, and it reveals a certain willful ignorance of many liberals for the sake of so-called progressive ideas that dictators such as Castro represent.
But we must not fall into the myth of Castro — the 
cigar-smoking, olive-green-cap-wearing revolutionary who liberated Cuba from American exploitation, only to replace it with an ultra-repressive Orwellian state. Instead, we must call a spade a spade and recognize Castro for 
whom he truly was: a tyrant.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science and telecom-
munication senior. His column appears on Fridays.You’re sitting in the doctor’s ofﬁ  ce, waiting with antici-
pation for Dr. Pepper to come in to treat you. After what 
feels like an eternity, he ﬁ  nally knocks on the door and lets 
himself in. “So, you’ve been cut in half. Vertically. How 
you were even able to do anything apart from bleed out on the ﬂ  oor, let alone get up, schedule a doctor’s appointment and attend this appointment, is nothing short of a miracle. Frankly, everything I know about medicine has been un-
dermined by your survival.” You stare blankly at him, then 
despite your larynx literally being severed in half, manage to shout out “God damn it Doc, speak English! How much time do I have left to live?” Shocked you’re even able to reply, he 
stutters, “A few minutes, I think? Once again, you’ve liter-
ally been split down the middle.” “Oh thank God,” you mut-ter, spitting blood everywhere. “Just enough time to read the only thing worth living for,
Darts & Laurels.”
As we begin to gear up for ﬁ  nals, our collective campus stress 
level is high. Naturally, we all partake in calming exercises one way or another. Some of us binge-watch Netﬂ  ix, some drink in 
excess and others dabble in recreational drug use. To those of 
you in the last camp, rejoice in the knowledge that earlier this week, President Barack Obama said marijuana ought to be treat-ed and regulated similarly to alcohol and cigarettes. We present 
a funny-smelling laurel to Big Barry O for recognizing the 
absurdity of marijuana’s current legal classiﬁ  cation.
On the other side of the political spectrum, openly conserva-
tive “news” agency Breitbart News Network recently declared 
war on beloved cereal company Kellogg’s, which has blessed our lives with awesome cereals like Frosted Flakes, Apple Jacks, 
Froot Loops and Rice Krispies. The decision came after Kellogg’s 
decided to pull advertising from the site, saying Breitbart isn’t “aligned with our values.” We give a dart to Breitbart News Network for being so goddamn insane that their moral val-ues got ditched by a cereal company.
Now, to sum up the political side of this editorial with an 
observation about the recent presidential election: We’re not go-ing into details, but yesterday, Hillary Clinton’s lead over Don-ald Trump reached 2.5 million. This (growing) margin is ofﬁ  -
cially larger than any of the nine previous presidents. We give 
a dart to the Electoral College for royally and undemocrati-
cally screwing the American people and, consequently, the world.
Closer to home, football star Chad Ochocinco came to visit 
campus Thursday to talk to some Sports Media and Society stu-
dents. After class, he was kind enough to take all of the students 
out to lunch at The Swamp Restaurant. As students who are all a bit tight on cash right now, we sincerely thank you, not only for taking time out of your day to talk to us, but also for picking up the check after lunch. Ochocinco, you are the real MVP. 
For that, we give you a laurel.
Surprise sports guests aside, we can’t deny the ﬁ  nals-week 
stress is getting real. As our fellow students  go to the library for the ﬁ  rst time this semester, we hand a big dart to Marston 
Science Library and Library West for being too crowded and loud. Starbucks aside, we just want to ﬁ  nish our study guides without hearing your roommate drama. 
This being the last Darts and Laurels of the semester, we want 
to reach out and say thank you, sincerely, to all our dedicated 
readers here in Gainesville, and all of those who have kept up 
with us online. We present to you, our wonderful readership,  
the ﬁ  nal laurel of 2016, for being a spectacular audience and having great taste in newspapers.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Julian
 Fleischman
opinions@alligator.org
“W e must call a spade a spade 
and recognize Castro for 
whom he truly was: a tyrant.”FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
For this entire calendar year, Reddit, 
“the front page of the internet,” has been waging a secret war on one of its most popular and active subred-dits: The Donald. Created around 
the time of President-elect Donald Trump’s presidential bid announcement, this com-munity of brave souls who were courageous enough to proclaim themselves pro-Trump on a website as public as Reddit started off small, with only about 6,000 subscrib-ers after its ﬁ  rst six months of existence. Then, sometime around February, an inex-plicable spike in subscribers was initiated and has yet to show signs of slowing down. Now with more than 300,000 subscribers, or “centipedes” as they are called on the subreddit, The Donald has become one of the most cohesive, discussion-based and meme-making subreddits in the website’s history.
Despite the subreddit’s incredible growth 
and harmless, yet powerful, meme-making capabilities, it has recently been revealed that some of Reddit’s leaders, including its CEO, Steve Huffman, have (supposedly) been plotting and acting against The Don-ald. Although many on The Don-ald have been claiming Reddit al-tered its upvote algorithm to give posts and news on the subreddit less attention on the site, sub-stantial evidence has come out in the last week showing Huffman and his peers apparently discuss-ing how to “control” the subred-dit during a chat session.
Huffman has admitted to editing posts 
on The Donald, blatantly abusing his pow-er as the head of Reddit. Speciﬁ  cally, he claims to have deleted his own personal ac-count name from the comment section and replaced it with the names of various mod-erators of the subreddit.
Huffman might have released a poor 
apology about the incident, but the dam-age has already been done. Both members of The Donald and numerous other Reddi-tors are questioning the validity of the site and trustworthiness of those running it. For a site that so avidly proclaims free speech and open discussion, having its own CEO screwing around with the discussions of a group he disagrees with is extremely detri-mental to the health of the site.
Since its beginnings, Red-
dit has been a wonderful place where people from all walks of life can discuss topics of their choosing. Thousands of tightly knit communities operate within Reddit 24/7, all comprised of di-verse individuals with a shared interest and love of a particular 
topic. For some, it might be a sports team or musical group; for others, a book series or video game. But the common thread of all of these subreddits is the camaraderie of digitally interacting with people who love your hobby just as much as you, whether they live next door or across an ocean.
The Donald, a subreddit passionately 
dedicated to the president-elect, has been the single-most fascinating community I have ever experienced online. Its strong sense of togetherness and ﬁ  ery passion for memes and discussion is remarkable, and by being on and watching the subreddit during election night, I was the most en-tertained I have ever been while online. I could not help but think during that night that this is what the internet is truly for: freely interacting with others around the globe, all who fervently love to discuss the same subjects as you.
For a long time, Reddit has been the 
platform on which one can experience said interactions. However, much of the site’s reputation has been rooted in the ideals of free speech and open discussion. When the CEO of Reddit admits to having edited com-ments criticizing him on a subreddit that he does not agree with, there is a very se-rious problem. The individual comments themselves do not matter, but this story is once again an issue that centers around a much larger idea: free speech on the inter-net. Reddit cannot claim to be home to free speech when those running it are messing around with the words of users who don’t agree with them. Huffman himself might have called all of this a “joke,” or a way “to give the bullies a hard time,” but such feck-less apologies are utterly useless now. The irreversible damage to users’ trust in Reddit has already been done.
Andrew Hall is a UF management ju-
nior. His column appears on Fridays.
How a virtual civil war between Reddit's leaders and The Donald tainted trustColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
By Olivia Ooten
Alligator Contributing Writer
In an effort to promote sustain-
ability, Santa Claus will wear a 
green suit Saturday. 
During the ﬁ  fth-annual Green 
Gift Fair, which will run from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. at The Repurpose Project, located at 1920 NE 23rd Ave., the Green Sustainable Santa 
will read a story about sustainabil-
ity to children as part of the free event, said Lynn Polke, the creative enabler for The Repurpose Project. 
The event will feature live music, 
food, handmade gifts by local ar-tisans, crafting stations to learn 
how to make their own repurposed 
items and sustainable Santa wear-ing a big, green suit.
The nonproﬁ  t organization is 
hosting the event to promote local handmade and repurposed gifts to encourage a more sustainable holi-
day season, she said. 
“We want to make people aware 
and conscious of how much they’re using,” Polke said. “It’s mind-
boggling how much gets thrown away.”
They are asking for $3 to $5 do-
nations for the event, which will help maintain The Repurpose Proj-ect store and help educate people, 
Polke said.
She hopes people walk away 
knowing they can make a positive impact, she said. 
“Instead of going shopping, we can share time with local commu-
nity members and learn to make 
things ourselves,” she said. 
Emily Taylor, a UF environmen-
tal science senior, said she was ex-
cited to see the sustainable fair take place in Gainesville. 
“The amount of waste people 
reduce by buying local is more than they think,” the 23-year-old said. Sustainable Santa to make an appearance at local fair
By Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s bicycle lanes and number 
of bike racks helped qualify the uni-
versity for a national distinction. 
The League of American Bicy-
clists named UF as a silver-level 
bike-friendly university Nov. 28. 
UF was one of 164 institutions to receive the distinction. 
Jacob Adams, the ofﬁ  ce man-
ager for the UF Ofﬁ  ce of Sustain-ability, submitted UF’s application and spearheaded the project after attending the organization’s confer-ence in March. 
The application covered differ-
ent aspects of cycling on campus, including the mileage of bike lanes, 
locations and number of bike racks 
and programs involving cycling on campus, like the Gator Gears pro-gram.
“(UF), for a university of its size, 
I think, does a really good job of making sure cyclists are considered and included when it makes infra-structure decisions,” Adams said.
In putting together the packet, 
the Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability con-ferred with 12 different campus groups to form the “bicycle work-ing group.” 
Members of the Transportation 
and Parking Services, University Police ofﬁ  cers and the College of Health and Human Performance were among the organizations that gave input for the application. 
Adams said he hopes to take 
UF to the next levels: gold and platinum. The league provides a detailed report for all awarded uni-versities, pointing out areas for im-provement.
At UF, more community out-
reach would help, Adams said.
The distinction comes with a cer-
tiﬁ  cate and signs to display around campus, letting visitors know the university is bike-friendly.
For Bonnie Chiffelle, 22, biking 
at UF has been a more welcoming experience than her hometown of Miami. The UF sustainability studies 
senior said she bikes for practical 
reasons but is also motivated by 
sustainability and feels UF’s bike culture could promote this.
“One of the major reasons is be-
cause I don’t want to increase my carbon footprint,” Chiffelle said. “It’s a way for me to contribute to something good for the environ-ment. If people were encouraged 
more to bike more, not just on 
campus but around town, I think it would help a lot.”
Bike racks and Gator Gears help UF receive bike-friendly distinctionFRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    12-2-16-6-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE down -
town. 5 br, 2 ba, wood floors. 320 NW 1st Street. $2500 per month total, individual leases per bedroom. Call 352-256-5921 or email simpsonm@ufl.edu.     1-4-16-7-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor in LR. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com      12-6-16-5-2
WHAT A FIND FOR SPRING SEMESTER! 2/2, 3rd floor condo in Campus Edge. Vaulted ceilings, pool view, on campus. Amazing lo-cation. $1000/mo. Spring semester only. Call Aimee 352-514-0482    1-4-16-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-16-10-10
End of Year Rental Return AuctionIncludes: Dozers, Loaders, Trucks, Trailers & more. Wed, Dec 7, 9:30AM.3500 N. Hwy 27, Carrollton GA. 678-673-9194.www.joeymartinauctioneers.com GA#2627     12-2-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      12-2-1-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate10   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              12-7-6-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647       12-2-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Test
6 Law degs.9 While-__: repair
shop sign words
14 Art critic’s
phrase, literally
15 Calendar pg.
16 NBA’s Jackson
et al.
18 “10” co-star19 Send out
20 Pamplona’s
municipality
22 Big stain
24 Israeli border
lake
28 “Doubt it”29 Theme park
near Dallas,
literally
30 “Conan” channel33 Dayan of Israel35 Giants manager
before Bochy
37 Like non-oyster
months,traditionally
39 Ration (out)40 Changes one’s
ways, literally
42 “The Deep”
director Peter
44 Bottom line
46 Closing
sequence
48 They’re often
numbered
49 Bench
warmers?
53 Loss of speech
55 Drive-__56 Before, in Brest59 Tumbles out of
control, literally
61 “In the
Bedroom” Oscarnominee
62 Passé
63 “Surprise
Symphony”
composer
64 Big tees
65 Matrix, e.g.
DOWN
1 Some jennies2 Baffle3 Prophetess
4 Longtime
Dodgermanager
5 Still
6 Whale of a guy?
7 Half of MCDX8 Most constant9 Kite aid
10 Cajoled
11 Whistle blower?
12 Key for Fauré?
13 “For shame!”
17 Run at the end
21 “Toy Story”
dinosaur
23 Highland lid25 Ancient
Germanicinvader
26 Even, in Évian27 Valuable team
member
29 Field unit
30 Byes
31 Not sharp
32 More ticked
34 Cunning36 Still breast-
feeding
38 __ orientation41 Ignored the
alarm
43 Civil war site
since 2011:
Abbr.
45 E. African land47 Dulcimer kin49 Crushes an altar
ego?
50 Utter
51 Part of a
skipping refrain52 Like some
heads
54 King anointed
by Samuel
56 Sports fig.
57 U.S. govt.
broadcaster
58 Acker of
“Person ofInterest”
60 Doo-wop
syllable
By Peter Koetters©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/02/1612/02/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, December 2, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedFRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Film Producer-Director-Writer
**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
**GatorWell is Hiring!**
Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 500529     12-2-16-5-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
NOW HIRING SERVERSApply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
Polaris of Gainesville is looking for lot per-
sonnel. Prepping for delivery, lot & building maintenance, general upkeep. valid D.L and background check! Apply IN PERSON at 12556 NW HWY 441, Alachua, FL 32615    12-2-16-4-14
PT cleaner needed M-F &every other Saturday..weekly pay 8.50/hr must have your own transportation 20-30 hrs a week..must pass a drug/background check.. if in-terested please call 352-214-0868     12-5-16-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    12-7-7-14
Part-time, hourly - Garden upgrade & maintenance. Will train. Near UF.
Call 352-505-5254      12-7-5-14
Want to make a positive impact in the lives of girls in this community? Visit GirlsPlace.net/employment to apply. Hiring for multiple positions.      12-7-16-5-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497         12-2-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305        12-2-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Three Florida Players to Watch Three Alabama Players to WatchJoey Ivie remembers the pain well.
He remembers being smacked 
around by Florida State, toyed with 
by Alabama and demolished by Michigan to close the 2015 season.
And yet, even though it’s very 
possible that this season could follow the same script, he said 2016 should already be counted as a success. 
“There’s not a lot of teams playing this 
weekend,” the senior defensive tackle said. “It’s quite an accomplishment to make it to the SEC Championship.”
He’s right. For Jim McElwain and his 
staff to come in and do what they’ve done — sending the Gators to back-to-back conference title games — is 
admirable. It’s impressive. It’s a sign of  McElwain can 
silence critics 
with win vs. 
AlabamaA SHOT AT REDEMPTION
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16The Associated Press
Quarterback Austin Appleby celebrates after Florida's 16-10 win over LSU at Tiger Stadium on Nov. 19. Appleby and No. 15 UF will 
face their biggest challenge this season when they take on No. 1 Alabama in the SEC Championship Game on Saturday.
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
Three Alabama Players to Watch
Austin ApplebyFor Florida to have any chance of pulling off an upset, its quarterback, Austin Appleby, will likely have to keep from turning the ball over. At best, he’ll need to make a couple of clutch throws to keep the Gators in the game with Ala-
bama's high-scoring offense.Jalen Hurts 
A season ago, the Gators were pummelled by eventual Heisman winner Derrick Henry, who ran for 189 yards. He left for the NFL after that season, leaving the Tide without a dominant rusher. That’s where Jalen Hurts comes in. The true freshman quarterback is averaging 70.0 yards per game and can stiﬂ  e the Gators with big runs early. 
Appleby
Callaway
Brantley
Caleb Brantley Caleb Brantley represents the entire Florida defensive line, which will have to contain mobile Alabama quarterback Jalen Hurts. The Crimson Tide are without a star rusher like Derrick Henry, who pounded the Gators a season ago. But if Florida can’t contain the true freshman scrambler, its chances are grim. Jonathan Allen Florida’s offensive line is injured, and that means Jonathan Allen, who leads Alabama’s defensive linemen with seven sacks, should be able to feast. It’ll be a long day for Apple-by if his linemen can’t slow down the senior. 
Antonio Callaway A year ago, he led Florida in re-ceiving with 46 yards against the Crimson Tide and returned a punt for a touchdown. The Gators will need receiver Antonio Callaway to be a playmaker again this Saturday to knock off Alabama. Calvin Ridley Calvin Ridley dominated the Gators a season ago, hauling in half of Alabama’s receiving yards. The wide receiver is hoping for more of the same this season. 
Hurts
Allen
Ridley
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriFLORIDA IMPROVED 
TO 7-1.
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Opening the second half of 
Thursday night’s matchup in Jack-
sonville, the Gators held a ﬁ  rm 20-point lead over North Florida.
Less than a minute in, howev-
er, the lead was 14.
UF coach Mike White called a 
timeout and angrily sent his start-ing ﬁ  ve to the bench in favor of a backcourt led by junior Chris Chi-
ozza and freshman Eric Hester.
And Florida never looked back.
In its ﬁ  rst true road game of the 
season, the No. 24 Gators (7-1) defeated the Ospreys (3-6) 91-60 
in Florida’s best offensive perfor-
mance of the season.
Chiozza scored a season-high 
16 points on 5-of-8 shooting — in-
cluding 3-of-5 from beyond the arc  
— to lead UF, while Justin Leon 
and Canyon Barry scored 13 and 
12 points, respectively.
“Chiozza was the best player 
on the ﬂ  oor all around,” White 
said. “(He) was extremely un-
selﬁ  sh. Got guys shots and made 
shots, of course.”
Defensively, Florida was sound.The Ospreys shot just 37.7 per-
cent from the ﬁ  eld and totaled two assists. The quick hands of the Gators’ backcourt, led by guards Kasey Hill and KeVaughn Allen, forced North Florida into 20 turnovers. Hill, Allen and Chi-ozza combined for all eight of the Gators’ steals. 
However, despite an otherwise solid defensive outing, White was not happy with how his team de-fended UNF’s premier guard Dal-las Moore. The senior netted six threes and torched the Gators’ defense for 31 points on 12-of-21 shooting. Moore’s scoring also sparked the Ospreys’ 8-0 run to 
begin the second half. 
“What a performance he put 
on. He was absolutely incredible,” 
White said of Moore. “We did a poor job on him. … The scouting 
report was to make him a driver, 
and we didn’t.”
However, while Moore seem-
ingly couldn’t miss, neither could 
Florida.
After a slow start to the season, 
the Gators ﬁ  nally found a spark on offense. 
Florida broke the 90-point mark 
for the ﬁ  rst time this season, shot 
a season-high 58.5 percent from 
the ﬁ  eld and knocked down nine 
of its 19 three-point attempts.
The scoring outburst came at 
the right time for UF.
The Gators head to Madison 
Square Garden in New York City to face No. 5 Duke on Tuesday. But White said he wants his team to focus on the present, not the 
future.
“You do what you can to preach 
staying in the moment,” he said. 
“We’ll have to be as tight with that attention and that focus and that energy level as we can possibly be to have a chance next week.” 
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report. 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
The Associated Press 
Kasey Hill (0) attempts to pass during Florida’s win against North Florida on Thursday night. Hill had ﬁ  ve assists and two steals in the win. Florida men’s basketball
demolishes UNF on road
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
By Alligator Staff
Site: Georgia Dome 
(Cap. 71,228)
Kickoff: 4 p.m.
TV/Radio: CBS/Gators 
IMG Sports Network
Lopsided affair.
Isn’t that a fun way to 
say the word “blowout”? 
Listen, we’re just trying 
to bring a small glimpse of 
happiness to an otherwise tedious 
event — no one likes to turn on 
their TV for a hyped-up football 
game only to have one team score touchdown after touchdown while the other lays a goose egg through the third quarter.
You want competitiveness. You want highlight plays un-
der pressure.
You want a close game with 
the clock ticking down and a close-up of the sweat dripping down the ﬁ  eld-goal kicker’s face as he lines up a 55-yarder for the win.
Sadly, that’s likely not what 
you’ll get on Saturday.
Florida plays Alabama in the 
SEC Championship Game for the 
second-straight year this week-
end, and last season the Gators lost by two touchdowns to the Crimson Tide.
This year, it’s looking to be 
worse: Alabama is undefeated, Florida has a wealth of injuries and the spread is 24 points in the Crimson Tide’s favor.
Or we could be totally wrong, 
and Florida could pull off the big-gest upset in recent memory and earn a one-way ticket to the Sugar Bowl.
Debating which bowl game 
we’d rather travel to after the SEC title game are sports writers Ian Cohen and Ethan Bauer.
The Buffalo Wild Wings 
Citrus Bowl wins because…
Theoretically, I’d rather have 
Florida make the Sugar Bowl, so I can travel to New Orleans and explore Bourbon Street. But on the other hand, I’ve heard from sources that Buffalo Wild Wings 
caters the Citrus Bowl for the 
working media, and that is a good enough reason for me.
-Ian Cohen
The Outback Bowl wins because…
I love fried onions, and the 
very pinnacle of onion friery is 
Outback Steakhouse’s Bloomin’ 
Onion. That’s pretty much all there is to picking the Outback Bowl. 
-Ethan Bauer
Now onto the picks!
In ﬁ  rst place with a 57-47-2 
record is sports writer Ian “My 
Menorah Brings All the Boys To The Yard” Cohen, who was ex-cited to ﬁ  nd a miniature meno-rah and a kippah on his desk this 
Wednesday to contrast with the 
Alligator ofﬁ  ce’s Christmas deco-rations. Was teaching your assis-tant sports editor to say “chutz-
pah” in everyday conversation 
not enough to remind everyone of your religion, Ian? Apparently not. 
In second place with a 52-
49-2 record is the Gainesville Sun’s Graham “It Was Pretty All Right” Hall, who used that same 
phrase to describe his viewing 
experience while watching the new Harry Potter-themed movie, “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,” the other day. Hall 
was even disappointed when he 
found out that they’re making four more movies to complete the series. How dare you speak such 
blasphemy, Graham. 
In third place with a 49-52-
2 record is GatorCountry.com’s 
Nick “Health Freak“ De La Torre, 
who we heard is jogging to Atlan-
ta for the SEC title game instead of driving because he’d prefer to work on his cardio. You do you, 
Nick.
In fourth place with a 48-53-
2 record is sports writer Ethan 
“I Learned How to Technology” 
Bauer, who has been excited the entire week about the fact that he 
learned how to design his own website for a feature story he has 
been working on. At least one of 
us learned something from our journalism classes this semester.
In ﬁ  fth place with a 47-54-
2 record is sports writer Patrick “I’m Still 7 Years Old” Pinak, who wrote a column comparing UF football players to cartoon 
characters in the movie “Space 
Jam” earlier this week. And after comparing Jalen Tabor to Tweety Bird, rumor has it that Tabor blocked Patrick on Twitter. That’s 
cold, Teez.
In sixth place with a 46-55-2 
record is 247Sports.com’s Thom-as “Injury Guy” Goldkamp Gold-
kamp, who Jim McElwain always panders to when announcing weekly injury reports. Yes, we know we’ve used this one before, 
but give us a break. We’re on our 
last legs here. 
We have a tie for dead-ass last 
with piss-poor records of 43-58-2.
First is sports writer Jordan 
“Numbers Guy” McPherson, who skipped out on his copy editing 
shift Thursday night to drive up 
to Atlanta early. (The Alligator proceeds to have seven fact errors in its sports section for Friday.)
Next is the Orlando Senti-
nel’s Edgar “F------ Harry Pot-ter” Thompson, who couldn’t believe his ears when he heard 
Graham Hall talking about the 
latest Harry Potter movie before football media this week. “Is this guy 11 years old?” Edgar contin-
ued, much to the dismay of Gra-
ham, who just wanted to have a friendly conversation about the movies. In hindsight, I guess we should’ve been discussing the lat-
est Seinfeld episode, Edgar.  PICKS Column: SEC Championship Game edition 
WEEK 14 PICKS16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2016
GATORS PLAY ALABAMA STATE 
AT 7 P .M.
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
With eight freshmen on the Florida vol-
leyball team, nearly half of UF's roster will 
get its first taste of postseason action tonight 
against Alabama State to open NCAA tourna-ment play.
But coach Mary Wise sees her team’s 
youth as more of a benefit than a disadvan-
tage.
“The beauty of having young players, 
they don’t know any different,” Wise said during Thursday’s practice. 
“For them, it’s just another weekend.”The Gators are looking to make a deep 
postseason run, further than last year when 
they made it to the NCAA Tournament Re-
gional finals before losing in five sets to 
Texas.
While Florida is likely to lean on its vet-
erans who already have valuable postseason experience, it will also be important to utilize 
its depth by calling on those younger players.
Rachel Kramer, a 6-foot-8 freshman mid-
dle blocker, will be one of the Gators taking 
part in her first playoff, but her current play 
exceeds her inexperience. 
In her first collegiate season, Kramer 
notched a hitting percentage of .537, which 
would lead the nation if she qualified. 
However, she didn’t have the minimum number of attacks.
Her middle blocking mentor, junior Rha-
mat Alhassan, is ranked sixth in the nation 
with a hitting percentage of .422.
“I’ve really tried to talk to Rhamat,” 
Kramer said. 
“I’ve just tried to kind of pick her brain…
but honestly, you gotta feel it for yourself.”
Florida will be tested from the opening 
serve, as they face a surging Alabama State team. 
The Hornets are riding a 12-game win 
streak and went a perfect 18-0 in Southwest-
ern Athletic Conference play.
So while the Gators are making sure that 
they focus on themselves, they're also learn-
ing as much as possible about their oppo-
nent.
“We’re focusing a little bit on Alabama 
State, a little bit on what we need to do that 
we’ve been working on this entire week,” 
Snyder said.
The winner of UF's match with Alabama 
State will return to the Lemerand Center on 
Saturday to play the winner of Cincinnati 
and Florida State when the two schools play 
today at 4:30.
The Gators' battle with the Hornets be-
gins tonight at 7.
“Nothing can compare to this,” Kramer 
said. 
“I just honestly can’t describe it.”
@SkylerLebron 
Slebron@alligator.org  Young Florida volleyball team excited to begin NCAAs
Catherine Dickson / Alligator Staff
Rachel Kramer (5) attempts a kill during Florida's 3-0 win over Mississippi State in the Lemerand Athletic Center.
good things to come. 
But beating Alabama 
this weekend would put 
those accomplishments to shame, launching the 
Gators into a distinct 
stratosphere of college football’s elite teams. And perhaps more importantly for Jim McElwain, it keeps Florida from getting stuck in stagnation, which will keep his critics lip-locked. 
The second-year coach 
was asked this week the same question as Ivie: Regardless of what happens the rest of the way, is this season already a success?
His response, while 
similar, added an extra layer of depth to what Ivie had to say. 
“One thing I do know is 
I believe we’re in the SEC Championship again for the second straight year,” he said. “Maybe not the way people want it, but ultimately, the idea is to figure out how to win a ballgame and how to win 
the East.”
Wait for it...
“Now the next step is 
how to win the whole SEC.”
Boom. There it is. McElwain knows what’s 
next. He knows that his reign as head coach — much like that of a government 
official — derives its mandate to rule from the 
satisfaction of the people 
(fans, administrators), 
and those people demand improvement. 
An appearance in the 
conference title game was satisfactory to meet that 
mandate a season ago, but 
if the Gators get slaughtered by the Crimson Tide again on Saturday, McElwain’s legitimacy will start to be called into question. 
A season with no 
improvement at all might be tolerated once, if only 
because Florida’s suffered 
too many injuries to keep count of, and because, given the turmoil and terribleness of the Will Muschamp years, McElwain looks godly by comparison. 
But if the same pattern 
continues next season — a 
mediocre SEC record, an 
SEC East title in a weak division and massacres against Florida State and Alabama to close the season — McElwain will feel the full force of the impassioned Florida fan base calling for his removal. 
He can avoid any of 
that sort of talk with a win over the Crimson Tide this weekend, however unlikely that may be. 
Ethan Bauer is the as-
sistant sports editor. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @
ebaueriCOLUMN,  from pg13McElwain: 'Now the next step is how to win the whole SEC.'
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Joey Ivie (91) points to the crowd during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. "There's not 
a lot of teams playing this weekend, " Ivie said. "It's quite an accomplishment to make it to the SEC Championship. "
