TRANSFER STUDENTS CAN 
APPL Y FOR IA IN SPRING.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Quintino De Sousa transferred to UF last 
Spring as part of the ﬁ  rst Innovation Acad-
emy transfer class.
IA, a program in which students take 
classes on campus during Spring and Sum-mer, began accepting transfer applications in Spring 2015, wrote Jeff Citty, the direc-tor of IA, in an email. Of the 851 students currently enrolled in IA, six transfer stu-dents were admitted in Spring 2015, and 11 
were admitted this semester.
Spring is the only semester during 
which transfer students can apply for the 
program.
Citty said he wanted the program to be 
accessible for transfer students who could bring new ideas to IA.
“Going forward, we look to increase op-portunities to transfer students,” he said.
De Sousa, 25, said he transferred into IA 
because he wanted to be an entrepreneur. He also liked that IA students get to reg-
ister for classes a few weeks before other 
students.
While the UF advertising junior said he 
didn’t know what IA entailed when he ap-
plied, he thought it would look impressive 
on his resume. He transferred from Florida Gulf Coast University because they didn’t have an advertising program.Now he is in his third semester of the 
program. De Sousa said he has mixed feel-ings about it.
“I’m still kind of in a fog about what IA 
is about, ” he said.  
De Sousa said he likes taking classes 
in Spring and Summer because he prefers spending summers in Gainesville and the 
holidays with his family in Naples, Florida.
But he said he didn’t know he couldn’t 
take Fall classes on campus when he ap-We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 87 MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
Free throws ﬁ  nally fall 
against Auburn
Gators shot  83.3 percent 
from the foul line, pg. 13
Computer engineers: assemble
UF researchers work to develop new software, pg. 5
Party like an engineer: Hacking all night and day
Students create programs overnight during SwampHacks, pg. 8A coﬀ  ee and a cappella
Check out the photo story, pg. 9
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
When Gainesville Police Ofﬁ  -
cer Patrick Hopkins saw 30-foot 
ﬂ  ames rising from a home in 
June, he ran toward them.
Outside, a mother screamed 
for help. Black smoke surrounded 
her daughter, Kimberly Foster, in-
side the four-bedroom house. 
“I was scared,” Kimberly, 31, 
said. “I didn’t want to die.”  
On Thursday, Gov. Rick Scott 
awarded Hopkins a medal of her-oism.
Fellow Ofﬁ  cer Brett Kikendall 
and Cpl. Kevin Clinton, who re-
sponded to the house ﬁ  re with 
Hopkins, received the same honor 
that day. 
Hopkins believes they are the 
ﬁ  rst in the department to receive the award. 
“It’ll be something I remember 
forever,” he said. 
On June 26, Kimberly woke up 
to the smell of smoke, which soon 
seeped into the closet where she 
hid from the ﬁ  re. As ﬂ  ames grew outside her bedroom door, the smoke caused her lung to deﬂ  ate.
“That’s all I remember,” she 
said.
Hopkins and Kikendall pa-
trolled together when they heard the call go out: “10-65. Signal 25.”
When they arrived at the 
scene, 49-year-old Loretta Foster told them where her daughter was trapped.
With ﬁ  reﬁ  ghters still travel-
ing to the scene, Hopkins took a breath and climbed through Kim-berly’s bedroom window.
“It was impossible for me to 
breathe or see and I could not 
hear anything at all…besides the 
sound of the ﬁ  re,” he later wrote in a report.
One minute passed. Then an-
other.
Inside the bedroom, Hopkins 
kept low to the ground as he searched for signs of life.
Unable to hold his breath 
much longer, Hopkins called out to Kimberly. 
Moments later, Hopkins felt 
Kimberly’s foot and picked her up.
She was unresponsive inside 
the closet, and with Hopkins’ last breaths escaping him, he carried Kimberly through her window.
“I don’t know how much lon-
ger I could have gone,” he said.
After being treated for a few 
cuts and scrapes, Hopkins called his wife.
“I’ll be home a little bit late, 
but I’ll be home” he said. Through the ﬁ  re: 
GPD oﬃ   cers awarded 
SEE IA, PAGE 4Innovation Academy accepting transfer student applicationsSEE HERO,  PAGE 4By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Hundreds of people gathered Sat-
urday to protect Paynes Prairie Pre-
serve State Park.
The Paynes Prairie Coalition or-
ganized a rally at First Magnitude 
Brewing Company, followed by 
a 1-mile march that started at the brewery and ended at the corner of Main Street and University Avenue.
At the rally, local folk band Whit-
ey Markle and the Swamprooters played “This Land is Your Land.” At-tendees made signs displaying mes-sages such as, “protect our parks,” and, “Scott free zone,” nearby. 
The coalition is worried that bills 
in the Florida Legislature could open the park to logging, hunting and cat-tle grazing, which could potentially upset the scenic landscape. 
Former chief naturalist Jim Ste-
venson and current historian Leslie 
Poole condemned what they said are 
actions taken by the state govern-ment to harm Paynes Prairie.
Stevenson speciﬁ  cally mentioned 
Gov. Rick Scott and the Department of Environmental Protection.
“We ﬁ  rst learned about DEP’s plans to dismantle the park in April 
of 2015,” Stevenson said.
The coalition — which includes 
members from the Alachua Audu-
bon Society, Suwannee-St. Johns Group Sierra Club and Florida Native Plant Society — chanted that parks belong to the people. 
Poole, a fourth generation Floridi-
an, said her grandfather ﬁ  shed at the 
park as a child. She now takes her 
kids to the prairie and hopes to share it with future generations.
“Why any state institution would 
slowly try to erode the beauty and value of state parks — that is beyond me,” Poole said. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgProtecting Paynes Prairie 
Supporters rallied Saturday
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Supporters gather at the intersection of University Avenue and Main Street on Saturday 
afternoon to protest recently proposed legislation that would allow logging, hunting and cattle grazing at Paynes Prairie Preserve State Park. The Paynes Prairie Coalition organized the rally, which marched one mile from First Magnitude Brewing Company to the downtown intersection.“It was impossible for me to 
breathe or see and I could 
not hear anything at all…
besides the sound of the ire.”
Patrick Hopkins
Gainesville Police officerSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
A weekend of improv
Looking for a way to help pre-
vent interpersonal violence 
but not sure how to get in-
volved? Join UF’s Sexual Trauma Interpersonal Violence Education and the UF Center for 
Arts in Medicine for a weekend 
of training in theater improv techniques to creatively impact culture around these important issues. No prior acting experi-
ence necessary; all majors and 
identities encouraged to apply. The event will be held Saturday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday 
from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Register 
at gatorwell.wufoo.com/forms/interact-intensive-training-regis-tration-form, or email Jeffpuf@ufl.edu.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. 
in the Entomology Building, 
situated at 970 Natural Area Dr. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For details about Talking Gators, 
go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. “The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience in which members are empowered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in 
greater self-confidence and per-
sonal growth.”
National Society of Leadership 
and SuccessThe National Society of Leadership and Success is host-ing its New Member Orientation on Feb. 20 to welcome all of its 
members and get a head start 
on this semester’s activities. The National Society of Leadership and Success is the nation’s larg-
est leadership honor society. 
Students are selected by their college for membership based on a student’s academic stand-ing or leadership potential. 
Candidacy is a nationally recog-
nized achievement of honorable distinction. With 509 chapters, the society currently has 550,023 
members nationwide. The soci-
ety is an organization that helps people discover and achieve their goals. The society offers life-changing 
lectures from the nation’s lead-
ing presenters and a community where like-minded, success-ori-ented individuals come together and help one another succeed. 
The society also serves as a pow-
erful force of good in the greater community by encouraging and organizing action to better the 
world.       
Latina Women’s League
There will be a free Bilingual 
Story Time event Saturday at 11 
a.m. at The Library Partnership, 
situated at 1130 NE 16th Ave. For more information, contact info@latinawomensleague.org.
Condom accessory design chal-
lenge for Sex in the Swamp 2016Grab a friend, get creative and 
transform condoms into the next 
must-have accessory. As part of its Sex in the Swamp event Feb. 18, the Alpha Lambda 
chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma is 
hosting a condom accessory de-sign challenge. Each first-place winning team member will receive a Fitbit Flex Wireless 
Activity & Sleep Wristband. 
Teams of one-to-three current UF students must register for the challenge by Friday, and the 
design must be completed by 5 
p.m. on Feb. 16. For more infor-mation and to register a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2016/01/12/condom-accessory-design-chal-
lenge.
Apply Now for 2016-2017 
Financial AidTo apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. UF’s 
“On-Time” deadline to receive 
the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is March 15. 
Apply well before March 15 to 
ensure the federal processor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to the UF Office for Student Financial 
Affairs. Financial aid is awarded 
on a first-come, first-served ba-sis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most – 
and best – aid. 
In order for the Office for Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a financial aid package, you must be an admitted student and 
have met the “On-Time” dead-
line. For more information or as-sistance completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your financial aid adviser. For contact information, visit 
sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NATIONAL
Sunshine and blue skies follow 
blizzard, but dangers remain 
NEW YORK — Brilliant sunshine 
and gently rising temperatures followed the mammoth blizzard 
that paralyzed Washington and 
set a single-day snowfall record in New York City, enabling mil-lions to dig out Sunday and en-
joy the winter. 
The timing could not have been better: Most people stayed home as the heaviest snow fell Friday evening and all day Saturday, 
enabling crews to clear roads 
and rails, then awoke Sunday to see grimy cities blanketed in lovely but unfamiliar terrains.
It was just right for a huge snow-
ball fight in Baltimore, where more than 600 people responded to organizer Aaron Brazell's in-vite on Facebook.
"I knew people would be cooped 
up in their houses and wanting to come outside," said Brazell, who was beaned by multiple 
blasts of perfectly soft but firm 
snow.But treacherous conditions re-mained: Waist-high piles of plowed snow blocked Manhattan 
bus stops, forcing riders to risk 
waiting on streets, inches from traffic. Judy Tenenbaum refused, and walked a dozen blocks to 
reach a stop where at least some 
snow was cleared.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 87
HIGH  66° LOW  45°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
“Basketball cop” Bobby White brought 
all-star backup to a re-match with 
Gainesville youth Saturday.
A video of the Gainesville Police officer 
playing basketball with local kids — sub-jects of a noise complaint — went viral Thursday.
After promising the kids he’d play with 
them again, White returned to the neigh-borhood Saturday — this time with NBA great Shaquille O’Neal.
As of press time, the footage from 
White’s dashboard camera has attracted about 15 million views.
After 43-year-old O’Neal watched the 
video, his representative contacted GPD 
spokesman Officer Ben Tobias to schedule 
a surprise visit with White and the kids.
At about 2 p.m. Saturday, O’Neal 
stopped by GPD Headquarters before a sur-prise pick-up game of basketball on North-
west 21st Avenue.
“The kids were already outside playing 
ball,” Tobias said. “They had no clue that 
Shaq was gonna come.”
A group of about 20 police officers and 
local kids played with O’Neal for about half an hour, Tobias said. O’Neal requested the visit be a secret until afterward, preventing media from interfering with the game.
“I became a cop to help people, and 
these kids will never forget the day Shaq rolled up to their neighborhood and played basketball with them,” Tobias wrote in an 
email to local media. “Without my choice 
to keep it a secret, I’m not sure this day would have transpired like it did.”O’Neal, who retired in 2011, is famous 
for dunks that have shattered and col-
lapsed several hoops during his career. Over the span of 19 years, O’Neal helped 
earn four NBA championships and became 
known as one of the most dominant play-
ers in basketball history.
“Everyone from that neighborhood was 
outside with camera phones,” Tobias said.Luckily for everyone involved, and es-
pecially the kids’ basketball hoop, O’Neal 
left his dunking at home.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Shaquille O’Neal plays basketball with Gainesville youth on Saturday afternoon. O’Neal surprised Gainesville Police Officer 
Bobby White after a video of White responding to a noise complaint went viral on Thursday. 
Viral video shows GPD officer shooting hoops with Shaq
They surprised local youth
Various vendors displayed their handmade pieces of art for sale at the Midnight’s Big Fat Rummage Sale on Saturday.Big Fat Rummage Sale
Caitlin Hare (left) displays her original artwork consisting of stuffed toys, stickers and clothes at the Midnight’s Big Fat Rummage Sale on Saturday.
Photos by Paulina Praphanchith / Alligator 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
plied to IA.
“I really didn’t understand 
the schedule, but when I found 
out about it, I was ecstatic,” De Sousa said.
He also said when he started 
classes, he felt frustrated with 
the IA program because it didn’t 
focus heavily on entrepreneur-ship. 
His parents, who he says 
have about 100 patents for dif-ferent inventions, encouraged him to be an entrepreneur from a young age.
He said he didn’t think some 
of the students wanted to be in the entrepreneurship classes.
“I felt like the majority of the 
students didn’t really take it too serious,” he said. “They’re kind of stuck (in the minor).”
Despite his frustrations, De 
Sousa said he doesn’t regret transferring into the IA program. 
He said the schedule and op-
portunities to network with oth-er IA students make it worth it.
“I know it’s still a new pro-
gram, and probably in 10 years 
it’s going to be the most sought-
out program,” he said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgIA,  from pg 1They now admit 
transfer students for 
the Spring semester
By Mary-Lou Watkinson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Laughter echoed down the 
fourth floor of the Alachua Coun-
ty Headquarters Library on Satur-
day.
Victoria Christopher Murray, a 
best-selling author, told the story 
of her life as she taught and enter-
tained about 50 people over the 
course of an hour.
Murray has published 25 nov-
els since 2000, when she finished her first story, “Temptation.” Murray said she was born a writ-
er, but she faced a reality without 
her passion in college.
She said dreams of writing 
resurfaced after marrying a man who convinced her to start writ-
ing before she grew too old.
“I always tell people, ‘Well, 
everybody has dreams, but you 
have this desire; you have this 
dream and you have this resis-
tance, and life is resistance.’”
Murray said everything changed when her dreams out-grew life’s resistance.
“I started imagining that I was 
going to be 80 and I would’ve never done it, and that scared 
me,” she said.
Artise Grant, a 78-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she was 
happy to see an author she en-
joys.
“Her books always have a mes-
sage,” she said. “Most of them are 
what I would call contemporary Christian. There’s a little bit of 
everyday life in them, but they 
have a plot.”
Nickie Kortus, the marketing 
and public relations manager for the Alachua County Library Dis-trict, said the Opinionated Ladies Book Club helped bring Murray to the library for its Author Series.
“It’s an ongoing goal for us to 
bring in diverse authors to give people the opportunity to expand their reading options,” Kortus said.
Meshon Rawls, a member of 
Opinionated Ladies, said club members regularly read Mur-ray’s books. Rawls said the event strengthened the community.
“We want to promote read-
ing,” she said. “We think there are other folks out there who are avid readers, and it gives you some different insights and per-spectives when you can really talk to authors.”
Chanice Dos Santos, a UF hos-
pitality and tourism junior, said 
she was excited to hear Murray 
speak, despite never having read her novels.
“I really like to read, and I 
thought that this would be a great opportunity for me to learn about a new author,” Dos Santos, 22, said.
She said the Authors Series is 
a good way to bring like-minded people together.
“I would absolutely come 
back,” she said.Author shares passion and life story during library series 
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a Gainesville 
woman Saturday morning after they said she 
gnawed two fingers off her elderly house-mate’s hand.
At about 7:30 a.m., Linda Kay Swift, 52, 
repeatedly punched her 89-year-old house-mate in his head and chest, according to a police report.
She proceeded to chew off the man’s in-
dex finger to the middle knuckle, and his ring finger to the first knuckle, according to the report.
“Yes, I bit his fingers off,” Swift later told 
police.
Swift then ripped a large piece of skin 
from the man’s hand using her teeth, accord-ing to the report. She lives with the man in a group home in the 1200 block of NW Sixth St.
The man suffered lacerations to his head, 
along with a significant amount of blood loss and permanent disfigurement, according to the report.
The attack was unprovoked, according to 
the report.
Saturday’s incident was Swift’s first crimi-
nal offense, according to Alachua County court records.
Police arrested Swift on a charge of ag-
gravated assault on a person 65 years of age or older. Authorities took her to the Alachua County Jail where she remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $500,000 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgWoman bites off 89-year-
old man’s fingers CRIME
THE FIRST DAY HAD 63 
STUDENTS SIGN UP FOR SG 
PARTIES.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
On a chilly afternoon, 63 students went 
to the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom to inter-
view and run with both Student Govern-ment parties.
Erica Baker, the supervisor of elections, 
wrote in an email that 16 students inter-viewed with Access Party and 47 students interviewed with Impact Party. Last Spring, 37 students interviewed on the first day to run with an SG party, according to Alligator archives. 
Full-time students can run for a Senate 
seat based on their college or academic year.
Access Party president Praveen Varanasi 
said he was excited about students who signed up.
“Today, we actually saw a lot of new 
faces,” Varanasi said.Impact Party president Will Smith said 
he’s confident about the number of students who slated with Impact.
“We saw exactly what we wanted,” he 
said.
Pasha Hajian, 21, is running for a seat 
in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences with Access. He said UF’s Innovation Acad-emy is underrepresented.
“We need more people willing to help In-
novation Academy students,” the UF politi-
cal science senior said.
Tyler Mufalli, a 19-year-old industrial 
and systems engineering freshman, inter-
viewed to represent the College of Engineer-
ing with Impact Party.
“I’ve seen what they’re doing around 
campus, and I definitely support it,” he said.
Eligible students can interview with SG 
parties today from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgHigh turnout for SG slating  
The hospital released Kimberly 
after a few days, and Hopkins is 
still being treated for minor lung is-
sues.
After their home of one month 
was destroyed, the Fosters moved in with a nearby family. 
Around the same time, Hopkins 
and Kikendall gathered donations 
from fellow officers to buy the Fos-ters new beds, toys and other ame-
nities. 
The Fosters later sent Hopkins a 
Christmas card.
“It was a miracle that I’m alive 
now, because my momma love me 
to death and I love her too,” Kim-berly said. 
Hopkins said he knows anyone 
in the department would have done the same. 
“Just another day,” he said. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgHopkins still being treated for lung issues  
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville Police Officer Brett Kikendall (left) poses for a photo 
with Loretta Foster and Officer Patrick Hopkins. When Foster’s house was on fire, Hopkins rescued her daughter from inside. Gov. Rick Scott awarded medals of heroism on Thursday to Kikendall and Hopkins for their bravery.She published 25 novels
“I know it’s still a new 
program, and probably in 
10 years it’s going to be the 
most sought-out program.”
Quintino De Sousa
25-year-old UF
 advertising junior HERO,  from pg 1MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
UF RESEARCHERS WORK TO 
DEVELOP NEW SOFTWARE.
By Gabrielle Calise
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF faculty and students are creating a new operating 
system to protect against dangerous software.
The new operating system is named Chameleon 
because it changes and adapts to defend a computer 
when potentially damaging programs come through. 
UF researchers have been working on the system for 
about a year and a half, said Ruimin Sun, one of the project researchers.
UF is also working with Stony Brook University in 
New York and the University of California, Davis, to create the system, she said.
Sun, a UF electrical and computer engineering doc-
toral candidate, said she wants the system to be able to protect itself against harmful software.
“It can be unpredictable, so we want to be unpre-
dictable as well,” Sun said.
While other operating systems will shut down un-
known software programs in which they can’t distin-guish what’s harmless and dangerous, Chameleon al-lows the software to continue running so the operating system can collect information on the program, Sun said.
Chameleon can also detect harmful programs dis-
guised as normal software and trace them back to their sources, she said.
Sun said she’ll work on the project during the next 
two years of her doctoral program, but Chameleon could take 10 to 20 years to complete.  
Andrew Lee, a UF statistics senior, said he’s been 
running tests for Chameleon since his computer secu-rity professor asked for volunteers last year.  
The 21-year-old said cyber secu-
rity is important because computer users face risks such as having their password stolen, losing money and 
having private information leaked.
“It just affects every age demo-
graphic and age group,” Lee said. “You have 12-year-olds who are just learning the computer, and you have 65-year-olds who don’t know 
how to use a computer.”
Every computer with Chameleon 
will be different, he said, because the operating system will adapt to 
protect each computer based on the 
user’s threats.
“We’re kind of entering this era 
where everything is personalized 
and everything is tailored to you,” he said. “You have Siri, which kind 
of knows your schedule, and you have Google Now, which reads your email and tries to give you sugges-tions.”
Chameleon’s ability to transform itself could stop 
the spread of dangerous programs, he said. Most com-puters have similar operating systems, so if someone can attack one computer, he or she can attack many.
“If you make that one computer variable different 
from every other computer, suddenly their job as an attacker becomes a lot more difficult,” Lee said.Computer engineers: assemble LOCAL
‘Feel the Bern’ 
supporters march in GNV
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., supporters walk on West University 
Avenue on Saturday. About 60 students and Gainesville residents carried posters and marched across UF’s campus to show their sup-port for Sanders’ presidential campaign.
Oliveira
Sun
NATIONAL
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
PARK CITY, Utah — The water contamination 
crisis in Flint, Michigan, is something millions of 
people across the globe experience every day.
Actor Matt Damon and Gary White, co-founders 
of the nonprofit Water.org, came to the Sundance 
Film Festival on Saturday to call attention to the 
desperate need for clean water in impoverished re-gions around the world.
“Imagine this outrage we feel about Flint — this 
justified outrage, I should say, because that should never happen in the United States of America, ever,” Damon said.
 “But there are people for whom life is such 
a desperate struggle, that they’re faced every day 
with the choice of giving their children dirty water 
or no water at all,” he said.
Damon and White appeared alongside Todd Al-
len of Stella Artois to discuss the global water crisis and to announce their “Buy a Lady a Drink” cam-paign — so named because water shortages dispro-portionately affect women, who spend hours each day searching for water for their families. The beer maker is introducing a limited-edition collection of decorated glass chalices representing water-poor countries such as Ethiopia, Haiti, India and Hon-duras. The sale of each $13 goblet will provide a woman in one of these countries with five years of clean water.
The partnership began last year and has pro-
vided water for 290,000 people so far, Allen said.
“Obviously, we’re hoping to do even better this 
year,” Damon said. Matt Damon addresses water crisis   By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a UF plumber 
Friday morning after they said he 
fired three bullets into the ceiling of a parking garage.
At about 2 a.m. Friday, Jacob 
Bryan Heflin, 22, argued with 12 other men on the second floor of the Downtown Parking Garage, according to a police report.
Heflin then grabbed a pistol 
from his truck and fired three shots into the ceiling, according to the report.
A piece of shrapnel ricocheted 
from the ceiling and struck a man 
in the chest, causing non-life-
threatening injuries, according to the report. 
Heflin’s friend, Philip Cody 
Vanorden, took the gun from Hef-
lin and tucked it in his waistband. 
He later placed the gun in his truck, according to the report.
Heflin told police he was in-
volved in the fight but did not re-
member shooting the gun, accord-
ing to the report.Heflin works as a plumber in 
the Department of Housing and Residence Education, according to UF’s staff directory.
Police arrested Heflin on 
charges of aggravated assault, ag-gravated battery and firing a gun in public. They arrested Vanorden on charges of tampering with evi-dence and accessory after the fact.
Authorities took the men to 
the Alachua County Jail where they were released Saturday after Heflin paid a $125,000 bond and Vanorden paid a $25,000 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgAuthorities arrest UF worker
One man was injured
“Imagine this outrage we feel about Flint — this 
justified outrage, I should say, because that 
should never happen in the United States of 
America, ever.”
Matt Damon
actorBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Cars honked and students 
cheered during a march to sup-
port presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., on Satur-day.
The march went through UF’s 
campus and along University Av-enue to draw attention to Sand-ers’ campaign. About 60 students and Gainesville residents carried posters reading, “Feel the Bern,” and, “A vote 4 Bernie is a vote 4 equality.”
Before the march, volunteers 
registered supporters to vote in the primaries, said Kara Sharp, who helped organize the march. While marching, supporters went to the U.S. Post Office on North-west First Avenue to mail their forms.
Sharp, a 22-year-old UF eco-
nomics senior, said she got the 
idea for the march after seeing 
other marches for Sanders sched-uled across the nation on Face-book. She said there weren’t any marches in Gainesville, so she and her roommate decided to or-ganize one themselves.
Fewer people showed up than 
she expected, but she was happy 
with the turnout, she said.
“Obviously, they’re not here 
because it’s 30 degrees,” she said.
She said although the weath-
er might have discouraged some 
people from attending, she didn’t want to reschedule the march. She said she wanted to show Flo-ridians could handle the cold.
Florida’s primaries will be held 
March 15. Only voters registered with a political party can vote.“Even if they don’t support 
Bernie Sanders, anyone can reg-ister here,” Sharp said.
Melissa Powers, a UF psychol-
ogy junior, said she went to the march alone, and it was her first time attending a Bernie Sanders event.
“It’s always good to take an 
opportunity to support a cause you’re passionate about,” the 21-year-old said.
Powers said she marched for 
Sanders because of his support of Planned Parenthood and the Black Lives Matter movement. She also hopes Sanders decreases the wealth gap between the rich and poor, if elected.
“I just think it’s kind of ridicu-
lous that we live in a country with 
such a big disparity between the 
upper class and the lower class,” she said. “Anyone who believes in that sort of thing should sup-port him.”
Sara Nishku, who helped orga-
nize the event, said she thought the march united Gainesville residents of all ages and back-
grounds.
“It’s what Bernie Sanders 
stands for, in a way, that he brings 
different people together from all over the nation,” the 20-year-old UF food science junior said.
Every few minutes, drivers 
would honk their horns. Sharp said there was more support than 
she expected.
“We got a lot, a lot of honks — 
never-ending honks.” she said. “I 
felt like I was flying high.”
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The unoriginality of 
American ﬁ  lm
It was announced Friday that “Labyrinth,” the Jim Henson-
directed and David Bowie-starring ’80s fantasy cult classic, would be receiving a remake/sequel/reboot/whatever in the near future. Ignoring the questionable taste in announcing the regurgitation of a ﬁ  lm so closely tied to its lead actor only 
12 days after his passing, the plans to resurrect “Labyrinth” are an unfortunate reminder that ingenuity remains an ever-dissipat-ing quality in American ﬁ  lm.
Although remakes and adaptations have long been woven 
into the fabric of American cinema, the last 10 years have seen sequels, remakes and reboots come to deﬁ  ne our ﬁ  lmic output. With the one-two punch and runaway success of Christopher Nolan’s reboot “Batman Begins” and Marvel Studios’ adaptation of “Iron Man,” ﬁ  lm studios have rushed to push pre-existing 
stories and properties into production.
Despite many of these ﬁ  lms having landed in theaters with 
resounding thuds, being panned by critics and ignored by mov-
iegoers, producers haven’t stopped, well, producing them. Did anyone see, much less know about, the “Point Break” remake that just came out? Seriously, we’re asking, because many of us in the ofﬁ  ce had no idea it even existed. And don’t even get us started on the abomination that was “Terminator Genisys.”
Although an exception to the critical and commercial phe-
nomenon mentioned above, it’s worth examining “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” now the third-highest-grossing ﬁ  lm ever made, for the sake of example. “The Force Awakens,” although a perfectly serviceable ﬁ  lm in its own right, settles for being a remix — that is, not quite a reboot, not quite its own totally independent entity — rather than introducing story beats and concepts of its own. It mixes and matches the character tropes and plot points of the original “Star Wars” trilogy, mostly those of “A New Hope,” rather than introducing novel concepts or 
unexplored themes to its universe; to call it a full-ﬂ  edged sequel 
would be self-deceiving at best and disingenuous at worst.
It is well established that the original “Star Wars” ﬁ  lm is 
no paragon of originality, either. However, while the ﬁ  lm took inspiration from Japanese cinema, sci-ﬁ   serials of old and the comparative mythology studies of Joseph Campbell, it did so while innovating ﬁ  lm techniques and exuding a sense of scale and wonder audiences had never seen before. For better or for worse, “Star Wars” changed the course of moviemaking and 
audience expectations forever. Of course, not every ﬁ  lm has to 
be “Star Wars” or an impenetrable avant-garde ﬁ  lm. However, the options available to the average theatergoer should not be restricted to the latest superhero adaptation, sequels to and/or reboots of already-ﬁ  lmed superhero fare, Michael Bay ﬁ  lms or poor attempts to construct a Marvel-esque franchise when the source material itself has already run dry (here’s looking at you, “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them”).
Good, and even great, distinctive cinema is out there; you 
just have to look for it. Living in or traveling to Park City, Utah, the location of the Sundance Film Festival, certainly helps, but you shouldn’t have to be a Mormon, a ﬁ  lmmaker or wealthy in order to watch atypical ﬁ  lms (shoutout to the Hippodrome State Theatre right here in Gainesville). There was a time when big-budget Hollywood productions could inspire wonder and still make bank hand over ﬁ  st. When cinema serves only to peddle product and inspire nostalgia, rather than creativity, it is tan-tamount to cultural suicide. If last summer’s “Mad Max: Fury 
Road” and “Inside Out” taught us anything, it’s that awe, magic 
and excitement for the new or different are still possible in big studio ﬁ  lms: It is up to us as consumers to not settle for less. But then again, we are the ones who allowed six sequels to “The Fast and The Furious” — maybe we do deserve “Fast 8.”
Mass migration is not a left vs. right issue
With the sexual assault and terrorism as-sociated with migrant ﬂ  ows, European values are in a clash with no solution in sight. How does one weigh hundreds of thousands of illiberal, disaffected 
young men against starvation in Syria, Taliban ﬁ  ring squads, Eritrean indeﬁ  nite conscription that amounts to slavery and a Mediterranean of ﬂ  oat-ing corpses?
Open-border advocates are unfazed by the 
molestation of more than 500 women on New Year’s Eve in Cologne, mostly by asylum-seekers. Sure, there were unprecedented New Year’s attacks on women in Hel-sinki, Stuttgart and Hamburg. Sure, unaccompanied Afghan 
refugees molested girls as young as 11 years old at a Stock-
holm rock festival two summers in a row. Sure, a Paris at-tacker entered Europe on a counterfeit Syrian passport. Sure, a man who had stayed in a German refugee shelter attacked a Paris police station while screaming “Allahu Akbar.” No matter. Musa Okwonga cited the United Nations’ ﬁ  gure — which says 35 percent of women worldwide have experi-enced sexual violence — to argue the Cologne assaults were “a particularly severe eruption of a situation which, in global 
terms, has always been volcanic.” This is ludicrous.
German feminists Stefanie Lohaus and Anne Wizorek 
argued “Germany’s rape culture is deeply rooted in our col-
lective psyche” and was “not imported.” They compare the assaults to Oktoberfest rapes, which police records proved to be false. Large-scale, coordinated, multi-city assaults are unprecedented, and almost all attackers were Moroccan mi-grants, not sexist Germans. Yes, the nativist right cares about rape only when men of color rape white women. But it is 
audacious to say German women have it as bad as women 
in Afghanistan, India and Pakistan. Almost 90 percent of Af-ghan women face physical, sexual or psychological violence, or are forced into marriage.
From 2009 to 2011, a Norwegian oil industry town report-
ed 20 rapes, only three of which were committed by native Norwegians. In response, Norway offers to migrants classes in gender norms. An asylum-seeker from Eritrea said, “Men have weaknesses and when they see someone smiling it is difﬁ  cult to control,” and that back home, “if someone wants a lady he can just take her and he will not be punished.”
The fact is, most migrants are men. There are 
now 123 16- and 17-year-old boys in Sweden for every 100 girls. Numerous studies show a link between such gender skew and terrorism, prop-erty crime and violent gangs. Is this still, as the government claims, a feminist foreign policy?
The situation is messy and murky. Neither 
open-borders idealism nor xenophobic nativism is up to the task. Both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights en-
shrine the principle of asylum. The EU Directive on Recep-
tion Conditions bestows the right to state provision, includ-ing housing.
First, Germany must be honest. Jochen Bittner suggests 
thorough identity checks to separate free-riding criminals from legitimate asylum-seekers; semi-custody for new ar-rivals without passports; and swift, visible deportation of about 8,000 identiﬁ  ed moochers. That’s the stick; we also need carrots. Judith Sunderland of Human Rights Watch out-
lines a recipe for integration: Cut out the xenophobic talk 
of “swarms” of “terrorists,” nix the discriminatory headscarf bans, quit detaining asylum-seekers, implement mixed hous-ing and integrate children into local school systems.
Today’s fascists-lite might appeal to Western values, but 
they violate them with bigotry, provincialism and vitriol. The consequences: Minorities on the margins of society can turn against it. In 1995, Khaled Kelkal, a son of Algerian im-migrants, shook France with a wave of assassinations and 
bombings. He was the ﬁ  rst homegrown jihadist. His com-
plaint? “I didn’t study just to end up loading trucks.” Culture mustn’t serve as a codeword for more concrete issues like poverty, geographic isolation and xenophobia. Refugees are a reality. If we want them to love the West, we must love them back.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
We Floridians don’t re-
alize how lucky we are. Not only do we 
live in a large and 
continuously grow-
ing state in our fair union, but we are also one of the swingi-
est of swing states. Pretty much 
every election is contested, and with legislative redistricting be-ing fought out in the courts, elections are only going to prove more interesting go-
ing forward.
It’s sad that many students aren’t cog-
nizant of just how important state and 
local politics are. It's true 2016 is a presi-
dential year. But 2016 is also a year in 
which every single Florida state senator and every single state representative is up for re-election. Complete Republican con-trol of Tallahassee lies in the balance.
Additionally, we don’t realize how 
lucky we are to have such great leaders in Tallahassee. 
I’m thinking in particular of Sen-
ate president-elect, Sen. Joe Negron. As chronicled in the Palm Beach Post, “Ne-gron outlined priorities that include a $1 billion increase over two years for state universities, restoring the Bright Futures 
scholarships’ top level so that it provides 
100 percent college or university fund-ing for students, and heightened state ef-forts to ease environmental woes caused 
by runoff from Lake Okeechobee.” I bet 
Democrats and Republicans alike at UF would be equally excited about these policies.
What jumps out at me is Negron’s plan 
for our state’s higher education. He wants to take us to the “next level” and be com-petitive with other top public schools. 
He wants Florida universities “to be-
come national elite destination universi-ties like the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Virginia, the University of Michigan, the University of Texas at Austin.”
Negron continues, “Just as students 
in Florida apply to these universities and many times attend them, imagine a time when students from around the country will apply to Florida universi-ties to come to Florida to get a great education at a national 
destination.” 
In a few years, UF could be 
competing with Michigan and 
Virginia for top spots on edu-
cational rankings. Thank good-
ness this will play out in the classrooms, and not on a foot-
ball field.    
On an economic level, this plan is fu-
ture-oriented. Not only will more money flow into our local economy, but more tech, medical and entrepreneurial jobs that result from university research insti-
tutions will become a reality.
This is also fantastic on a political lev-
el. I’ve talked to many students who say 
Republicans don’t care about education and don’t care about the environment and 
don’t care about students. 
But with Negron’s Senate presiden-
cy, those qualms could potentially be 
changed.
What’s more, the Senate has a populist 
winner in Negron. He “enjoys Chris Rock, ‘Seinfeld,’ ‘Animal House’ references, talking about his favorite team, the At-lanta Braves, and prefers Chick-fil-A over 
the more-expensive” eateries.    
As for ideology, Negron believes “in 
the supremacy of the individual.” That’s 
enough to make any libertarian and con-
servative jump for joy.
What gets me excited about the incom-
ing legislature is how forward-thinking 
its leaders are. Yes, with each new ses-sion, grandiose ideas are often battered 
around. That’s always true, but I think 
there’s more to it in this case. 
Who among us would argue against 
making UF a top university? Who among 
us wants to care more for the environ-
ment? I think all of those questions can be answered unanimously and can be agreed upon across party lines.  
With all of the promise of a new legis-
lative session, we Floridians don’t realize how lucky we are.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.GOP leaders have a plan for successColumn
More vegetables, less red meat and more low-fat dairy products: 
Seems like good, clear-
cut dietary advice, 
right? These aren’t the dietary guidelines the U.S. government 
released recently. Rather, these 
are the guidelines released by the Swedish National Food Agency, which address nutrition in a more substan-tive fashion.
In contrast, the U.S. tells its citizens to 
“follow a healthier eating pattern,” and “shift to healthier food and beverage choic-es,” without going into detail about what 
that actually means. The most speciﬁ  c it 
gets is in telling Americans to consume less added sugar, saturated fat and sodium. As the ofﬁ  cial dietary advice offered by the federal government, these guidelines are 
hotly contested among the food lobby. No 
industry wants its food to be maligned by the government, as it can lead to decreased sales.
With such ill-deﬁ  ned dietary guidelines, 
it’s no wonder Americans do not eat health-ily. Rather than answering the question of what is or is not healthy, the guidelines give recommendations that are vague at best and 
hard to understand at worst. Americans do 
not need their hand held when being told what to eat, but even the smallest degree of speciﬁ  city would go a long way toward edu-
cating citizens as to what is or is not good 
for them. When the advisory committee for the guidelines tried to get speciﬁ  c, many of its ideas were disregarded by administra-tion ofﬁ  cials, according to NPR. Attempts 
to introduce sustainability or suggest a 
lower degree of red meat consumption did not make it to the ﬁ  nal guidelines, perhaps because they seemed too strongly worded.
These recommendations would be hard 
for the average American to implement, as they essentially force grocery shoppers to spend more time than necessary thinking about what they eat and purchase. While 
this is a good idea, when eating healthily 
becomes such an abstract concept that most Americans abandon the idea of eating bet-ter altogether, there is a problem. When guidelines take on a direct form — like mentioning speciﬁ  c foods to avoid and others to consume 
more of — they become more 
useful for everybody.
The people who wrote these 
guidelines seem to have forgotten 
their audience. From an adminis-
tration ofﬁ  cial’s perspective, say-ing, “Make healthier choices” is 
a win-win. The ofﬁ  cial wrote purportedly useful and health-conscious advice, and it 
didn’t hurt the proﬁ  ts of the already en-
trenched food titans. The people who are supposed to beneﬁ  t from this, however, are not the food industry: it’s working-class 
Americans planning out their grocery lists 
for the week.
In order to increase the health of all 
Americans, we don’t just need better guide-lines — we need action. According to the 
President’s Council on Fitness, Sports and 
Nutrition, Americans have increased their consumption of fats and empty calories. Compounding the matter, there are oth-
er factors that have worsened America’s 
health prospects. 
One of the most pronounced is the con-
siderable number of Americans who live in food deserts with no access to a super-
market that sells vegetables. It is also no se-
cret that a lack of physical activity remains a major problem. Even if they wanted to, many Americans lack the resources to eat 
healthy food.
While the administration ofﬁ  cials who 
wrote the guidelines wanted to avoid point-
ing to speciﬁ  c foods, that is exactly what needs to happen: The more straightforward 
the suggestions, the better. By beating 
around the bush, they have downplayed the impact food has on our health. Lobby-ing does not have to be a negative force. 
Lobbying for sustainability or economic 
and social equality can help better the liv-ing standards for countless Americans. But when the ﬁ  nancial interests of the food lob-by and the health needs of Americans do 
not overlap, business interests ultimately 
win out.  
Nicole Dan is a UF political science soph-
omore. Her column appears on Mondays.Food lobby pervades American dietColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
STUDENTS CREATE PROGRAMS 
OVERNIGHT DURING 
SWAMPHACKS.
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
About 400 students stayed up all night 
as they coded from noon Saturday to noon 
Sunday for SwampHacks.
During the second annual competition, 
students had 24 hours to create a software program from scratch in the basement of Marston Science Library. UF’s Association 
for Computing Machinery, UF’s Women in 
Computer Science Engineering club and UF’s Software Development Club hosted the event.
Students from UF and other state uni-
versities coded, and the event attracted about 100 more students than last year. By about 2 a.m. Sunday morning, some stu-dents had fallen asleep at their computers 
and on the floor.
Of the programs created, one could 
recognize faces and play the person’s fa-
vorite song. Another program combined Facebook events based on location so they 
would appear on one website together.
“Some people build pieces of hard-
ware,” said Bernard Marger, a co-founder 
of SwampHacks. “They might hack togeth-
er a robot.”
The three clubs decided to start one big hack-a-thon last year, the UF computer en-gineering senior said. Students of any ma-
jor can attend the event as long as they apply and are a student in the academic year SwampHacks is held.
“At first it was, ‘let’s do it just for the 
school,’” the 21-year-old said. “Now it’s a state-wide hack-a-thon.”
Takashi Wickes said he decided to stay 
in computer science because of a hack-a-
thon he attended last year.
He hopes the competition will encour-
age students from across Florida to code, 
the 19-year-old said.
“If we can convince one of those kids 
that’s unsure about computer science that there’s a great community, it would be worth it,” the UF computer science sopho-more said.
Joshua Kegley, a UF computer sci-
ence and engineering senior, said he and his team won the competition last year. Their program, “Schedule Chomper,” cre-
ated sample course schedules for students 
based on the classes they wanted to take and their preferences for morning, after-noon or night.
The 28-year-old said his favorite part of 
SwampHacks is the number of people who make so many amazing things on the spot.
“In school you learn a lot of theoreti-
cal stuff,” he said. “In hack-a-thons, you’re 
working with the actual software and you 
have to learn it quickly. It emulates what it’s like to be in a real work environment.”Party like an engineer: Hacking all night and day
Sara Marino/Alligator
From left: Bradley Treuherz, a 21-year-old UF computer engineering junior, Anthony 
Colas, a 21-year-old UF computer engineering senior, Sergio Puleri, a 20-year-old UF computer science junior, and Max Fresonke, a 21-year-old UF computer engineering junior, compete at SwampHacks on Saturday. The team won second place for their program, which recognizes people’s faces and plays their favorite song.
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the name of activism, Eli Mend-
er wrote letters to prisoners.
Friday was the first annual Trans 
Prisoner Day of Action — a national 
event that promotes solidarity with 
transgender prisoners.
Mender, a 24-year-old UF sociol-
ogy graduate student, attended an 
event at the Civic Media Center to show support.
“I thought this could add towards 
my trans activism,” he said. 
Letter writing started at 6 p.m., 
followed by a charitable dance party 
four hours later. Money earned from 
the event went toward organizations such as Gainesville Books for Prison-ers, CMC volunteer Kayla Coleman said.
Panagioti Tsolkas said he helped 
organize the event because transgen-der prisoners are sometimes placed with people who identify as a differ-
ent gender. Tsolkas said he served a 
couple weeks in jail after protesting Florida Power and Light.
“Prisons are these weird kind of 
no-man land…because prisoners tend to be dismissed or ignored,” he said. 
Iso Jones, a 22-year-old UF zool-
ogy freshman, wrote to an Ohio pris-
oner. For three years, arthritis and 
fibromyalgia prevented Jones from walking, and Jones said they feel a connection to prisoners after experi-encing isolation. 
“I wish there was more I could 
do, but letting them know someone out there cares validates the cause,” Jones said.Locals promote trans prisoner issues
FLORIDA
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NAPLES, Fla. — Some for-
mer NFL stars are lending their 
muscles to a major Habitat For 
Humanity project in Naples.
The men are helping to build 
a 55-unit housing complex in 
north Naples, The Naples Daily 
News reported Sunday.
Winston Justice, a nine-year 
NFL veteran, was one of the 
NFL stars who helped out at the construction site Saturday. Jus-
tice and his one-time NFL team-
mates Chris Maragos, Adewale Ogunleye and Chester Pitts took part in the Habitat for Human-
ity of Collier County Super Build 
project.
Justice, 31, previously helped 
rebuild homes in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake that devastated 
that country and now serves on 
the board of Habitat for Human-ity of Collier County.
“We’re building these houses 
so that people can create their legacy,” Justice said.  
Habitat for Humanity of Col-
lier County vice president Nick Kouloheras, vice president of 
Collier County Habitat for Hu-
manity, said Naples is known as one of the wealthiest areas in the country, and finding afford-able housing in the area is not 
easy.
“I think that is something 
that gets overlooked,” Justice 
said.  
Kouloheras said that while 
projects like Legacy Lakes are a good start to easing the afford-able housing crisis in the com-
munity, it isn’t enough to fix 
the issue. Of the 110 homes his agency plans to build this year, he expects between 1,400 to 
1,500 qualified applicants seek-
ing help.
“We are barely scratching the 
surface for where the need is,” he said.Former NFL stars 
help build housing complex 
“W e are barely scratching the 
surface for where the need 
is.”
Nick Kouloheras
Habitat for Humanity of Collier 
County Vice President
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
Iso Jones, left, a 22-year-old UF zoology freshman, and Emily Sparr, 
a 32-year-old software developer liaison and Gainesville resident, participate in Trans Prisoner Day of Action at the Civic Media Cen-ter on Friday. Jones wrote a letter to a trans woman prisoner in Ohio offering someone to talk to.MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
RIGHT:
Erika Boone, a 21-year-old UF 
microbiology and cell science sophomore, sings “Respect” by Aretha Franklin as part of a medley performed by T one Def at the Gator Wesley Foundation.
BELOW:
John Nyren (right), a 22-year-old UF computer science senior, performs Sam Smith’s “Lay Me Down” with T one Def at the Gator Wesley Foundation on Friday night.
Josh Salzman, a 19-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology freshman, sings a mash-up of “Wonderwall” and “Boulevard of Broken Dreams” with T one Def at the Gator Wesley Foundation on Friday night.Students gather on Friday night at the Gator Wesley Foundation during the center’s first Coffee House event of the semester featuring UF’s a cappella group T one Def. Their performance was followed by an open-mic session.
Coﬀ  ee and a Cappella
Photos by Scott ParkerMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-16-15-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-1298 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, 
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
1-25-16-5-14Homework Coach for gifted 7th grader with dysgraphia. $10/hr. 4-8 hrs/wk. Flexible. Needs help with organization, study skills, time management, and homework. Send qualifications to KarenGill@aol.com    1-25-5-14
In need of a reliable worker to clean of-fices/homes/apts M,T,TH,F(after 5p) Sat &Sun(time varies) must have reliable transportation and be willing to drive to Morriston,Williston,Jonesville area...weekly pay 8.25/hr (gas will be distributed weekly)...must pass a background/drug check If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868   1-28-5-14
Backyard Water is seeking vibrant and en-ergetic retail personnel for its Gainesville store. We will train you in pool chemistry. 30+ hours per week. Apply in person – 7100 W University Ave (behind Home Depot).    1-28-16-5-14
Taking a risk to do what you love can change your life. A Gainesville start-up company is looking for a co-founder. This is a commit-ment. There are great benefits if the compa-ny succeeds. No one can predict what those might be. Send contact info and resume to info@overlandats.com.    1-29-16-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDFurry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found 18 PersonalsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Florida's swimming and diving 
teams had mixed results in their Senior Day meet on Saturday. Read the story on pg. 14.FLORIDA IS NOW 0-5 AGAINST 
THE TIGERS ALL-TIME.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
With 40 seconds left in Sunday’s game against 
Missouri, Florida’s Cassie Peoples took a jumper 
with her team down by 13. 
Missouri’s Sophie Cunningham and Florida’s 
Simone Westbrook grabbed the rebound and 
wouldn’t let go until well after the whistle had 
blown, earning them both technical fouls.
Down 13 with under a minute to play, West-brook’s effort summed up the fight that has car-ried the Gators all season.
However, on Sunday, that fight wasn't enough 
as the No. 22 Gators (16-4, 4-3 Southeastern Con-ference) fell to the No. 23 Tigers (16-4, 3-4 SEC), 79-64 in Columbia, Missouri.
“Your margin for error against a great team 
on their home floor is really, really tiny," Florida coach Amanda Butler said in a release. "And ours 
was too great tonight to overcome.”
This season, Florida has earned a reputation 
as a fourth quarter team. In 19 games, UF has 
only been outscored in the final quarter three times and still managed to win all three of those games. 
That streak ended on Sunday. Down 10 heading into the final frame, the 
deficit only increased. The Gators got the score as close as six but ultimately came out five points worse than they came in, as Missouri bested them 17-12.
Florida’s Ronni Williams recorded 14 points 
and nine rebounds, which was a team-high in 
both categories. However, the individual with the 
greatest impact on the game was Missouri’s Mor-gan Stock.
Before the game, Florida introduced a new 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Former Florida receiver arrested
Jabar Gaffney, a former standout receiver at Florida from 1999-2001, was 
arrested last Friday, according to the Associated Press. Gaffney was arrested on charges of marijuana possession and possession of drug paraphernalia.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Simone Westbrook dribbles the ball during Florida's 53-45 win over LSU on Jan. 17 in the O'Connell Center.
UF women's basketball falls to Missouri on  road
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Nothing in sports is guaran-
teed.
Florida’s men’s tennis team 
learned that lesson the hard way 
on Sunday afternoon.
After leading 3-0 halfway 
through their match against Texas Tech University, the No. 21 Gators crumbled under the pressure. Ul-timately, they lost 4-3 following a valiant comeback by the No. 15 Red Raiders in the Texas Region-al final of the 2016 ITA Kick-Off Weekend in Austin.
The loss eliminated Florida 
from a spot in the ITA Team In-door Championship, squandering its opportunity to get back for the first time since 2014.Sunday’s match against Texas 
Tech began with an intense battle between two of the top-ranked 
doubles tandems in the country. 
UF’s No. 3-ranked pair of seniors 
Diego Hidalgo and Gordon Wat-son defeated TTU’s No. 2-ranked duo of Felipe Soares and Hugo 
Dojas, winning the match 6-3.
Juniors Elliott Orkin and Maxx 
Lipman then defeated TTU’s Alex 
Sendegeya and Bjorn Thomson 6-4, sealing the doubles point and 
giving the Gators an early 1-0 lead over the Red Raiders.
Sophomore Chase Perez-
Blanco and redshirt-sophomore Joshua Wardell’s match was then 
cut short after Orkin and Lipman 
guaranteed the Gators had won the doubles portion of the event.
The two teams then hit the 
court for singles play. UF fresh-
man Alfredo Perez dominated, 
making quick work of TTU’s Sen-degeya in a 6-3, 6-0 victory. Perez-Gators squander opportunity against Texas TechMEN'S BASKETBALL
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
Free points.
Florida has desperately needed 
them in some of its close, winna-
ble losses this season.
The Gators have had their 
chances at the free-throw line, but 
more often than not, they have 
failed to convert their free throws 
at even a below-average percent-age. 
Saturday night was the excep-
tion.
In Florida’s (13-6, 5-2 South-
eastern Conference) 95-63 drub-bing of the Auburn Tigers (9-9, 3-4 SEC) in the O’Connell Center, 
the Gators had one of their best 
all-around shooting performances of the year. Florida’s 56.9 percent field-goal shooting (33-of-58) was a season high, and its 47.4 percent from three (9-of-19) was the sec-
ond-best performance of the year.
A number that really stood 
out was 83.3 percent: the team’s 20-of-24 effort from the charity 
stripe, by far a season best.
“I told our guys I was shocked,” 
coach Mike White said after the 
win. “It’s much needed. If you’re 
going to win games in the SEC, you’ve got to convert from the foul line.”
Dorian Finney-Smith and Kas-
ey Hill each shot 3-of-3, John Eg-bunu and KeVaughn Allen each shot 4-of-6 and Chris Chiozza, Devin Robinson and Kevarrius 
Hayes all went 2-of-2.
In three of Florida’s six losses 
this season, the Gators lost by less 
than 10 points. In those three loss-Free throws 
finally fall 
against 
Auburn
Florida led match 3-0
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15“I told our guys I was shocked. 
It’s much needed. If you’re 
going to win games in the 
SEC, you’ve got to convert 
from the foul line.”
Mike White
UF coachBy Sean Doty 
Sports Writer 
Seniors from both of Florida’s 
men’s and women’s swimming 
and diving teams found suc-cess on Senior Day inside the O’Connell Center on Saturday. 
Senior Natalie Hinds, who 
had a combined 33 victories in individual and relay races prior to Saturday’s meet, accumulated 
four more total victories as part of 
the No. 11 UF women’s 192-108 
victory over the No. 10 Auburn Tigers on Saturday. 
“Beforehand we knew it was 
going to be really tough and we knew we had to be on full form,” Hinds said. “I think it went really 
well under the circumstances and 
we’re only going to get better.” 
One of the more intense races of 
the entire meet was the 400-meter freestyle relay race for the wom-en’s swimming team. With two of Florida’s relay teams racing neck and neck after the first three legs, it came down to one last 100-me-
ter race between Hinds and fellow 
senior Jessica Thielman. 
“The last race was actually 
pretty special because I was in the last leg against Natalie, and everybody here should know that she’s my best friend,” Thielman said. “It was really close and re-ally fun.”
The best friends raced tightly 
with each other throughout the final leg. 
In the end, it was Hinds who 
touched the wall first to win with a final time of 3:54.03.
On the men’s side, seniors 
Corey Main and Arthur Frayler combined to rack up three of the 
team’s seven victories on Satur-
day. 
Frayler, who was victorious in 
the 1500-meter freestyle and post-ed a U.S. Olympic Trial-qualifying time, felt sentimental during the 
senior introductions in his final 
home meet on Saturday. 
“It was special,” Frayler said. 
“It kind of hit me earlier this week that I was going to be a senior at this meet. I always looked at the past three years with friends and basically family walking with me and being done and how it was just crazy that it was just me.”
Despite Frayler’s big victory 
and Main’s two victories in both the 100-meter backstroke and 400-meter freestyle relay, the No. 3 ranked Men’s team fell just short to the No. 7-ranked Tigers 154.5-145.5.
“We swam really well in the 
second half. We just lost too many close races,” UF coach Gregg Troy said about the men’s performance in the relays and second half. “You can’t lose that many close races in this type of competition.”
The Gators will travel to Knox-
ville, Tennessee, Saturday to take on Tennessee. The Volunteers’ No. 18 men’s team and No. 9 women’s team are both coming off of conference losses against Georgia this past Saturday. 
@TheRealSeanDoty
sdoty@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
TRACK AND FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
It may only be January, but the Gators 
struggled to get anything going on the first day of the Rod McCravy Memorial, their first meet of the season.
 The only bright spot for the No. 1 men’s 
team on Friday was sophomore KeAndre Bates, who jumped his way into being one of the nation’s top jumpers again this year. He placed second only to Marquise Goodwin, the 
2015 Pan American Games silver medalist, 
with a jump of 7.73 meters in the long jump. 
For the No. 6-ranked women, sophomore 
Darrielle McQueen took third in the long jump with a 5.75-meter leap before passing on her last three attempts. 
In the weight throw event, sophomore Lloydricia Cameron (16.88m)  and redshirt freshman Jontavia Dykes (16.11) finished in the 8th and 9th place spots, respectively, on the opening day.
“There’s two things we have to get done: 
better focus, more intensity,” coach Mike Hol-loway said in a release. “There has to be a 
little more seriousness to the craft.”
The Gators entered the second day of the 
Invitational determined to represent their No. 
1 and No. 6 rankings. 
For the women, seniors Robin Reynolds, 
Kyra Jefferson and Claudia Francis along with sophomore Taylor Sharpe  ran the top time in the NCAA this year with a 3:30.51 in the 4x400 relay, finishing just under seven sec-
onds in front of second-place Miami. Their re-
lay was also good enough for Florida’s third-best all-time.In the men’s 800-meter race, junior Andres 
Arroyo took first with a time of 1:47.43, the second-best time in Division I this season. His teammate, senior Ryan Schnulle, placed close behind in fourth.
“I gave them a race plan. Andres execut-
ed it to perfection,” said Holloway. “Ryan (Schnulle) has been a little sick. But he is right where he usually is.”
One of the highlights of Saturday was the men’s 4x400 relay. Seniors Najee Glass and Arman Hall, along with freshmen Ryan Clark and Kunle Fasasi, captured first place with a time of 3:05.57, narrowly missing the meet record set by the Gators last year (3:04.22).
Though UF performed better on the second 
day, it still left room for improvement overall.
“We just kind of lost our focus in areas this 
weekend. And that’s on me,” Holloway said. “I’m the head coach. It’s my job. I’m going to check myself before I check anyone else on that.”
The Gators’ next chance to show improve-
ment will be on Jan. 29-30, when they travel to Fayetteville, Arkansas, to compete at the Razorback Invitational.
@Lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org
Gators leave room for improvement at season’s first meet
Women’s swimming team wins, men lose on senior day
FAR LEFT:
T aylor Katz races in the 200-meter 
butterfly during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23.
LEFT:
Jan Switkowski races in the 200-meter butterfly during Florida’s meet against Auburn.
BELOW:
Florida celebrates in the pool after its meet against Auburn.
Photos by Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff
“There’s two things we have to get done: 
better focus, more intensity. There has 
to be a little more seriousness to the 
craft.”
Mike Holloway
UF coachBlanco followed in Perez’s foot-
steps, winning his match against TTU’s Jolan Cailleau 6-3, 6-4
The Gators at that point led 
3-0 over the Red Raiders, needing only one more singles victory to clinch a win against Texas Tech. Hidalgo, Orkin, Lipman and fresh-man McClain Kessler were all still in the middle of their matches, all with an opportunity to send the Gators home as victors.
None of them could seal the 
deal.
Orkin was overmatched in his 
showdown against TTU’s Dojas, losing in straight sets 6-2, 6-4. Lipman was the next Gator to fall, also losing in straight sets to TTU’s Thomson 7-6, 6-4.
That left only Hidalgo and Kessler. 
Kessler faced TTU sophomore 
Connor Curry. The freshman, who had won his first set against Curry 7-5, lacked consistency in his final two sets, losing both 6-3.
Curry’s victory tied the score 
at 3-3, meaning it would come down to Hidalgo vs. Soares. Play-ing on Court One, Soares com-pleted the Texas Tech comeback and defeated Hidalgo 6-2, 3-6, 7-5, avenging his loss to Hidalgo in their doubles match earlier in the day.
The Gators will have about a 
week to recover from this devas-tating loss. The team’s next two matches will be in Los Angeles, where they will take on No. 8 USC on Jan. 30 and No. 12 UCLA on Jan. 31.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
es, Florida shot a combined 33-of-59 from 
the free throw line.
The Gators lost to then-No.1 Michigan 
State on the road by just six points, 58-52. Florida missed eight free throws in that game. In a two-point loss to Florida State, 
the Gators missed 10 free throws, and in 
a three-point loss to Texas A&M, Florida missed eight free throws.
Winning games can come down to mak-
ing free throws, and even though Saturday’s 
contest wasn’t close enough to depend on 
free throw performance, the Gators finally cashed in.
“I’ve been practicing every day, trying 
to find my rhythm, because I have been struggling for a while now,” Hayes said of his free throw shooting. The freshman went 2-of-2 from the stripe on Saturday af-ter starting SEC play 0-of-8.
“We always work on it,” Hayes said. 
“We actually have a drill we do each day, we have to make a certain percentage as a team. 
And tonight we showed that it’s paying 
off.”
Hayes played an impressive 16 minutes 
off the bench against Auburn as starting center Egbunu struggled with foul trou-
ble. Hayes scored six points, grabbed six 
rebounds and tallied two blocks and one steal. His improvement at the free throw line makes him that much more valuable coming off the bench.
Finney-Smith scored 24 points in Flor-
ida’s win over Auburn, and the redshirt senior knows that with two tough games against Vanderbilt and West Virginia loom-
ing this week, Florida will need to continue 
to shoot well from all areas of the floor to give the Gators a chance.
“We got two tough games coming up, 
two great teams,” Finney-Smith said. “On 
the road (at Vanderbilt), that’s gonna be 
tough. We’re gonna have to play our best basketball to get this win.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org
HOOPS,  from pg13In losses by fewer than 10 points, UF has shot 33-of-59 from charity stripe
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Florida's John Egbunu shoots a free throw during UF's 95-63 win over Auburn on 
Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center.
MEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 13Two Gators lost in 
straight sets on Sunday
starting lineup that featured redshirt-
senior guard Cassie Peoples in favor of freshman Eleanna Christinaki. It was supposed to bolster the perim-eter defense.
Yet, time and time again, Stock 
was open on the perimeter. She 
would make the Gators pay by go-
ing 4-of-5 from beyond the arc. She finished the game with a team-best 20 points. “We have to play great defense. 
We didn’t do that in the third quar-ter and we didn’t get offensive re-
bounds,” Butler said.
With UF's defense struggling to 
contain the Tigers, its offense didn’t 
play well enough to keep the Gators in the game.
In the first half especially, the 
Gators had opportunities in transi-tion that ended in a travel or a poorly selected shot. 
Florida also got into foul trouble, 
with four Gators recording four fouls and one recording five.
Missouri cashed in on those fouls 
by converting on 19-of-25 from the charity stripe.
In contrast, Florida knocked 
down 14-of-22. 
“We got beat by a good team and 
a great SEC team in front of a fantas-tic SEC crowd,” Butler said.
Following the last several games, 
Butler has emphasized the overall quality and depth of the SEC, as she did when talking about Missouri. Now, her team is about to experience the full force of that depth. 
Missouri was the first of a bru-
tal five-game stretch for Florida that includes games against four ranked opponents. Next up is Arkansas on Thursday night in Fayetteville, which should be the easiest of the stretch. However, Arkansas recently defeated Texas A&M and Tennessee — both of which are ranked above Florida.
After that, the Gators will face No. 
9 Kentucky, No. 13 Texas A&M and No. 2 South Carolina in succession. 
The Tigers managed to move to 
5-0 all-time against Florida in the first of those tough five games.
But with four more looming, But-
ler knows that she needs to get her team over the loss quickly.
“It is an SEC game,” she said.
“It is tough but we have to get 
ready for the next one.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgWHOOPS,  from pg13Missouri made 19-of-25 free throws
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida's Diego Hidalgo returns the ball with a forehand in UF's 
6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's Ronni Williams goes in for a layup in Florida's 80-72 win over Alabama Jan. 21 in the O'Connell Center.16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 2016
This Week in UF Sports
Men’s Basketball @ Vanderbilt, Jan. 26 at 9 p.m. on ESPNU
FL YING HIGH
Florida’s Kasey Hill dunks 
during UF’s 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Cen-ter. The Gators will take their three-game winning streak on the road when they face Vanderbilt at 9 p.m. on Tuesday.
Aaron Albright  / Alligator StaffWomen’s T ennis vs. USF, Jan. 27 at 4 p.m.
Women’s Basketball @ Arkansas, Jan. 28 at 8 p.m. on SEC Network +
Gymnastics vs. Alabama, Jan. 29 at 6:45 p.m. on SEC Network
Swimming and Diving @ T ennessee, Jan. 30 at 10 a.m.
Men’s Basketball vs. West Virginia, Jan. 30 at 12 p.m. on ESPN
Men’s T ennis @ USC, Jan. 30 at 1 p.m.Track & Field @ Razorback Invitational, Jan. 29 & 30 on SEC Network+ 