 By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
The branch of a tall hackberry 
tree near the Reitz Union snapped 
and nearly injured a man Tues-day. Workers will cut the tree down today.
At about 11:30 a.m. Tuesday, 
the branch — which a worker said weighed about 4,000 pounds — brushed the man and knocked him to the ground, said 20-year-old UF economics junior Amanda 
Dempsey.
The man then stood up and 
continued walking, she said.
“That person should probably go play the lottery tonight,” said 
Eddie Lake, a shop foreman of 
equipment for UF’s Physical Plant 
Division.
After the accident, students 
notiﬁ  ed an employee at the Re-itz Union Information Desk, who then called the physical plant.
Anthony Black, who works at 
the desk, held a pair of gray ear-buds in his hand, left behind by the man and turned in by a stu-dent.
As the roughly 20-foot branch 
covered a large stretch of side-walk, one worker used a chain-saw to cut the moss-covered 
wood into pieces.
The hydraulic claw of a grap-
ple truck then picked up the 
chunks of branch.
The tree’s old age and Tues-
day’s winds likely caused the in-cident, said Phillip Seay, a main-tenance supervisor.
A worker later found a 1-foot-
deep cavity inside the tree’s trunk, prompting the decision to cut it down. It will either be used for mulch or taken to the biomass plant, Seay said.
By 11 a.m. today, Seay said, 
the tree should be gone.
“We’ll take it down to prevent 
it from falling in the future,” he 
said. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 99 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
Florida basketball defeats Ole Miss
Five UF players scored at least 10 points, pg. 14
College of Education lobbying for 
intensive reading program
The request is for 1.5 billion in state funds, pg. 3
UF engineers host 66th annual Engineers’ Week
There will be 20 events on campus next week, pg. 5Check us out online
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter 
@thealligator and Instagram @thealligator_
Twenty-foot branch hits man near Reitz
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF physics professor died in a hospital 
Monday morning from cardiac arrest, police 
said.
At about 8 a.m. Monday, Steven Detweiler, 
68, was found inside a bathroom near South-west Recreation Center, University Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Wayne Clark said.
A maintenance worker with UF RecSports 
found Detweiler in the bathroom, wearing a GPS watch and workout clothes, Clark said. 
Police arrived shortly after.  
After looking at the data on Detweiler’s 
watch, UPD detectives said he likely parked 
his car at the commuter lot on Gale Lemerand Drive before running about two and a half miles to Maguire Field, Clark said. Ofﬁ  cers performed CPR on Detweiler and then used a deﬁ  brillator, but Detweiler was unresponsive.
Police provided emergency care until 
Gainesville Fire Rescue arrived and drove him about three miles to the North Florida Regional Medical Center, Clark said. He was pronounced dead at 8:40 a.m., Clark said.
On his faculty page, Detweiler is listed as 
a professor in UF’s Institute for Fundamental Theory and UF’s Physics Department. He re-ceived his associate bachelor’s degree from Princeton University and his doctoral degree from the University of Chicago.
As a researcher, he is credited with helping 
author about 100 academic studies, according to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory/NASA Astrophysics Data System.
Detweiler competed in about 60 races and 
logged more than 500 miles as a runner, ac-
cording to athlinks.com.
In 2015, at the age of 67, he ﬁ  nished the 
Boston Marathon in about three hours and 43 minutes, according to the Boston Athletic As-sociation. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgUF professor and runner dies THE RAPPER WILL BE PAID 
$15,000.
By Gabrielle Calise
Alligator Contributing Writer
Lil B is coming to speak at UF on Feb. 18.
Lil B, the rapper known as “The Based 
God,” will come as part of the Reitz Union 
Grand Reopening Celebration Week. The 
event starts at 8:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Reitz Union Board Enter-tainment is paying him $15,000 to speak.
Lil B will give an hour-long speech and 
do a 30-minute Q & A session, said Austin Brown, one of the directors of the Bands Committee for RUB entertainment. Only UF students can attend.
On Monday, students with a Gator 1 
Card can pick up a wristband at the regis-tration desk on the second ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union. Distribution will start at 11 a.m. and 
end at 2 p.m. or when all 805 wristbands are claimed.
Students without a wristband can take 
unclaimed seats the day of the event.
RUB Entertainment has been planning to 
bring Lil B to UF since the beginning of the school 
year, Brown said.
“Lil B has done nu-
merous talks and speak-
ing engagements at differ-
ent universities and has received a lot of positive 
feedback,” Brown said.
Brown said he hopes the rapper will 
speak about his thoughts on the presidential election and discuss his career as an inde-pendent musician.
Joseph Anid, a UF political science ju-
nior, said he was ecstatic when he heard Lil B was coming.
“I think people will leave the lecture 
thinking they haven’t seen anything quite like it,” the 21-year-old said.  Lil B to speak for Reitz opening
B, Lil
CAMPUS
The branch from a hackberry tree outside McCarty Hall snapped on Tuesday morning. The roughly 20-foot-long, 4,000-pound limb 
nearly injured a man as it fell, but it only brushed him and knocked him to the ground, said UF economics junior Amanda Dempsey.
Isabel Bonnet / AlligatorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
From Charleston to Chapel Hill: 
Countering Islamophobia & 
Racial InjusticeOne year ago, on Feb. 10, three young Muslim-American college 
students were killed execution-
style in their apartment by their neighbor in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. A couple of months ago, nine people were killed while praying in their historic African-American church by a white supremacist shooter in Charleston, South Carolina. 
These incidents, two out of 
many others, highlight the resur-gence of Islamophobia and rac-ism in our country.  Join Islam on Campus today at 7 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom for a discussion on Islamophobia, ra-cial injustice, #BlackLivesMatter, hate crimes and the election 
year with Margari Aziza Hill, co-
founder and programming direc-tor of the Muslim Anti-Racism Collaborative.  Learn more about these intersectional issues af-fecting many people, including many UF students, and how to counter and combat them. Free food will be provided.
Campus Feminist Meeting
The Gainesville chapter of National Women’s Liberation will hold a general meeting to-day at 6:30 p.m. in Little Hall, Room 119. Join them for a dis-cussion of feminist history, and help them to plan their Women’s 
History Month event, a March 
15 screening of the film “She’s Beautiful When She’s Angry.” Help them build a strong femi-nist movement in Gainesville.
'Directing Shakespeare: A 
Scholar Onstage'In commemoration of the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare's death, professor Sidney Homan will present a lec-ture on “Directing Shakespeare: A Scholar on Stage” today at 
3:30 p.m. in the Judaica Suite. 
The suite is situated in Smathers Library in the Special Collections Grand Reading Room on the sec-ond floor. Homan is a UF English professor and a visiting professor at Jilin University in China. An actor and director in commercial and university theaters, he is also the author of some 11 books on Shakespeare and modern playwrights.
There’s no debate about consent
Join UF’s Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education for Consent Week for opportuni-ties to learn and talk about what consent is, what it isn’t and how to navigate uncertainties. On Thursday, you can find Cupid’s Consent Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTION
In the article titled “'There is no meaning to life': Speaker discusses atheism, meaning of life,” published Tuesday, the student organization men-
tioned, Humanists on Campus, 
are a secular organization. The Alligator reported differently.  
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 99
HIGH  54° LOW  28°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, Zach Schlein  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
STATE
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Last year, the world saw the 
highest number of shark attacks 
ever recorded.
According to the International 
Shark Attack File at the Florida Museum of Natural History, there were 98 shark attacks in 2015, which was a new record, said George Burgess, the director of 
the Florida Program for Shark Re-
search. The previous record, in 2000, was 88 attacks.
The shark attack ﬁ  le, which 
has investigated shark attacks 
since 1958, found that the U.S. 
had 59 attacks, a world record. Of those, 30 were in Florida.
The numbers aren’t unusual 
due to Florida’s warm water and 
large tourist population, he said.
“We’re putting more people 
in the water than anywhere else, 
not only the U.S., but the world,” 
Burgess said. “Sharks plus hu-
man equals attack.”
He said the Florida Program 
for Shark Research aims to re-
duce the number of attacks and 
educate beach visitors on how to 
protect themselves. 
He also said shark attacks are 
to be expected.
“The reality is, we are not go-
ing to prevent shark attacks,” he 
said. “Our playground is their liv-ing room or dining room.”Although the number of at-
tacks has increased, the number of fatalities has gone down, he said. 
Only one person in the U.S. 
died from a shark attack in 2015.
It is much more common for 
humans to kill sharks, he said.
“We humans kill more than 
100 million sharks and rays every year by ﬁ  shing,” Burgess said. “The real story is, ‘Man bites shark,’ not, ‘Shark bites man.’”
Jonathan Chiotti, a UF me-
chanical engineering sophomore, said he is not afraid of sharks when he surfs.
The 19-year-old said he goes 
surﬁ  ng about once a month with other members of UF’s Surf Club, an organization that encourages students to travel to beaches and 
surf together.
“I’m not scared, but I know 
they’re there,” Chiotti said. “The 
odds that I’m going to get at-tacked are not that high.”
He said people shouldn’t 
be afraid or aggressive toward sharks because of the rise in at-tacks.
“I’ve never heard someone say 
they don’t want to surf because of sharks,” he said. “They’re not try-ing to eat us; they get scared and mistake us for food.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org2015 was a record 
year for shark attacks
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
In the last UF Senate meeting be-
fore elections, Anthony Black (Ac-
cess, District D) resigned from his seat in the chambers.
During public debate, Black said 
his departure was a result of party politics getting in the way of Student Government making a change for the Student Body.  
“We spend so much time bicker-
ing back and forth, and last night’s debate was evidence of that,” Black said.“Please remember that your words carry enormous weight.” 
After Black announced his resig-nation, the Senate passed two resolu-tions, a line item transfer, a replace-ment senator seat and committee 
seats by unanimous consent.
Matthew Hoeck, SG’s external af-
fairs director, said the Gator Career 
Closet, a professional attire lending closet, has been used by two stu-dents. The Closet is not open, but it is serving students, he said.
“The response has been, really, 
one that reminds us of the Gator 
Good we can do together,” Hoeck 
said.  
Passed by unanimous consent:
 Resolution supporting the Ga-
torloop team in the SpaceX Hy-perloop Pod Competition
 Resolution thanking UF’s Levin College of Law
 Line item transfer for volunteers for international student affairs
 Kelly O’Neil for replacement sophomore seat
 Ian Green for Budget and Ap-propriations Committee
 Wilson Trawick for Judiciary Committee
 Heather Ryan for executive 
nomination for Council of Advi-
sors
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgAccess senator resigns from UF Senate
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Board of Trustees approved a beef 
research organization and the sale of the Hilton UF Conference Center hotel at a meeting Tuesday.
The board unanimously approved the 
formation of the Cattle Enhancement Board to receive up to $2 million to go toward re-search in the cattle industry. 
The board also unanimously approved 
the sale of the Hilton located on Southwest 34th Street. The Xenia Hospitality Group currently owns it and will sell it to the Ar-den Group.
The land the hotel is built on is owned by 
the state and leased to UF, which subleases the property to Xena. The sale will not close the hotel, said Charlie Lane, UF’s senior vice president and chief operating ofﬁ  cer. 
The change in management at the hotel will 
hopefully bring about needed renovations.
“UF would like to have a quality hotel 
and conference center in Gainesville that serves the university’s needs, many of which revolve around our ability to recruit ﬁ  rst-class faculty and staff and to host ﬁ  rst-rate events,” he said.  
He said Hilton is requiring the new man-
agement, Arden, to renovate the hotel. Im-provements for the complex could possibly include renovations on the more than 200 beds available, the restaurant and the con-ference center. 
The sale of the center to Arden will go through Thursday, Lane said. He said Ar-den might see the purchase of the hotel as a good investment.
“This was one particular property that 
(Xenia) would consider probably not a primary market for them, and it probably wasn’t consistent with some of the other holdings that they had,” he said.
The Cattle Enhancement Board will be 
a nonproﬁ  t organization afﬁ  liated with UF, said Janine Sikes, the university’s spokes-woman. 
Funding for the organization will be pro-
vided by the Florida Legislature, the cattle industry and possibly private donors, she said. 
The board needed to approve the organi-
zation before any money could be received.“The funding needed a place to go,” 
Sikes said.
Jack Payne, UF’s senior vice president 
for agriculture and natural resources, sup-ported forming the organization. 
He said money from outside groups 
would beneﬁ  t research more than the cur-rent method of funding, which requires money to go through the Florida Depart-ment of Agriculture and Consumer Services.
“The money has to be spent all in the 
calendar year, which prohibits the neces-
sary longer-term research projects that the 
cattlemen need for the industry,” Payne said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org
 Board of Trustees approves beef research board, Hilton sale
A BEACH BALL A DAY
Saloni Patel, a 19-year-old UF business administration freshman, signs her name on a 
giant beach ball on Turlington Plaza on Tuesday after donating a dollar to Beta Chi Theta’s philanthropy benefiting the American Heart Association.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
THE REQUEST IS FOR $1.5 
BILLION IN STATE FUNDS.
By Savanna Kearney
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Education is seek-
ing funding to help elementary stu-
dents learn to read.
The college is requesting $1.5 billion from the state to pilot an in-tensive reading program, called the Winning Reading Boost. The College of Education’s Lastinger Center for 
Learning helped start the program at 
one school in St. Petersburg, Florida, last Fall.
“The Lastinger Center was con-
tacted by some prominent communi-ty leaders in St. Petersburg, and they asked us to see if we can help or as-sist in some of the lowest-performing schools in the state of Florida,” said Shaunté Duggins, an early literacy 
and teaching development consul-
tant for the Lastinger Center.
The initiative began with a few 
instructors teaching a group of 20 children from Campbell Park El-ementary at a church center in St. Petersburg, she said.
“The program at the church was 
great, but it just wasn’t ideal to op-timize the students’ learning,” Dug-
gins said.
Because of that, they want to 
bring the program to the classroom, 
she said. The pilot uses songs and games to reinforce repetition and make learning fun. The curriculum utilizes both technology and books.
Dianne Fix, one of four instruc-
tors of the pilot program, said both the students and their parents are 
excited about students learning 
through the pilot.
“We had a dad that said his stu-
dent said that ‘You’re not going to read to me anymore; I get to read to you,’” she said. 
 College of Education lobbying for elementary reading program4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
By Amanda DioGuardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Dean of Students Office will train 
students to resolve conflicts.
The trainings, which will occur Fri-
day and Saturday, will teach students to 
resolve club and roommate disputes. In the past, training has only been for UF law students.
Although there has not been a rise in 
student conflicts, Chris Loschiavo, the associate dean of students and director of student conduct and conflict resolu-tion at UF, said the office believes more 
students will have the skills to resolve 
their own conflicts, as well as those of others, if they receive mediation train-ing.
“I think being trained in conflict reso-
lution can be helpful in all aspects,” he said.
After presentations about being a me-
diator, students will learn conflict reso-lution skills and practice them through mock scenarios.
“For years we have trained approxi-
mately 30 law students every year, ex-cept for last year,” Loschiavo said. “We have found that their schedules can be challenging to work with, so we made 
the decision to shift our focus from law 
students to offer the training campus wide.”
Victoria Jobe, the president of Gators 
for Alternative Dispute Resolution, said mediation is very important.
The UF law student helped plan the 
training.
“It’s mutually beneficial for both par-
ties to have someone from the inside to be able to help you and help train you,” the 25-year-old said.
Loschiavo said they are looking to 
train about 30 students. Interested stu-dents can contact the office to reserve a spot, he said.Mediation training availableBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Construction forced Italian 
Gator Pizza by the Slice to close its window for the foreseeable future.
The good news: It will have 
double the space and more top-pings when it reopens in late April or early May, owner Joel Mills said.
Mills said he worked in pizzeri-
as starting at age 17, and he always dreamed of owning a business. At the age of 28, he spent all his sav-
ings on the 122-square-foot space 
off University Avenue and moved to Gainesville with his pregnant wife.
He’s served food out of a 3-foot-
wide window with his staff ever since.
On Jan. 16, the business closed 
as major structural changes started 
taking place next door.“It’s out of my control, but I’m 
going to utilize the situation to make Italian Gator the best I can,” 
he said.
Italian Gator will have new 
electrical and plumbing systems, Mills said, along with larger ovens that will hold 12 pizzas, twice the amount he could previously make 
at one time.
He said the last few years have 
been his busiest, and the addition 
of a larger window, combined 
with a second cashier during peak 
hours, will slice wait times.
In the meantime, cashiers such 
as Christina Montana are work-ing at one of three Piesano’s Stone 
Fired Pizza locations, which Mills 
co-owns with three other people.
Montana said she visited the 
restaurant twice a week as a UF 
undergraduate, and her passion for pizza turned into a job two years 
ago.
“From where the cashier stands, 
it’s like serving pizza to a horde of zombies,” she said. “Some peo-ple are trying to climb in, they’re 
shouting, some are fighting each 
other.”
Danielle Rosen, a 21-year-old 
UF marketing senior, said most of her family hails from New York, 
and she enjoys Italian Gator’s au-
thenticity.
“Nothing is comparable,” she 
said. “I’m really, really upset.”Pizza by the Slice closed, under construction for an expansion 
AN ANONYMOUS DONOR 
OFFERED TO MATCH ANY MONEY 
RAISED BY THE SANCTUARY.
By Jessica Schein
Alligator Contributing Writer
Bongo, a 21-year-old brown capuchin mon-
key, made a home at Jungle Friends Primate 
Sanctuary after years of living in a small labora-tory cage.
Kari Bagnall, the sanctuary’s founder, said 
Bongo was subjected to toxic studies at an anonymous university. Professionals said the paraplegic monkey would never walk again, and they recommended he be euthanized.
KC, a fellow female brown capuchin, be-
friended Bongo after he arrived at the sanctu-ary.
Three months later, he was walking.An anonymous donor recently offered to 
match any funds raised by the sanctuary in three months, up to a maximum of $25,000. Fundraising started Monday as the Year of the Monkey began.
Bongo lives among hundreds of “miracle 
monkeys” that were previously abandoned by pet owners or subjected to lab testing.
Bagnall said she dated a man in Las Vegas 
who wanted to give away his pet monkey, Sa-mantha. She kept the monkey and left the man, following her love for monkeys ever since.
Samantha, now 23 years old, lives at the 
sanctuary, as does Bagnall and about seven other people.
The sanctuary operates under a no-kill con-
cept and uses private donations and grants to care for the monkeys, Bagnall said. Basic care is about $2,000 a year for each monkey.
“In my heart of hearts, I can’t look at that 
monkey and say, ‘You’re going to cost too much, I’m going to kill you because you cost 
too much,’” Bagnall said.    
Apprentice Veronika Blanco, 33, works with 
25 monkeys every day.
“They are individuals,” she said. “So, some-
times they are in a good mood; sometimes they 
are not. Every day is completely different, so it is a good reason to wake up in the morning.”Sanctuary raises funds 
for miracle monkeys
TACO TUESDAY
Students line the street outside Tijuana Flats on University Avenue on Tuesday night for the 
chance to get two free tacos. The Woodlands of Gainesville hosted the event, offering free food and drinks to the first 100 people in line.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
It will open in April or May
“From where the cashier 
stands, it’s like serving pizza 
to a horde of zombies. Some 
people are trying to climb in, 
they’re shouting, some are 
fighting each other.”
Christina Montana
cashier
CAMPUSWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
CAMPUS
By Emanuel Griffin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students can learn about engi-
neering next week.
UF’s College of Engineering 
will host its annual Engineers’ 
Week, which actually takes place over 11 days, starting Monday. The celebration discusses how 
important engineering is in soci-
ety through 20 events. The theme this year is “Spark Imagination.”
“We are looking to broaden 
our events this year to also ap-
peal to non-engineers,” said 
Samantha Soto, the executive director of Engineers’ Week. “En-gineering is everywhere, and you can’t escape it. It’s something we 
should all celebrate.”
The events will also display 
the relationship between engi-
neering and other fields of study. The USA Science and Engineer-
ing Festival in Washington, D.C. 
combines engineering and fine arts.
“There are so many different 
types of people involved in Engi-neers’ Week, and we all have to work together to make the week come together,” said Eric Sinco, the assistant director of Engi-
neers’ Week.
Ryan Clements, a UF com-puter science freshman, said he 
is looking forward to Engineers’ 
Week because it will change mis-
conceptions about engineering.
“The whole point of the week 
is to submerge people in engi-neering,” the 19-year-old said. 
“We also get to break people’s 
views that engineering is all about solving math problems.”
Clements said he is looking 
forward to the Engineering and Science Fair, which students from across the state attend to learn about engineering.
“I’m looking forward to seeing 
the smiles on kids’ faces when they see something so cool that they can’t comprehend it,” Clem-ents said. “I think we all remem-
ber one piece of technology we 
liked so much that our parents had to rip us away from it. I hope our activities plant that seed of excitement.”
Soto said UF’s Benton En-
gineering Council and various student organizations have been planning this year’s Engineers’ 
Week since September.
“We want students to have a 
chance to take a break, talk to 
some new people and have some fun,” Soto said. “With this year’s 
theme, we want ideas to come 
out of this week.”
UF engineers host 66th annual Engineers’ Week on campus
By Renee Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Florida Agricultural Hall of Fame in-
ducted three UF alumni Tuesday night.
Joseph Joyce, Thomas Braddock and 
Charles “Chip” Hinton were recognized for their contributions to the state’s agriculture industry at the 37th annual banquet and ceremony in Tampa. The three helped en-
courage youth to be involved with agricul-
ture and were nominated in September for their work.
Only four people are usually inducted 
each year, said Reggie Brown, the president 
of the Florida Agricultural Hall of Fame.
Billy Kempfer, an advocate for UF’s In-
stitute of Food and Agricultural Science and 
the Animal Science Department, was also 
inducted.Joyce helped establish IFAS’s Center for 
Leadership, Braddock is a retired IFAS ex-tension director for Duval County and Hin-
ton helped create new varieties of strawber-ries, which increased the fruits production 
and brought money to UF.
Joyce said a friend called him in the Fall 
to tell him he was nominated for the award. 
He said he never thought about being in the 
hall of fame before then.
“My first reaction is, ‘How in the world did they pick me?’” Joyce said.
Brown said the four inductees have sup-
ported leadership development programs 
and youth education. Getting inducted into the hall of fame is the most prestigious hon-
or in Florida agriculture, he said.
“This group, for the large part, is a group 
of individuals who have been dedicated to 
youth education and career opportunity for 
students on campus and youth across the 
state,” Brown said.
While serving in the Army Reserves for 
28 years, Joyce said he led an effort to man-age invasive water hyacinths in Florida, a 
type of flower that lives on water.
Joyce retired from UF last year. Being 
at UF allowed him to build relationships, 
which he said helped him to become in-
ducted.
“It’s about who you know and, more im-
portantly, who you help,” Joyce said.UF alumni honored for contributions to state agriculture
Braddock
Hinton
Joyce
Kempfer
MONDAY, FEB. 15
Engineering T alk
Reitz Union Auditorium
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17
“Hunger Games” Design 
Competition at Flavet Field
FRIDAY, FEB. 19
Engineering Olympics
Flavet Field
The Engineering Pageant
Phillips Center for the 
Performing Arts
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
SOME ASSEMBL Y REQUIRED
Claire LeBlanc, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering sophomore, assembles a brake line 
on the frame of a mini Formula 1 car under construction in the Gator Motorsports garage on Tuesday night. The car, which will compete in Formula SAE Michigan in May, is scheduled to drive for the first time Feb. 17.Sandeep Bedadala / Alligator
COFFEE PHILOSOPHY
Steph Jamis from Maryland and Elise Morrison from California, both UF soil and water science graduate students, catch up over coffee outside the Hub on Tuesday morning. “We are having a philosophical talk, ” Steph said. “The chilly weather certainly influences our thinking when we set out to start the day, but the coffee has been a good help so far counteracting the weather’s effects. ”
They were inducted Tuesday
“This group, for the large part, is a group 
of individuals who have been dedicated to 
youth education and career opportunity for 
students on campus and youth across the 
state.”
Reggie Brown
president of the Florida Agricultural Hall of FameThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Yes, ‘aks’ is a real, legitimate English word
Few pronunciations in English are as con-
troversial as that of the verb ‘aks.’ The top-rated deﬁ  nition for ‘aks’ on Urbandic-tionary.com puts it bluntly, summarizing all the critiques I’ve heard: “What retards 
say when they don’t know how to pronounce the word ask,” citing the hypothetical example, “Yo dogg… I gotta aks you a question.”
Luckily, more reﬁ  ned sources provide other 
instances of this form’s use, one being the Cover-dale Bible (the ﬁ  rst complete English translation of the Bible), which pronounces: “Axe and it shall be given,” and also Geoffrey Chaucer, who wrote in “The Canterbury Tales”: “Yow loveres axe I now this ques-
tion…” But what do they know?
‘Aks’ and ‘ask’ both derive from one verb in Old Eng-
lish that featured the same transposition of sounds and 
gave rise to two equally-valid pronunciations: ‘ascian’ and ‘acsian.’ In linguistic terminology, this transposition, or swapping of sounds, is called metathesis, and it accounts for the pronunciation of words like ‘iron’ and ‘asterisk.’ These examples also evidence, as we are all wont to ac-knowledge, that English isn’t necessarily pronounced as 
it is spelled.
In the development of Modern English, the two forms 
were equally legitimate (which explains their use above), 
yet, eventually, ‘ask’ was inadvertently adopted as the “standard” form (notably in Shakespeare and the King James Bible) and the use of ‘aks’ began to mark lower socioeconomic status and fell out of use for many. At any rate, ‘aks’ is not a random or even novel bastardization of the verb ‘ask.’
Fast-forward to our American present, and we know 
full well that many (among them plenty of self-professed “grammarians”) suffer the ignorance of this fact and are quick to write off any pronunciation or form stemming from Ebonics (‘aks’ being one of the most salient) as “ig-norant,” “ungrammatical” or even “not English.”
Their view is ill-informed and profoundly offensive, and 
as such, we should scrutinize and ultimately dismiss it.Speakers of nonstandard varieties of lan-
guage (who generally represent the marginal-ized within society) are forced to subordinate themselves and their way of being to the domi-nant culture. As such, black Americans (along 
with other minority groups in the U.S.) are 
wholly more subjected to hegemonic White cul-ture than the reverse.
For the entirety of their history, black Ameri-
cans have been ordered around and spoken down to in so-called “standard (read: Anglo) American English,” and simultaneously expect-
ed to adopt this same variety as their own, though it has no authentic role in black culture, history or inter-group 
communication.
“Subversive” linguistic forms and practices, in this case 
Ebonics and its phonological system, serve as markers and 
monuments for those who have resisted the oppressive-ness of assimilation and the imposition of a “standard.”
As linguist John McWhorter has so brilliantly ex-
pressed, “The simple fact is that because ‘ax’ is blackness, it has survived and will continue to.”
Language is ultimately, and essentially, a communica-
tive endeavor. Insofar as the meaning of “Ima aks you a question” is readily understandable (which it verily is), it is not problematic, and the grammar Nazis among us should not feel any source of power or pride in snickering at ‘aks’ and marking it “(sic).”
I exhort all those who get up in arms about Ebonics and 
other “non-standard” forms of language to carefully con-sider the real source of their discontent. I am willing to bet it has a lot more to do with securing/demonstrating power 
and prestige than any concern for language itself.
After all, language, unlike oppression and human cru-
elty, is inherently dynamic and, as such, ever-changing. 
This is one of many reasons for which language affords people a crucial means of deﬁ  ning their identity and, by extension, surmounting injustice.
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.In today’s wars, 
everybody loses
On Friday, online conservative publication The Daily Caller ran the attention-grabbing headline “Prof Bans Students From Saying ‘Husband’ Or ‘Wife’ Because It’s Not ‘In-clusive.’” Author Peter Hasson opens the article with the following sentence: “In just the latest instance of taxpayer-
funded censorship, students in one University of Florida course have been banned from using words such as ‘husband,’ ‘wife,’ ‘mom’ or ‘dad’ in the classroom and risk losing points off their grade if they don’t comply.” “Taxpayer-funded censorship”? “Uni-versity of Florida”? “Dad”?! Juicy, rage-inducing stuff, right? Let’s learn more: “In the syllabus for her ‘Creativity In Context’ class… UF professor Jennifer Lee informs students of her four-paragraph long classroom ‘communications policy’ that she says will enforce ‘ethical conduct’ in the classroom.” The controversial “ethical 
conduct” Hasson is speaking of refers to Lee’s provisions for in-
clusive language and behavior in the classroom. Such provisions include the substitution of gender-based words like boyfriend and girlfriend or husband and wife in favor of “partner” or ”signiﬁ  cant other” and “family,” as to be “inclusive of alternative orientations and family structures.”
Also drawing Hasson’s ire is Lee’s “Safe Education Environ-
ment Policy,” which holds that “each student’s contributions of questions and answers are essential, any behavior or language 
that makes others feel unsafe or unwelcome in this classroom can 
and will not be tolerated. Examples range from simply interrupt-ing or ignoring others... to overt harassment or intimidation with reference to race, gender identity, sexual identity, religion, ethnic-ity, nationality, or ability.” 
Let’s be honest: Both this article and the syllabus it criticiz-
es are pretty terrible. Hasson’s article is quick to use words like “comply,” “ban” and “required” when referring to Lee’s class-room conditions. In actuality, no such language appears in the 
sections highlighted, phrases like “Required Textbook” and “Re-
quired Supplies” excepted. Hasson is also the type of person to tweet things like “If Chelsea gets an abortion will you still call it a grandchild?” to Hillary Clinton, so, you know, not really the best arbiter for moral righteousness.
Meanwhile, the syllabus itself contains policies that are indis-
putably sensible, like restricting racial and sexual harassment. However, although undoubtedly written with only the best of in-tentions, several of the rules stipulated are yet another example 
of unnecessary language policing in the name of inclusivity and 
tolerance. Yes, there are individuals who do not conform to the gender binary or “traditional” relationship template set forth by mainstream American society, but prohibiting the use of inoffen-sive familial words not only fails to make a substantive or positive difference in the lives of, well, anyone, but also fails spectacularly at engendering individuals to become more open-minded and em-pathetic. 
What’s more, “each student’s contributions of questions and 
answers are essential”? Uh, no: This reads like the work of a per-son who has never set foot in a college classroom. Although there is not a person alive that does not deserve a bare modicum of respect, and as wonderful as the exchange of diverse ideas is, col-lege students have been known to say incredibly stupid things in the classroom. We’ve all heard them: “Why NOT fascism?” or, our personal favorite, “The Holocaust? Pssh, with that many Jews, Hitler would’ve been ran right outta Berlin!” But we digress. Both Hasson and Lee are unfortunate personiﬁ  cations of the cultural 
and social polarization that has poisoned America’s intellectual 
well. Yes, you can be a morally righteous person without answer-ing to Judeo-Christian ideology, and no, those Bernie Sanders-Hill-ary Clinton memes are not sexist; Hillary’s just a panderer. Life operates in shades of gray: For the sake of both our sanity and our nation’s intellectual dignity, it’s time we ﬁ  gured that out.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgSPECIAL SECTION  Fun and Fitness  -  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   78   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016  -  SPECIAL SECTION  Fun and Fitness  
Always be Prepared!
By Samantha Evans, MS, CHES
Health Promotion Specialist at 
GatorWell Health Promotion Services
Information provided by UF GatorWell Health Promotion ServicesAccidents can happen:  Condoms can break because they are past the 
expiration date, stored improperly, or used incorrectly, especially in the heat of the moment. If you’re worried that a condom may break, you may want to keep the following points in mind.
Condoms, and other barrier methods, should never be stored in a wallet, car, or direct 
sunlight because heat, even body heat, weakens the product’s material over time. 
Oil-based lubricants cause condoms (both the ‘roll-on’ and ‘insertable’ ones) to break. 
Instead choose a water or silicone-based lube (KY, Astroglide, Wet, etc) which is safe for use with condoms by helping to prevent breakage by reducing friction, and can be used with other barrier methods, as well. 
Never use two ‘roll-on’ condoms at once, or a ‘roll-on’ and ‘insertable’ condom together, 
because the friction can cause both condoms to break. 
When using a condom, first check the expiration date and squeeze the condom pack -
age to ensure it still has an air bubble (if it does not, the package and condom may be punctured). 
Open the package carefully (no teeth, nails, or scissors). For a ‘roll-on’ condoms, pinch 
the tip of the condom to leave space for ejaculation and unroll the condom all the way down. 
After sex, hold the base of the ‘roll-on’ condom before withdrawing. 
If you or your partner ever find yourself in a sit-
uation where a condom does break there are a few things to consider.  If pregnancy prevention is a concern, consider following your condom breaking incident with Plan B.  Also known as emergency contraception, or EC, the high-dose birth control pill is available over-the-counter and can prevent pregnancy if taken within 72 hours. Plan B is most effective when within 24 hours.  Women and men over 17 years of age can call a doctor, a health clinic, a pharmacy, or place an overnight order from Drugstore.com without a prescription.If sexually transmitted infections (STI) prevention is a concern, there are some things to 
consider.  There are different ‘window periods’, or time it takes for the STI to be detect-ed in a persons’ system, so the timing of testing is important.  Check out this resource from the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) to get a better idea of when/if you should get tested (https:/ /gettested.cdc.gov/).  When it does come time to test, there are some reasonably priced or even free options to consider on campus or in the Gainesville community.  Free confidential HIV testing for UF students is available on cam-pus at the GatorWell main office (352-273-4450) by appointment only.  HIV testing , as well as other STI testing (including Chlamydia, Gonorrhea and Syphilis), is also available at the Student Health Care Center (352-294-7465), Planned Parenthood of North Florida (352-377-0881) and at the Alachua County Health Department (352-334-7960). Depending on the site, pricing ranges from free to fees determined by a sliding scale fee or based on your insurance.  Some ﬁ  nal 
tips:
- If you’re going someplace 
sunny, always bring sunscreen and protective clothing like hats and sunglasses. Make sure sunscreen has UVA/UVB protection and at least SPF 15. Start with 1 oz. of sunscreen and reapply every 2 hours.
- If you’re traveling outside of 
the United States, make sure you’re aware of international laws and cultural customsSafe travels and even safer partying!SPECIAL SECTION  Fun and Fitness  -  WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Travel Smart!
First of all:If you do decide to drink:As an alcohol educator on a college campus, you’re often asked to provide advice or tips about how to party or go out safer. Spring Break is a time for students to relax, socialize, and take a break from studying and class. It is also a time to get outside of Gainesville and help others 
through alternative Spring Break trips! To prevent your Spring Break from becoming a disaster, here are some tips to follow to travel smarter:By Alicia Baker, MA, MPH, CHES; Health Promotion Specialist, GatorWell Health Promotion Services
Information provided by UF GatorWell Health Promotion Services- If you’re under the age of 21, avoid consuming alcohol! It IS possible to have a great Spring Break experience without alcohol being a part of it.
- If you’re out with friends that are 
drinking and you do not want to drink, offer to be their designated driver or sober leader to get everyone back safely.
- When going out anywhere on a 
Spring Break trip, there is safety in numbers! Go out as a group and look out for each other’s safety.- Before you drink, make sure to eat a full meal with some protein. Try to snack throughout the night if you can. Don’t believe the myth that food can sober a drunk person up; the only thing that sobers a drunk person up is time.
- Be mindful of drinking outside in hot weather. Alcohol is a diuretic, 
which can cause dehydration; mixing a diuretic in hot weather can lead to cramping, exhaustion, and heatstroke. 
- Remember to pace and space! Stick to one alcoholic drink an hour (12 
oz. of beer, 5 oz. of wine, or 1.5 oz. of liquor), but space those out further by drinking water or soda between alcoholic drinks.
- Avoid drinking shots, playing drinking games, or combining alcohol with 
energy drinks. Fast consumption of alcohol, as well as combining alcohol with an energy drink, can lead to alcohol poisoning. 
- Watch the bartender make or open your drink. Don’t accept drinks from 
strangers and keep an eye on your drink at all times to prevent someone from slipping something in your drink.
- As alcohol consumption increases, ability to consent decreases. 
Engaging in sexual activity should always include sober, mutual, 
voluntary, and enthusiastic consent!10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016  -  SPECIAL SECTION  Fun and Fitness  
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
Get up to get down with ﬁ  tness
By Natalie Rella, MPH, CPH; Health Promotion Specialist 
Incorporating physical activity into your day 
can be a healthy habit that beneﬁ  ts every 
aspect of your life including stress and anxiety, mood, energy, weight management, and sleep.  According to the 2013 Healthy Gators survey 52% of UF students responded that they do not get the recommended amount of moderate exercise (30 minutes, 5-7 days per week). In the same survey students ranked “stress/anxiety” and “overweight/obesity/weight management” as their top two health concern.  Sound relatable?  
The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention recommends adults should do at least 2 hours and 30 minutes each week of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity or 1 hour and 15 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity per week. Additionally, muscle training 2 or more days a week is recommended. You’ll know if you are working at a moderate level if you are able to talk while participating in these activities, but not sing.  You know you are doing vigorous aerobic activity when you are breathing hard and unable to say more than a few words without taking a breath. Here are some tips to help you get started or increase your current level of physical activity:
You don’t have to leave 
your house. 
 Use technology.  Try online ﬁ  tness 
videos, or ﬁ  tness DVDs. 
 Get up during commercials and 
study breaks and do some jump-jacks, sit-ups, or push-ups.  
Get Social! 
 Get an exercise buddy that will keep you 
motivated.  
 Go to a group ﬁ  tness class and hit the gym at RecSports
 Grab a couple friends and take a trip out to Lake Wauberg: canoeing, ropes course, climbing, disc 
golf, mountain biking, sailing, water sports!  
 Join an intermural team, club team or physical 
activity-related student organization. 
 Try New Things.
 UF Rec Sports has multiple options for all sorts of 
ﬁ  tness activities-check out they’re website! 
 The Gainesville Rock Gym offers a fun rock climbing experience.  
 If you’re up for a little adventure, the Lake Alice walking/biking path, Paynes Prairie State Preserve, 
Morningside Trails, and/or San Felasco Hammock 
Preserve are fun options to experience nature while getting in some physical activity.  
Other Tips.
 Gradually build new activities or longer time spent exercising into your routine.  
 Feel proud of your accomplishments and celebrate your successes!  Use an app to keep track.
 Keep at it! Try new things until you ﬁ  nd an activity that is both challenging and fun.  The more you incorporate 
physical activity into your daily routine, the more you will start to feel the beneﬁ  ts of it. Get a friend, set up a 
couple times you’re available during the week, and get moving!  Change your daily routines. 
 Park at the end of the parking lot on your errands.  
 Take the stairs instead of the elevator.
 Chores count too-vacuum, dust, mop, scrub, they all get you 
moving.
 Bike to campus and to classes.
 Walk to that next class rather than taking the bus.
 Use a phone app to track your steps…every step counts!1 2
3 4
5
Information provided by UF GatorWell Health Promotion ServicesWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-11-15-20-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal infor-
mation or arranging meetings or investing UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Designated drivers are the greatest
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14Servers Needed!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
2-10-5-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21National NPO
P/T position for social media posting, web 
content management -hours flexible. Email: 
noscarson@tna-support.org    2-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesHighly touted Florida lacrosse 
freshman Lindsey Ronbeck made her collegiate debut on Saturday in UF's win over Loyola.Read the story on pg. 16FIVE GATORS REGISTERED 
DOUBLE-FIGURE SCORING 
AGAINST THE REBELS.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
It wasn’t the prettiest showing Florida could 
have hoped for after a humbling loss to Ken-
tucky on Saturday, but the Gators got it done 
against Ole Miss by making shots when it mat-
tered.
Florida defeated the Rebels 77-72 Tuesday 
night in the O’Connell Center, with five play-
ers scoring in double figures. In doing so, the 
Gators swept the two-game regular-season se-ries against Ole Miss.
Turnovers, sloppy plays and the typical 
missed shots hindered Florida’s production 
on offense, but the Gators made up for it with 
offensive rebounds, hustle in the paint and timely scoring.
Dorian Finney-Smith led Florida (16-8, 
7-4 Southeastern Conference) with 16 points and six rebounds. John Egbunu registered his fourth double-double of the season with 14 points and 10 rebounds, and KeVaughn Allen scored 15 points.
But the most pleasant surprise for the 
Gators was the play of Devin Robinson. The sophomore contributed 15 points, five 
rebounds and one block off the bench. Robin-son shot 5-of-7 from the field including 2-of-3 
from beyond the arc and four of his five re-
bounds came on the offensive glass. Robinson drew a career-high three charges.
“I thought it was the best game of his Gator 
career,” Florida coach Mike White said. “Best day that Devin’s had while I’ve coached him, for sure.”
Ole Miss (15-9, 5-6 SEC) scored 28 points off 
of 16 Florida turnovers, but a lack of balanced 
scoring hurt the Rebels down the stretch. To-
masz Gielo led Ole Miss with 20 points off the bench along with eight rebounds. 
Stefan Moody, the SEC’s leading scorer,  
scored 19 points and dished out two assists but struggled with fouls and turnovers all night. Moody picked up three personal fouls in the first half and fouled out of the game with 1:08 left, and his eight turnovers were half of Ole 
Miss’ 16. 
As a whole, the Rebels shot just 43.1 per-
cent from the field and 42.1 percent (8-of-19) 
from three-point range. 
Florida out-rebounded Ole Miss on the of-
fensive glass 10-8 and blocked five shots to the Rebels’ zero. 
That extra effort, despite shooting 34.8 per-
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Ronni Williams named SEC Player of the Week
UF women's basketball junior Ronni Williams was named SEC Player of 
the Week for the first time in her career on Tuesday. Her 20 points and 15 rebounds led Florida to an 83-81 upset over then-No. 12 T exas A&M last Thursday in the O'Connell Center.Florida edges past Ole Miss 
despite sloppy performance
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
Consistency — especially in a 
three-day campaign — is an impor-
tant factor for any sports team. 
After a fierce three-day battle at 
the Palos Verdes Golf Club in Cali-
fornia, the No. 12 Gators women’s 
golf team used consistent play to finish in third place at the Northrop-Grumman Regional Challenge on Tuesday, posting a 17-over-par team score.
The Gators matched their second-
round score of 7-over-par in the third round to end the tournament and 
secure their spot behind No. 11 Ala-
bama (+12) and No. 14 Washington (+6), which were tied for the lead heading into the final day.
The Gators opened the three-day 
tournament by firing a 3-over-287 on Sunday and started the 16-team tour-nament in fourth place. 
Florida moved within five shots of Alabama and Washington in the second round, but a 1-over-285 per-formance by the Huskies put the tournament out of reach.
While a third-place finish at the 
16-team tournament — which in-cluded the nation's top three teams — is no small feat, the Gators barely managed to crack the top 10 indi-vidually.
After improving significantly on 
Monday, the veteran duo of Karolina Vlckova and Maria Torres finished 
the tournament with better marks 
than ever before.
No one in Florida’s lineup showed 
consistent play like Vlckova, who finished all three rounds at 1-over-par. Tied for 17th place after the first round, she matched her score in the second round and finished in 7th place. However, a matching score 
for the third straight day didn’t cut it 
for Vlckova, as she fell slightly into a tie for 10th overall.
Torres went 4-over for the tour-nament to finish tied for 13th in the 88-person field. She finished by post-ing back-to-back par rounds on the 
final two days.
Unlike Torres and Vlckova, fresh-
man Sam Wagner and junior Kelly 
Grassel saw a consistent decline over the three days. 
The duo started by leading the 
Gators after one round. However, they did not see the same success in the second  and third rounds, and 
ultimately finished in 20th and 33rd, 
respectively.
Sophomore Taylor Tomlinson, on 
the other hand, saw consistent im-provement in her play. Starting the tournament in 42nd place, Tomlin-son  moved up to 20th place by the end of the tournament.
The team will have 12 days to 
rest up after coming back from California, as their next outing on the green will be the Allstate Sugar Bowl Intercollegiate Golf Champi-onship. The three-day tournament begins on Feb. 21. 
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.org
UF women's golf places third in tourneyMEN'S GOLF
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
Florida men’s golf coach J.C. 
Deacon has always preached the 
importance of preparation to his 
team.
He taught them that if they 
bought into his system, the re-
sults would come — and boy, 
did they come.
The No. 5 Gators are ready 
for the rest of the Spring season 
to unfold after blowing away the 15-team field at the Sea Best In-
vitational in Ponte Vedra Beach 
on Feb. 1 and 2.
UF won the tournament, 
held at Dye’s Valley Course at 
TPC Sawgrass, by a colossal 23 
shots. The Gators’ 14-under-par 826 was the lowest score in the eight-year history of the event and the lowest to-par score by six strokes.
“As a coach, it’s nice for me 
to see some results because you work hard and you preach the at-titude and all this stuff, and we 
didn’t get a lot of results in the 
fall,” Deacon said on Monday. “For the guys to see how good they can be and to see the results and to have some fun winning 
… just for them to get a taste of 
what they can be like and what the future could look like was big for me.”
Deacon said his team has 
bought into the process of what it takes to be successful not only as athletes, but as students, as Gators buying 
into coach's systemFlorida finished 17 over par
SEE MEN'S GOLF,  PAGE 15SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith handles the ball during Florida's 77-72 win over Ole Miss on 
Tuesday night in the O'Connell Center.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
cent from beyond the arc, gave the Gators the 
edge. White has been looking for increased effort after a lackluster performance against 
Kentucky. It wasn’t as good as it has been 
this season, it was enough got the job done on Tuesday.
“It was a big game. You know we dropped 
an egg last game to Kentucky, and we just needed to get back on that roll that we had,” 
Robinson said. “So this was a big game for 
us.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 14UF shot 34.8 percent from three
well.
Freshman Sam Horsfield, whose 7-un-
der total at the Sea Best Invitational gave 
him the first victory of his collegiate career, 
is someone who embodies the culture Dea-con is trying to establish.
“Sam came in as someone who had fo-
cused on golf his whole life, and school was kind of on the back burner for him,” Deacon said. 
“He got a bit of a wake-up call early on 
in the semester, and he really ran with it. 
He changed his attitude. He embraced aca-
demics.
“Just as a man, the confidence that he 
gained in life from that and embracing 
something that he really didn’t want to do, 
you know, and getting a great accomplish-ment out it was huge for him.”
But Deacon said it’s not just one guy 
buying into the system.
In addition to Horsfield, the Gators 
placed three players inside the top four at the Sea Best.
Sophomore Alejandro Tosti finished 
second while freshman Jorge Garcia and junior Ryan Orr tied for fourth place. 
The Gators have something to build on 
now. 
After winning their last two events go-
ing back to the Fall season, the Gators will be at home for their next event when 
they tee it up at the 38th-annual SunTrust 
Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course on Feb. 20 and 21.
Deacon said nothing will change about 
the way they’ll prepare. 
He said his team is going to continue 
doing all the little things that have brought 
on their recent success.
“You can’t control the results, but you 
sure as heck can control the process,” Dea-
con said. “We’re getting back to that pro-
cess.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgMEN'S GOLF,  from pg 14Florida has won its last two 
tournaments going back to Fall
Alligator File Photo
Alejandro T osti putts during the 2015 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course. 
TRACK AND FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Complacency can be the Achil-
les heel of an athlete. If an athlete 
starts off a season seeing suc-
cess early, they might forget how 
much work it took to get there. If an athlete starts a season off ter-ribly, he or she might get discour-
aged and accept defeat early. 
Florida track and field coach 
Mike Holloway is making sure that doesn’t become an issue.
“I caution my athletes on this 
all the time. If you have success 
in a early season meet, don’t car-ry that with you," Holloway said. 
"If you were successful, leave that in the building. If you had a 
bad meet, leave that in the build-ing.” 
Two weeks removed from the 
Southeastern Conference Indoor Championships on Feb. 26-27, athletes from UF’s men and wom-en’s teams will be split between two meets this weekend: the Iowa 
State Classic and the Tyson Invi-
tational.
“It is all about getting qualify-
ing marks for nationals,” Hollo-
way said. “The athletes that are 
going to the Iowa State meet are going there because the competi-tion in their events, the 5K, the 3k, the mile, the 800, are stronger 
in that competition. The athletes going to Tyson is where the better 
competition is for them.”
While UF hasn’t competed in 
the Iowa State Classic since last season, the athletes traveling to the Tyson Invitational in Fayette-ville, Arkansas, are already famil-
iar with the site — they competed on the same track less than two 
weeks ago at the Razorback Invi-tational.
Florida found success at both 
meets last season. At the Iowa State Classic, then-senior Mark Parrish broke his own school re-cord in the 5,000-meter run with a time of 13:41.87, while Jimmy 
Clark (14:04.53) and Eddie Garcia 
(14:14.84) landed in UF’s all-time top-10 list in the same race. 
At the Tyson Invitational the 
Gators posted eight top-five fin-ishes in field events. In addition, then-junior Kyra Jefferson set the 2015 NCAA and world-best time in the women’s 200-meter dash 
by crossing the line in 22.81 sec-onds.
The Gators are hoping past 
success won’t affect their results 
this weekend.
“The worst thing you could 
ever do is have a great perfor-mance, and then get compla-cent,” Holloway said. “Then you have forgotten what it took to get 
you where you are, and you have 
forgotten that we still have work to do. No matter who you are and how well you do, there is always 
someone out there working to 
beat you. So we can’t fall asleep.” 
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org
Gators hoping to avoid complacency in weekend meets
"I caution my athletes on 
this all the time. If you have 
success in a early season meet, 
don’t carry that with you.. If 
you were successful, leave that 
in the building. If you had 
a bad meet, leave that in the 
building.” 
Mike Holloway
UF coach
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson shoots a free throw during UF's 77-72 win over Ole Miss on 
Tuesday night. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016
LACROSSE
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Lindsey Ronbeck’s versatility was in full 
swing in her collegiate lacrosse debut.
In No. 7 Florida’s 15-6 win against a tough 
No. 13 Loyola team on Saturday, the freshman 
midfielder from Manhasset, New York, took 
four shots, collected a ground ball, caused two 
turnovers and won two draw controls.
However, Ronbeck hasn’t always been a 
midfielder. In fact, she was moved from line 
attacker before the season began. 
Florida coach Amanda O’Leary admitted 
that it was hard to put a freshman into a com-
plete positional transition while also helping her transition to a new home in a new state, especially before her first college game. 
But Ronbeck has responded well to the 
change.
“She embraced it,” O’Leary said. “ She 
went 100 percent in with it and has worked really, really hard to be the best midfielder she 
could possibly be.”
Ronbeck has also taken on the mentality 
that she isn’t just a goal scorer and, despite 
just the one game played, has proven that she is a midfielder who opponents need to be aware of. 
“What she did between the 30s and on our 
defensive end,” O’Leary said, “you just can’t put a price on.” 
While Ronbeck had a solid first game, ju-
nior Mollie Stevens was Florida’s biggest sta-tistical contributor. 
She provided one-third of the Gators’ scor-
ing Saturday, setting a career-high in just the first game of the regular season.
While the box score may say otherwise — 
she had five goals, a career-high-tying eight shots and no assists — Stevens was making team plays against Loyola in ways she had yet to show prior to this season.
“What was most exciting for me was not 
only her ability to finish on the inside but also her ability to find her teammates, to make smart decisions when she didn’t have a shot,” O’Leary said. “She passed it off, and I think that’s just a maturity level of our offense.”
The level of maturation that O’Leary men-
tioned was on display against Loyola, both in the game and on paper.
Nine out of 15 goals scored by the Gators 
went assisted, which is almost 20 percent higher than last season’s ratio.
“Most of our goals were assisted, so it 
shows that our players are keeping their heads up,” O’Leary said. “They feel confident 
in each other to be able to throw them the ball 
and let them finish.”
A big mishap for Florida against the Grey-
hounds, however, was turnovers. UF commit-ted 10, all in the second half.
O’Leary believes that seeing the mistakes 
in the film room will help her players learn from them.
“Once they make the mistake,” O’Leary 
said, “they’ve realized they’ve made it and they want a do-over, but they’re not gonna get a do-over.”
One strategy the coach turns to when these 
problems occur is creating uncomfortable sit-uations in practice in order for her team to be ready for uneasy moments in the games. 
Mental errors aside, the bright spots — 
passing, winning 50-50 balls and solid de-
fense — outnumbered the not-so-bright spots 
against Loyola, and O’Leary was left feeling confident about her team’s direction.
“We obviously have a lot to prepare for,” 
O’Leary said. “But I think we’re in a good place right now.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgFreshman off to strong start
FLORIDA DROPPED BOTH 
MATCHES BY ONE POINT EACH 
TO RANKED OPPONENTS.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The late pro football hall-of-fame coach 
Vince Lombardi once famously stated, “It’s not whether you get knocked down; it’s whether you get up.” UF’s men’s tennis team is taking that adage to heart this week. 
Despite losing its last two matches to Texas 
Tech on Jan. 24 and Southern California on Jan. 30, the Gators continued to display an un-wavering positive attitude toward their future.
“I think this group truly believes in one 
another,” coach Bryan Shelton said. “I think they truly believe that this could be a very spe-cial year for us, and so I think that they feel like, let’s get back to work, let’s get back on 
the horse, we’ve got a lot more great opportu-
nities that lie ahead.”
Florida has little to be ashamed of as far 
as its losses to the Red Raiders and Trojans, as both teams are highly touted and highly ranked.
Texas Tech boasts the No. 2-ranked dou-
bles tandem in the country and is ranked No. 14 overall, while USC is ranked No. 6 over-
all and has won five of the past seven NCAA 
Championships. The Gators fell to both teams 4-3, proving that despite the losses, they are capable of competing with some top teams.
Junior co-captain Elliott Orkin said the 
Gators are already over the losses and are fo-cused entirely on what’s next.
“We’re not really thinking about those two 
matches that much. We’re using it more as a 
learning experience,” Orkin said. “We’re re-ally looking at these next two weeks to really 
improve in a bunch of different areas.”
Orkin and fellow captain senior Diego Hi-
dalgo have been the Gators’ most consistent 
players so far this season. 
Orkin is 7-3 overall, with a 4-1 record in 
singles and a 3-2 record in doubles. Hidalgo is 
5-1 overall, with a 3-1 singles record and 2-0 doubles record.
“I feel like I’m gaining more confidence 
each match I play,” Orkin said.
The team’s other two upperclassmen, se-
nior Gordon Watson and junior Maxx Lip-man, have had solid starts to their seasons as well. Lipman has gone 3-1 in doubles this season, while Watson has gone 2-1 in dou-bles and won his first singles match of season against USC 7-6, 7-5.
“(Watson) was not healthy early, but he’s 
coming back into good health again and good form, so it’s been nice to see him,” Shelton said.
The Gators will look to end their two-match 
losing streak on Saturday when they take on the unranked Furman Paladins in Gainesville. The match was added to their schedule on Feb. 5 to make up for a past match against UCLA that was canceled due to rain.
@dylandrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgMen’s tennis team moving on 
from back-to-back losses
“I think they truly believe that this 
could be a very special year for us, 
and so I think that they feel like, let’s 
get back to work, let’s get back on 
the horse, we’ve got a lot more great 
opportunities that lie ahead.”
Bryan Shelton 
UF coach