We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 136 FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
Freshmen stepping up 
for Florida softball
Amanda Lorenz is on pace to 
break multiple UF records, pg. 14
Bone marrow donor sign ups
UF holds program to sign up potential donors , pg. 5
Shave the date
Check out the photo story from St. Baldrick’s Foundation, pg. 8Check out our Feature Friday
Heart for Gators: Karen McElwain’s role as ‘Mama Mac’ , pg. 3
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
All Florida universities have 
the opportunity to use Canvas.    
The Board of Governors for 
the State University System of 
Florida, made up of 12 in-state public universities, has decid-ed to use Canvas as its ofﬁ  cial 
online learning system. The 
universities will receive a dis-counted rate for subscribing to the system in 2016, said Brit-tany Davis, the communications 
director for the State University 
System. 
The Board of Governors 
wanted to implement a common 
system so students would not 
have to use multiple platforms for their classes, she said. 
“Across the board, Canvas 
just came off as a very good 
choice,” she said. 
Davis said ﬁ  ve universities 
in the State University System, 
including UF, the University of 
Central Florida and the Univer-
sity of South Florida currently use Canvas. 
She said colleges in the Flor-
ida College System, made up of 
28 state and community colleg-es, including Santa Fe College, 
can also choose to use Canvas.
The cost for universities sub-
scribing to Canvas will change based on the number of univer-sities that decide to use the pro-gram, she said. If universities 
subscribe in 2016, they will get 
a 10-percent discount on sub-scription fees. 
Ashley Wilt, a UF nutritional 
sciences junior, said she prefers using Canvas over other course-
management programs. 
“It’s logical,” the 20-year-old 
said. “It’s kind of laid out simi-
larly to a social media page.” 
She said it would be easier for 
students if more Florida schools used Canvas. When UF used Sakai, she said multiple systems were harder to navigate. 
“I can only imagine trans-
ferring,” she said. “It would be more confusing.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  All Florida 
universities could switch to Canvas  
THE SURVEY WAS 
LAUNCHED MONDAY.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Marston Science Library and Li-
brary West are competing to become 
UF’s favorite library.
And students get to decide who 
wins.
On Monday, the George A. 
Smathers Libraries launched a sur-vey asking for students to choose whether they prefer Marston or Li-brary West to be open 24/5 during the upcoming Fall and Spring semes-ters.
Laura Spears, an assessment li-
brarian, said the libraries worked with Student Government to create a survey that would ask students and 
potential library users.
“We really want to make a deci-
sion that meets our users’ needs be-
cause that’s No. 1,” she said. “We’re really interested in making sure we get accurate information.”
The survey ends Tuesday.Alex Castro, a 23-year-old UF sec-
ond-year law student who works at 
Marston, said he’s seen the library’s 
population grow over the years. Cas-tro said he thinks it has to do with Marston’s Collaboration Commons on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor.
Stan Morisseau, 18, said he likes 
Library West because it’s less con-gested than Marston.
“Honestly, I prefer Library West 
a little bit more, because I like the atmosphere,” the UF mechanical en-gineering freshman said.
He added that he understands 
Marston’s central location makes it easier for students to access. But he’s still a fan of Library West.
“I think if West was 24/5, I think 
it’d be a lot better,” he said. “It’s just 
a really good environment.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org Students asked to pick 24/5 librarySTATE
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
For a second time, fast food meant 
fast cash.
Two Gainesville men were charged 
Wednesday night after Gainesville 
Police said they stole about $940 from a McDonald’s drive-thru window last month, according to a police report.
At about 11 p.m. on March 9, Thomas Jerome Lundy, 18, drove to the McDonald’s on Northwest 43rd 
Street with Aubrey Desean Strong, 
19, according to the report.
As Lundy waited nearby, Strong 
walked up to the drive-thru window 
and grabbed a cash drawer, which 
held about $940. He then got back into the car, and the two left the scene, according to the report.
Lundy then drove to a separate McDonald’s location, where the two were once employed, and threw away the emptied cash drawer in a dump-ster, according to the report. 
The McDonald’s manager later 
told police it cost about $400 to re-place the box.
Lundy kept about $200 while 
Strong kept $700, according to the report.
The two were already booked into 
the Alachua County Jail for another drive-thru burglary at the Taco Bell 
on Southwest Archer Road on March 26. The men stole $670 in a cash box 
through the drive-thru window, but were eventually found and arrested after store employees ran after Lundy 
and Strong.
Both men are currently in jail, 
each in lieu of a $190,000 bond. Both 
now face two burglary and two lar-
ceny charges each. 
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.org Local men charged again after another drive-thru looting
Lundy
Strong
They stole about $940“Across the board, Canvas 
just came of as a very good 
choice.”
Brittany Davis
communications directorAndres Leiva / Alligator Staff
SHAVING FOR A GOOD CAUSE
Eugene Cho, a 21-year-old UF civil engineering junior, and Nikki Picon, an 18-year-old UF pre- nursing fresh-
man, have their heads shaved on Norman Field on Thursday at St. Baldrick’s 2016. The Freshman Leader-ship Council put on the event for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation, a nonproﬁ  t that helps fund cancer research.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Get in the game with Be The 
Match to save lives
The Athletic Training Program 
in UF’s College of Health and 
Human Performance is calling on every member of The Gator Nation to get in the game to save 
a life. Help UF beat other com-
peting universities for the most people registered as potential marrow donors on the national Be The Match Registry. Register 
yourself on campus at the first 
event today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the lawn in front of the Infirmary Building, located at 
280 Fletcher Drive, or register 
and take part in the competi-tion online at join.bethematch.org/UF. If you are between the ages of 18 and 44, patients need 
you. Learn more at shcc.ufl.
edu/be-the-match-uf.
GatorNights
Are you up for whatever? For one night only, students will get to choose their paths — Orange or Blue — at GatorNights to-night from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. 
at the Reitz Union. The event 
will be a complete surprise, based on the path you choose. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Daddy’s Home” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. Free bowling and 
pool tables will also be a part of the GatorNights event. The night will end with free nachos 
during Midnight Munchies. 
This event is free for UF stu-dents with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students 
are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.
Slow Art Day at the Harn 
MuseumJoin us at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for Slow Art Day, a celebration of art that encourages you to slow down, 
view art and then engage in a 
dialogue of reflection and dis-covery. This event will take place Saturday at 11 a.m. More 
information can be found on 
the website: slowartday.com.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the 
paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper. 
CORRECTIONS:
In a photo caption regard-ing Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s Disney-themed 
event Tuesday, Seth Singson-
Robbins is actually a statistics and economics senior. The Alligator reported otherwise.
In a photo caption regard-
ing the Earth Day event on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday, Naomi, a red-tailed 
boa, belongs to Megan Ellis. 
The Alligator reported other-wise.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 136
HIGH  82° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
By Kirsten Chuba
Alligator Staff Writer
“Go Gators!” is scribbled in 
Sharpie on individually wrapped 
sugar, peanut butter, M&M and chocolate chip cookies.
This is what awaits the Florida 
Gators football team after their Wednesday practices for “Special Treat Wednesday.” The plastic bags are signed “Mama Mac,” or as she is more widely known, Karen McElwain, head coach Jim McEl-wain’s wife.
It’s a tradition the couple started 
during Jim McElwain’s tenure at 
Colorado State University. Karen 
McElwain and the other coaches’ wives would bake cookies for the football players as a mid-week re-ward.
“It’s just really important to get 
to know them on the other side of football, little things to get to know them to their faces,” she said.
•   •   •
For more than 30 years, Karen 
McElwain has bonded with her husband’s players from around the country as the couple has moved around for Jim McElwain’s coach-
ing jobs. Now, having lived in 
Gainesville for a year, Karen McEl-wain’s role is “Mama Mac” for the Gators.
After a 10-win season and a trip 
to the SEC Championship, it was quite the first year for the McEl-wains. Jim McElwain was named 2015 SEC Coach of the Year, and the team recently wrapped up a successful recruiting season, with the 2016 class ranked No. 12 ac-
cording to ESPN Insider.
For this new Florida family, 
football is just the surface.“It’s important to the McEl-
wains that it’s all about family,” 
Karen McElwain said.
And the matriarch of the Florida 
Gators family is “Mama Mac.”
During the recruiting process, 
she and her husband get to know the football prospects from the start. Recruits and their families come over to the McElwains’ home for a weekend of food and fun. Plus, the McElwains get the chance 
to bond with the athletes who may 
become Gators.
“We think it’s important that 
they get to come to our house so they know where we live and know what we’re all about,” Karen McElwain said.
•   •   •
It was a long road for the McEl-
wains before they ended up in Gainesville. 
The two met in college at East-
ern Washington University, where 
Jim McElwain was a quarterback 
for the football team. 
Karen McElwain grew up in 
Washington and worked as a bar-tender in college. Jim McElwain cooked stuffed mushrooms for her in his dorm room on one of their dates. 
They married in 1988, and so 
began their cross-country journey as a football family. They have come a long way since then, and they have lived in all areas of the country as Jim McElwain worked his way up the coaching ladder 
with nine different teams. 
The McElwains have three chil-
dren — Hanna, Lizzi and Jerret — 
all of whom attended the Universi-ty of Alabama and worked in their football recruiting office, keeping 
the family’s passion for the game alive.
When the McElwains are able to 
congregate in the same place, food 
takes center stage.
“We all love to cook,” Karen 
McElwain said. “We all get in-volved in the kitchen. We’ve been known to the have the music blast-ing — some classic rock music.”
•   •   •
“Coach Mac” is in charge of the 
grill and the main courses, while “Mama Mac” whips up her signa-ture side dishes and desserts.
Karen McElwain’s love for food 
and her life as a coach’s wife in-spired her to co-found the compa-ny Heart for the Game. The website started five years ago and shares a behind-the-scenes look at football from the perspective of a coach’s wife.
The website, which includes ar-
eas for food, fun and fashion, aims 
to tell the stories of coaches’ wives, 
give gameday recipes and share Karen McElwain’s message about all the good things college football can do for its players.
She says a common misconcep-
tion is that the coaches are only gone for three months during foot-ball season, but with recruiting 
and Spring football, husbands like 
“Coach Mac” are only home for a few weeks in July.
•   •   •
The McElwains keep an open-
door policy during football sea-son: Their home has been dubbed the “Mac Fam Inn” for all of the friends, family and transitioning 
coaches they have housed through-
out the years.
“During the season, for every home game there’s one to four cou-ples staying at the house,” Karen McElwain said. “We’ve even been known to have blow-up mattress-es in the yoga room for people to crash.”
This trail of visitors continues 
into the off-season, when friends the McElwains have collected from across the country come to see the family for  “‘Mama Mac’s’ cooking and ‘Coach Mac’s’ barbeque,” as Karen McElwain calls it.
With one season of Gator foot-
ball under Jim McElwain’s belt, the family has settled into Gainesville.
Karen McElwain said one of her 
favorite things about UF is the fans and how they have “pride, passion and love” for their university. 
“When they have it, it just 
makes you feel happy and you 
want to provide an excellent pro-
gram in more than just football,” she said. “To give that back to the fans who have the pride, passion and love is just a special thing.”
@KirstenChuba
kchuba@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF head football coach Jim McElwain and wife Karen McElwain 
smile before attending an Easter Sunday service last month. The McElwains have been in Gainesville for a year now, with a 10-4 reg-ular season record in Jim McElwain’s first season with the Gators. 
Heart for the Gators
Karen McElwain’s role as ‘Mama Mac’ By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Students won’t see an increase 
in fees for the next school year.
Matthew Hoeck, a former mem-
ber of the UF Local Fee Committee, 
said the decision to not increase the activity and service fee, athletic 
fee and student health fee were 
unanimous.
“We felt that wasn’t what the 
students had asked,” he said. “It was a very lengthy discussion about student investment, and we all came to the conclusion that this was a year that institutions would be OK (without additional fund-ing),” he said.
As a result, when it came to the 
Student Government budget cycle, Budget and Appropriations chair-person Charlie Brown Jr., said the student organizations and academ-ic organizations saw no increase in funding.
He said the Graduate Christian 
Fellowship and Generation Sketch 
Comedy were taken off of the 
budget cycle because they didn’t meet code regulations. Genera-tion Sketch Comedy’s budget was around $600, which fell below the minimum requirement of $1,000, and the Graduate Christian Fellow-ship had a low turnout of students.
At Tuesday’s Senate meeting, 
both the student organization bud-
get and the academic organization 
budget were passed unanimously.
Brown said he’s confident the 
student organizations will still be able to do well with the same fund-ing.
“The major parts were making 
sure our students didn’t lose any of the services they had,” Brown said.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org     4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
ABOUT 120 STUDENTS 
AND COMMUNITY
 MEMBERS ATTENDED.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
A professor from the University of Califor-
nia Berkeley addressed students about secu-
larism Thursday.
Saba Mahmood spoke to about 120 people 
on how the separation of church and state affects Islam. Her presentation took place at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service in 
the Pugh Hall Ocora at 6 p.m. and was free 
to the public. The event was co-sponsored by the Department of Anthropology, the Depart-ment of Religion and the Center for Women’s Studies and Gender Research.
Mahmood compared religious minorities 
in different countries including Baha’is in Egypt and Muslims in France. She discussed minorities’ legal rights and instances of dis-crimination.
“How is discrimination to be judged,” she 
said. “By whom, and what grounds?”
Mahmood told students discrimination is 
the result of majority power.
“We are all implicated in the same prob-
lem, and it’s hard for us to see that,” she said. 
Kevin Baron, the civic engagement coor-
dinator for the center, said Mahmood was brought in to have an open discussion on re-
ligious minorities.
“The idea of the event is bringing in a 
prominent researcher to talk about an impor-
tant subject matter,” he said.
UF political science junior Luke Waldron 
said he thought Mahmood’s speech opened up an interesting dialogue.
“It was a little different than what I 
thought,” the 21-year-old said. “I liked that 
she used examples from both Europe and the 
Middle East.”
@merylkornfield 
mkornfield@alligator.orgProfessor speaks about separation of church and state  
Meryl Kornfield / Alligator Staff
Saba Mahmood spoke to about 120 people on how the separation of church and state 
affects Islam at the Bob Graham Center for Public Service on Thursday.
Student fees won’t increase
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Most annual reports don’t require decoder glasses.
But in an effort to get people to read their 2015 fiscal 
summary, the Gainesville Community Redevelopment Agency partnered with Liquid Creative Studios, a local 
graphic design company, to create an interactive annual 
report and project map. 
Because the agency is required by Florida statutes to 
release a list of money spent on projects over the course 
of the year, the agency decided to design strategies to 
entice potential readers, said Nathalie McCrate, a CRA project manager. Last year, the report was a comic strip.
“Citizens feel like they can’t relate to it, but our proj-
ects are really cool,” she said. “We thought we would do 
a report that people can connect with.”
Liquid Creative Studios was paid $5,500 to design the 
report, which interested residents can view online or pick 
up along with the glasses at the Bo Diddley Community 
Plaza informational kiosk.
The money and project descriptions — including the 
$1,684,016 spent on project vendors, many of them local 
— are hidden behind red polka dots and squiggly lines 
that disappear when viewed with the glasses. 
Hector Del Valle, the creative director at Liquid Cre-ative Studios, said the project was a first for him. 
“I’ve never really worked on an interactive print piece 
before,” he said. “None of us had done anything like 
this.”
The idea for the map came first as a way to uncover 
all the projects the Community Redevelopment Agency is working on. 
“The glasses go with the theme,” Del Valle said, add-
ing that, for the most part, people have enjoyed the re-port’s design. 
McCrate said the project was intended to get people 
interested in Gainesville’s local government and the progress of the agency’s many projects, which range from East Gainesville to University Heights.
“People were intrigued by it,” McCrate said. “Kids 
were putting on the glasses. It’s just a cool way to let peo-
ple know about projects happening in their backyards.”
She said another motivating factor for the map was to 
show the progress made on town projects that have been 
in the works for years. 
“Gainesville is working harder to become more citi-
zen-friendly,” she said. “This is just a way to showcase that.”
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org City report to be read in 3-D glasses
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY FRIENDS
Grace Wright, right, a 19-year-old UF mechanical engineering 
sophomore, assists Chris Garzon, an 18-year-old UF plant science freshman, kick-start his borrowed scooter on Turlington Plaza on Thursday afternoon. The pair eventually managed to start the scooter after Wright flipped a switch to the correct position.
It passed unanimously
CITY COMMISSIONFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Andrea Beniam
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is competing to sign up 
as many students as possible to 
save lives. 
The UF Athletic Training Pro-
gram is taking part in a challenge 
against other athletic programs 
to register people as potential bone marrow donors, said Patri-cia Tripp, the director and clini-cal education coordinator of the program. The other universities competing are Louisiana State University, the University of South Carolina and the Univer-
sity of Alabama. 
The program will host a donor 
registration event today from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m. on the front lawn of the inﬁ  rmary building The program wants to get as many people as possible to register for Be The Match Registry, which is operated by the National Marrow 
Donor Program. At the event, representatives 
from Be The Match and the ath-
letic program will be conducting 
cheek swabs to register people 
between 18 and 44 years of age. The individuals will then ﬁ  ll out paperwork, she said.
“If you’re a match, you 
will get a call and then you go through a blood transfusion and hopefully get to save a life,” Tripp said. 
Emma Popowski, a 19-year-
old nursing freshman, registered to be a bone marrow donor dur-ing Dance Marathon this year.
She said she registered be-
cause she doesn’t believe anyone should die as a result of someone else being scared to donate bone marrow.  
“I think it’s important for 
other people to give bone mar-row, because if they’re healthy, then they’re lucky to be healthy, so why not help someone else?” she said.  P rogram holds bone 
marrow donor sign-upsCAMPUS
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police say a suspect who tried to abduct 
children in Alachua County attempted an-
other kidnapping Wednesday in a different 
county.
At about 3:15 p.m. Wednesday in Union 
County, Florida, the suspect — described as a middle-aged man with a beard and a 
balding head — sat in the passenger seat 
of a dark-colored van and offered a ride 
home to at least one child, according to a press release issued Thursday by the Union County Sheriff’s Office.
The incident occurred in Lake Butler 
near the intersection of Northwest 158th Avenue and State Road 238, according to the release.
A woman drove the van, described by 
the Sheriff’s Office as an older-model ve-hicle, possibly with flames painted on the side, according to the release.
The child immediately left the area af-
ter the incident, and the suspects did, too.
Since mid-March, several reports of a 
man in High Springs, Alachua County, at-tempting to lure children into a dark-col-ored van have shaken the area.
In that time span, the suspect has asked at least five children if they needed a ride in the vehicle, according to press releases 
issued by the High Springs Police Depart-
ment.
The Alachua County Sheriff’s Office is 
currently working together with HSPD to 
find the suspects. 
@martindvassolo  
mvassolo@alligator.org Sheriff’s Office: Attempted child abductor targets Union County Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
PRACTICING HER PIROUETTE
Jennifer Klammer, a 19-year-old dance and journalism freshman, choreographs a dance for her Com-
position 2 ﬁ  nal project in the Nadine M. McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion on Thursday afternoon. 
It occurred in Lake ButlerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnWhat a week it’s been, readers. We’ve got presidential 
candidates throwing shade at one another, Gainesville resi-
dents yelling at Florida governors in Starbucks, Star Wars 
Easter eggs and secrets circling our social media — and oh, 
yes, ﬁ  nals week rapidly approaching to wreak havoc on our precious grades. But in the meantime, thank you, read-ers, for tuning into our vain attempt at making sense of the 
world, our long-winded banter, our latest segment of…
Darts & Laurels
By now, you’ve probably heard of the interview The 
New York Daily News had with Bernie Sanders. “Pretty 
close to a disaster,” read subsequent headlines. For many 
media outlets, this interview was the long-awaited, quintes-
sential “ah-hah, gotcha!” moment in which Sanders ﬁ  nally exposed himself as “all talk, no walk” on providing speciﬁ  c answers on how he’d actually break up the banks.
But if you take the time to closely read the transcript of 
this interview, you’ll quickly ﬁ  nd it was really The Daily News who didn’t have the facts together. In pressing Sand-ers on how exactly he’d break up the big banks, The Daily News brought up the Federal Reserve’s authority, to which 
Bernie responded with confusion.
And rightly so: The Fed has less to do with breaking up 
the banks than The Daily News suggested. Yet The Daily 
News persistently pressed Sanders with this notion and pro-
ceeded to run negative articles dismissing him as having his 
head in the clouds. The same thing happened on foreign policy: The Daily News asked Sanders how he felt on Presi-dent Obama’s removal of drone authority from the CIA, to which Sanders responded with confusion. Yeah, that’s be-
cause in June 2015, Obama actually let the CIA keep their 
authority on drones. And for some reason, The Daily News editorial board has been slow to clarify these mistakes.
Please, readers, before you base your judgments on this 
article or share it on Facebook, take a moment to realize how fabricated and slanted the interview was. So, a dart  
to The Daily News for their blatant attempt at “gotcha” 
journalism, and a laurel to those journalists who did their jobs and accurately reported on the interview, such as Huff-
ington Post’s Ryan Grim and The Young Turks.
Now, onto a real issue of utter controversy: the intersec-
tion of Museum Road and Reitz Union Drive. You all 
know it: those crosswalks right outside of the Reitz. This in-
tersection is where happiness goes to die, where cars go to 
sit still at 0 mph for what feels like forever during rush hour, where seas of pedestrians and speeding drivers collide. Kid-ding aside, cars sit awkwardly waiting for the crosswalk to be completely empty, while pedestrians stroll through with-
out regard for trafﬁ  c or surrounding drivers. We give a dart 
to this intersection and a laurel to those brave souls who 
eventually approve a streetlight permit there.
And lastly, we extend a laurel to “The Late Show with 
Stephen Colbert” for hosting Babymetal, a Japanese metal 
band, on the show Tuesday. 
Surely Colbert’s producers knew the thrashing drums 
and distorted guitar would be a little much for the show’s audience, so we commend their willingness to push the mu-
sical envelope of late-night television. If any of you have 
been dying to add new music to your Spotify mix, here’s the perfect band. What better to keep you awake during your all-nighters than a head-banging session at Marston 
Science Library?
The new-new left winged types of people
Two weeks ago, noted hacker and white na-
tionalist Andrew Auernheimer decided to access printers across the U.S. and churn out ﬂ  iers with the following message:
“White man ... are you sick and tired 
of THE JEWS destroying your country through MASS IMMIGRATION and DEGENERACY? Join us in the struggle for GLOBAL WHITE SUPREM-ACY.”
On the off chance anyone may have had trou-
ble identifying the political movement with the ﬁ  rmest stance against Jews, immigration and “degeneracy,” Auernheimer decorated his pamphlet with swastikas. I guess he really wanted to drive the point home.
It serves as propaganda, cheap intimidation and advertis-
ing for the Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi web publication that has endorsed GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump.
Auernheimer, who lives in a hole in the country of Georgia 
after serving hard time for hacking into AT&T Inc., targeted universities in particular. The Daily Stormer’s skinhead edi-tor, Andrew Anglin, praised the print job for “invading the safe spaces that these universities provide for effeminate men and feminists and minorities.” Clearly, these fascists see uni-
versities and students as their enemies.
Weirdly, I’d already seen Auernheimer and Adam Penen-
berg — a journalist and New York University professor —  
have a conversation on Twitter. In the same exchange during which Auernheimer said “Nuremberg laws are a good stan-dard,” he also said this: “Fascists don’t sit on their asses.” 
I ﬁ  nd this quite compelling. Yes, quite unlike fascists, the 
campus left does not obsess over cartoonish and borderline-homoerotic masculinity, nor does it belong to an atavistic cult 
of death. Could it be stronger? Absolutely. And, considering 
2016 as the year of fascism’s rebirth in the U.S. and abroad, it’s gonna have to get strong real fast.
Right-wing types of all kinds tend to look on the campus 
left with condescension and revulsion, masking what is really garden-variety fear. To them, we’re simultaneously limp, sob-bing, blue-haired blobs and an existential threat to white civi-lization. They fear us because they know our potential — we represent a body of educated, resourceful people with the passion and energy of youth. They mock us because we’ve become largely complacent and short-sighted, unwilling to engage politically be-yond our respective bubbles.
What happened? In 1968, we set off a wave 
of protest and insurrection which nearly undid Western society. Together with the trade unions, our colleagues in France nearly overthrew the Gaullist regime, scaring Charles de Gaulle out of the country. The response there, as well as here, 
was to restructure higher education and its administration to discourage future rebellion. The University of Paris, ground zero for the French protests of ’68, was split into 13 separate 
institutions. Spooked by student unrest, our beloved alma 
mater conﬁ  ned the college of liberal arts inside the monstros-ity that is Turlington Hall, deliberately opened in 1977 to stiﬂ  e student protest and agitation by a man who later went on to design prisons. The campus left didn’t disappear; it’s just been successfully hamstrung. Its main focus is diversifying the small portion of the population lucky enough to attend college; which is important and increasingly necessary work. But this activism rarely extends beyond campus and leaves 
every achievement up to the whims of bureaucrats who exist 
to conserve the administration’s authority.
The campus left’s success at ensuring people of all differ-
ent backgrounds and identities are welcome at universities is an admirable victory. But the campus left in its current form is not prepared to deal with fascists like Auernheimer. There’s a hefty difference between an over-entitled frat guy and some-one whose sweetest dreams are of the SS. Students used to be a serious political force; now, we petition diversity ofﬁ  cers 
to erase a Trump supporter’s sidewalk chalk for us. We must 
abandon the sentiment that the administration represents any kind of long-term ally. To compete with these reactionaries, we have to align ourselves with broader off-campus move-ments and take a real stand against the likes of Auernheimer and Donald Trump. We have to be politically engaged.  
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column appears on 
Fridays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Phi Mu
T ailgate Invitational 
April 9th, 3:00 P.M.
Hume Field
I went home recently for the 
weekend and had a grand 
time visiting hometown haunts and stufﬁ  ng my face 
with home-cooked food. As 
a college student ready to throw 
herself into the throes of ﬁ  nals 
week, there is nothing like a 
visit home to provide a perfect 
relaxation boost — as well as a motivation boost. When family 
members start tentatively asking about 
grades, and you remember how hard they might have worked to afford to give you 
this stellar college education and the abil-
ity to go for your dreams, I personally re-discover a great motivating force to set-
tling down in the library for a long haul 
of studying. 
But aside from that, I also relived a 
few childhood moments over my weekend 
home while cleaning and reorganizing my room. In the process, I unearthed a 
treasure trove of teenage Sally’s thoughts, 
emotions, trials and tribulations in my old 
diaries.
I read “Harriet the Spy” in middle 
school and was immediately inspired by 
Harriet’s extreme dedication to her note-
book. “Harriet The Spy” is about a girl who copes with a lot in middle school — 
friendship betrayal, family drama and the 
loss of a nanny who had been her con-
stant companion since infancy. For any-
one wanting to dive into some children’s 
lit that is a cut above the rest, I highly rec-ommend it. Let’s give a cheer for young 
adult literature!
I wanted to be like Harriet: a girl who 
writes anything and everything down in a 
notebook; a hidden window into her writ-ing soul. So, I started a diary. 
I kept up this diary pretty well through-
out middle school, when the clique-y 
friend drama was thick and juicy and I 
had just discovered that boys were, like, 
kind of a big deal. There was plenty of 
emotional material to scribble down and 
then mark very ﬁ  rmly in red pen as, “SE-
CRET. SALLY’S EYES ONLY. OR ELSE.” 
Diary-keeping was harder in high 
school, when I was trying to be “cool,” “hip” and “adult,” and suddenly my pur-
ple fur-lined tome bursting with pre-teen 
woes from middle school seemed very 
immature. In college, it is even harder to keep up the practice of record-
ing my daily activities and emo-
tional thoughts, even though, hopefully, there is more to talk 
about nowadays than whether my crush might have looked at 
me in gym class. I’ve had fam-
ily members who have system-
atically recorded their thoughts 
on every day of their adult life so far, which seems terribly im-
pressive. 
For a while in college, I thought that 
taking the time out of my day to write 
down my thoughts was selﬁ  sh. There is al-
ways schoolwork that needs doing, forms that need signing or Instagram posts that 
need liking. There is always an internship 
I should be applying for: How on earth 
can I justify writing about my day and my 
emotional thoughts to myself? Don’t I al-
ready know them? What’s the point?
But keeping a diary is about more than 
patting yourself on the back for keeping your life together every day. A diary is a 
place that is, traditionally at least, secret. 
No one is going to view your diary as a Snapchat story, and no one is going to 
like your diary on Twitter. In a world con-
stantly bombarded by people viewing and being part of other people’s lives through 
social media, a diary is a singular private 
entity. Even though that might make it 
boring at ﬁ  rst, it also lends a freedom to 
you, as its creator. 
It’s also nice to have a diary as a way 
to remember and record your thoughts and growth over the year. Look back on 
yourself in your memories, and things 
might be blurry, but with a diary, the act 
of self-reﬂ  ection and evaluation becomes second nature, and the past can be seen 
with more clarity. 
Many of the greatest writers of our time 
have been big diary-keepers, which also 
deﬁ  nitely makes me more excited to try 
my hand at it again, if I’m being honest. 
We all need a little time to relax and 
reﬂ  ect on ourselves if we want to stay 
sane, especially right before ﬁ  nals week. 
Perhaps a diary, now an uncommon form 
of expression, could be a perfect way to get started. 
Sally Greider is a UF English and pub-
lic relations junior. Her column usually 
appears on Wednesdays.Diary: forgotten form of expression?Column
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgPersonal health: the news 
topic that makes readers go, “Oh, I should start 
paying attention to that 
soon,” before moving 
on to read whatever Ann Coul-ter recently said about Hispanic 
people. But unlike Ms. Coul-
ter, disregarding uncomfortable health conditions does not make them go away.
Take sleep: According to the National 
Sleep Foundation, 45 percent of Ameri-cans reported that poor or insufﬁ  cient sleep had affected their daily activities at least once in the past week. However, the 
foundation also reports that, as a whole, 
American adults are actually getting the amount of sleep they need based on the national guidelines being an average of seven hours a night. What most afﬂ  icts 
American adults is quality of sleep.
Obligatorily scary health column fact: 
In a given year, one-third of Americans 
will experience insomnia. But don’t wor-
ry, only a quarter of those one third are af-
ﬂ  icted by what is called chronic insomnia. That’s one-twelfth of Americans — not a number to balk at.
In medicine, misconceptions and lack 
of information make up the fuel of health problems. Chronic insomnia is perhaps what we think of when insomnia is dis-cussed: a disease that keeps a person lying 
awake in bed for long hours, night after 
night for several months. In fact, the word insomnia refers to the complaint of being unable to fall asleep. In other words, in-somnia is a symptom — like an ache in 
your joints or a runny nose — not a dis-
ease itself.
This might seem like an esoteric medi-
cal point, but it’s important to recognize 
that, in the same way there isn’t only 
one reason why a person might have a runny nose, there isn’t only one reason why a person may have insomnia. This also means insomnia could point to much 
deeper medical or psychiatric problems.
But here it is important to describe the 
two types of insomnia: acute, or short-
term — sleeplessness lasting for a few days or few weeks at most — and chronic, or long-term insomnia — sleeplessness lasting for sev-
eral months. The ﬁ  rst can be re-
solved fairly easily with a simple treatment plan. For example, in the TV show “The Newsroom,” 
Jeff Daniels’ character is told 
his insomnia is caused by the naturally-occurring sleep-inhibi-
tors found in his favorite midnight snack, bacon-and-egg sandwiches, and he should 
stop eating them at night. This doesn’t 
mean acute insomnia shouldn’t be looked at seriously — the 45 percent of Ameri-cans who reported bad sleep could not all 
have had chronic insomnia — only that it 
does not underlay deeper medical condi-tions. Individuals with chronic insomnia, however, need to speak with a profes-sional — whether a doctor, a physiatrist, 
a physician’s assistant or a nurse practi-
tioner — for at least twenty minutes to ac-cess the causes of the condition. Chronic insomnia, ironically enough, is chronically 
underevaluated; too many patients don’t 
receive a diagnosis from a professional, so it is important to press if needed.
This is all nice and upsetting, but what 
can you do as a reader? Well, you may 
believe you suffer from acute or chronic 
insomnia, in which case, seek out a pro-fessional opinion. And if a loved one does, urge them to. Americans are individualis-
tic to a fault; the idea of speaking openly 
with a stranger, even a health profession-al, feels almost immoral. Yet the only way to receive adequate treatment is through a frank discussion of your health with an 
expert. And in the case that you simply 
cannot feel comfortable with a certain health professional, seek out another if this is available to you. Within UF there 
are resources from the Student Health 
Care Center to the Counseling and Well-ness Center to UF Health Shands Hospital, for example.
But most importantly, you are your 
foremost healthcare professional. If you sense something is wrong, investigate.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.A few fun facts about insomniaColumn
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
Photos by Andres Leiva
Alligator Staff Photographer
LEFT:
Oriana Fermin, a 21-year-old 
UF philosophy junior, performs alongside Sabor Latino Dance T eam on Norman Field on Thursday evening.
FAR LEFT:
Dani Jaffe, a 19-year-old UF freshman on a pre-nursing track, and Zeni Quinn, a 19-year-old UF applied physiology and kine-siology freshman, jump around in a bounce house on Norman Field during St. Baldrick’s 2016 on Thursday.
Shave the date
Noah MacGinnis, a 19-year-old UF political science freshman and member of the Freshman Leadership Council, sings an original song titled “Cup of Life” on Norman Field during St. Baldrick’s 2016 on Thursday.FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
 
Faith Egbunu can’t watch her son 
play basketball. 
ESPN is hard to come by in Ni-
geria.
Instead, she looks up John’s stats 
and scores online and talks about 
his performances with him over the phone.
Florida’s 6-foot-11 center has not 
returned home to Nigeria since mov-ing to the United States in 2011 to pursue basketball. He sees his moth-er only when they talk on FaceTime.
John has been on the move since 
first landing in the U.S. when he was 15 years old, traveling between three different states on his basketball journey. Now, the redshirt sopho-more finds himself in Gainesville having finished his first full season at UF, averaging 11.5 points and 6.5 rebounds per game. 
After moving from state to state 
and traveling across continents to pursue his dreams, he’s finally found a place to settle.
“I want to stay here until when 
God says it’s time for me to leave or go somewhere or do something dif-ferent,” he said.
•   •   •
When John stepped off the plane 
after crossing the Atlantic Ocean, he was already running late to class.
“We went to the airport, met him, 
we collected his stuff and he went to 
school,” said Millicent Seriki, John’s 
aunt.
John, now 21, moved to the U.S. 
from Bauchi, Nigeria, but is original-ly from the state of Kogi. 
He grew up playing a lot of soc-
cer, Seriki said, and didn’t begin playing basketball until five months before he arrived in the U.S. “I’m quick to learn,” Egbunu 
said. “Especially when I’m really into something or I really want to be good at something.”
In many ways, living in Nigeria 
was simpler than living in the United States.
But in other ways, it’s similar, 
John said.
Back home, John would wake 
up early for school, deal with strict teachers and hang out with friends — many of the same things he does in Gainesville.
And while he left much of his life 
in Nigeria, he still has family nearby.
“I was excited, I mean, having 
one of my ancestor’s kids come over,” Seriki said. “I have one bio-logical daughter, so when he came, he was my son coming home.”
Seriki, who lives in suburban At-
lanta, moved to the U.S. from Nige-
ria in 2000. 
Her daughter Tobi, John’s cousin 
of about the same age, studies at the 
University of South Florida. The two were instrumental in John’s adjust-ment to life in a new country and the main reason why John’s mother was OK with him leaving home.
“They knew my aunt was gonna 
watch over me,” Egbunu said. “So they weren’t really like freaking out about that.”
When Seriki met John at the air-
port on his first day in the United States, John was on his way to Dur-ham, North Carolina, to begin school and his basketball career. In his ju-nior year, John moved to Atlanta 
to live with his aunt and attended 
Eagle’s Landing High School — he said the basketball program at his school in North Carolina was being closed down. 
But soon, he was on the move 
again. 
John transferred to Fort Walton Beach High School in northwest Florida. 
“I’ve just got to understand that 
everything is a process and every-body has a different path in life and 
that’s kind of how I always looked at 
it,” John said.
While many aspects of life in 
America were similar to those of back home, the culture change was still a difficult adjustment.
In one instance, John’s friend 
asked to use his cellphone, making international calls and racking up an 
expensive phone bill.
“In Nigeria, we are kind of, like, 
very generous. You can just give 
somebody your stuff to use,” Seriki said. “...There were so many things that you have to just let him know and let him see that here it’s not done the way it’s done back home.” 
With his mother back in Nigeria, 
John maintains a strong bond with Seriki. She and Tobi attend as many of John’s home games as possible.
“I call him my son because that’s 
what he is,” Seriki said. “I’ve talked to him like four times today. … I talk to him every night.”
•   •   •
When John started playing bas-
ketball in Nigeria, he was far from the best player on the court.
“There were people who were 
way bigger than me,” the 255-pound-
er said. 
Now, he’s the most imposing 
force on one of college basketball’s premier Division I teams. 
“He’s a man-child. He gets the 
ball, it’s going in,” sophomore Devin 
Robinson said of Egbunu. “He’s dunking everything. He’s rebound-ing. He’s a man.”
John’s size is striking. His large frame gives him the look 
of a natural center, but being so new to the game, Egbunu is still working on matching his skillset to his size. He said high school basketball was an exciting, rewarding experience, but that his size played a bigger fac-tor on the court than anything else.
“(It) really helped me, kind of 
helped cover for a lot of my flaws or a lot of areas that I needed to get bet-ter at,” Egbunu said.
After high school, John commit-
ted to play basketball at the Univer-sity of South Florida.
In his freshman season at USF, 
John averaged 6.2 rebounds per 
game — most among freshmen in 
the American Athletic Conference — along with 7.4 points per game. His 198 rebounds were the most ever by a freshman at USF, and he was named to the AAC All-Rookie Team.
Then, in 2014, John was on the 
move again.
This time, he transferred to Flor-
ida.
“He’s been through the wringer,” 
UF coach Mike White said. “I think it’s kind of stunted his growth a little bit in that he’s not only new to the game, but he’s new to the game and he’s had all these different ways of it being taught to him and different philosophies and schemes. I think 
he’s just now settling in for the first 
time.”
After sitting out his first year at 
Florida due to NCAA transfer rules, John’s first season as a Gator was impressive.  Among UF players who had at least 100 shot attempts, Eg-bunu led the team in field-goal per-centage (59.1) and blocks (48) while 
slamming down a school-record 75 
dunks. 
John’s production this season 
was encouraging, especially for a player as raw and early in the devel-opment process as he was. 
His season came to an end before Florida’s did, however, when a torn ligament in his right thumb forced him to undergo surgery on March 17 after the Gators’ first-round National Invitation Tournament win against North Florida.
Now, John has all summer to 
heal, train and come back in the fall even better than he was. After having moved around from school to school and coach to coach throughout high school and early in his college career, John hopes his time at Florida will el-evate his game to a new level.
“It’s going to be a while before he 
is back on the floor at full speed, but I think he understands that he’s got a chance to be one of the better big guys in this league and have a really big junior year,” White said. “And that’s certainly our expectation of him.” 
•   •   •
John is still relatively new to the 
game of basketball. He’s still learn-ing the game while also settling into a new home. 
“I think you’ve got to be pretty 
dedicated and you’ve got to be ma-ture beyond your years to leave your family a world away to come enroll in high school in America,” White said of Egbunu.
It’s been an eventful five years 
for John since moving to the United States. 
But three different high schools in 
three different states and two colleg-
es later, the redshirt sophomore has 
found a new home. 
 “Right now, I’m not focused on 
doing anything but staying here and getting better and working on my game and enjoying my teammates,” Egbunu said. 
“Gainesville is a fun place to be.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org
Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Above, John Egbunu (15) high-fives teammates during Florida’s 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in 
the O’Connell Center. T o the right, Egbunu dunks the ball during Florida’s 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O’Connell Center.
MEN’S BASKETBALL
Cross-Continental: Far from family, John Egbunu finds homeFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
4-20-15-72-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    5-10-16-21-2
Blocks From UF - 1st Mo Free!
3/1, 4/2 & 5/3. From $1400/mo
Reserved parking. Pet friendly
352-359-5584    dalyproperties.com    4-20-
16-13-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Home for the Outdoor Enthusiast!
10 min drive from UF, 3/2, 1891 sf, $235,000, 
photos can be seen at http://9215cr2082.
canbyours.com/. Call Mike, 352,665-0073   
4-13-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
Ready to Move in!Mobile Home for Sale!!Location Oak Park Village.2b/1ba, dishwasher, w/d, a/c, covered porch, new paint & floor!Call to make an appointment352-538-0303    4-8-16-3-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!! Sell Your Used or Damaged 2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free Towing. Same Day Pick-Up And Pay Available: Call1-888-689-8647    4-8-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD student or Veteran student, with several years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking & meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@gmail.com. Background check required, must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Prep Cook / DishwasherFull-time for large sorority house. Experience is a plus, but will train the right individual. $9.00/hr. to start with the raise after proba -
tion period. Must be able to start Aug. 8, hours M-F 11 to 7. Background check re-quired. Email resume and cover letter to frat-mgmt@gmail.com.    4-12-16-10-14
Chef/Cook –Begin 8/15/16 - 1 person kitchen/ must be able to order food in quantities needed, plan menus, prepare and cook lunch and dinner from scratch for average 80 per day. Manage the kitchen from A to Z. Need to have posi-tive attitude, imagination, and creativity, not stubborn/flexible, Safeserv Certified/will pay for class and test if needed. Background check, alcohol, drug, health checks will be run. Email resume or letter as to experience with salary history. No salary history = no call back. Starting salary $500 per wk. frat-mgmt@gmail.com    4-12-16-10-14Front Office Assistant for busy Dermatology practice in Gainesville. 3-4 days/week.  Duties include scheduling appointments, checking patients in and out, coding and posting charges, collecting payments, an-swering phones and other duties.  Looking for a professional individual with good com-puter and interpersonal skills. Experience in a medical office desired, but willing to train motivated individual. Ideal position for recent graduate or student interested in healthcare business career.  Salary with benefits avail -
able. Send cover letter and resume to daop -
portunity@aol.com    4-11-16-5-14
PART TIME BABYSITTER WANTED FOR SUMMER, can continue in fall if interested. For kids ages 7-13. $12/hr.Experience required. Email resume andreferences to rosenson@ufl.edu.    4-11-16-3-14
UF Health Valet Service--HPM ParkingMake money while running!Tip based - $8 to $12 per hour352-594-6231      4-8-2-14Oak Hall School is hiring Summer Day Camp Counselors. Visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment for details and application information. Group interview on 4/16 at 9 AM.    4-15-16-12-14
Master Builder CampIs Hiring For The Summer!Science/Design/Arts/Tech play-based learn -
ing day camp seeking dynamic and energet -
ic counselors to join our team. For more info: www.masterbuildercamp.com    4-8-5-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000     4-8-5-14
Want to Earn Some Extra $$$
Kelly Services is looking for individuals to 
work a 10 day project April 19-28th as couri -
ers/messengers in a hospital setting. Day, 
Evening and Overnight shifts are available 
starting at $10/HR. Apply online at http://qrs.
ly/gt52jb2 or call 352-335-7800 TODAY!   
 4-13-7-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Camp Counselor. Looking to provide a safe, 
nurturing, and fun environment for girls? Ideal applicants are available M-F, have large group experience and a willingness to grow in an active environment. Visit www.girlsplace.net to apply.       4-14-16-5-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Entry Level Heavy Equipment Operator Career! Get Trained -Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators, Immediate Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits.  National Average $18.00-$22.00                                   1-866-362-6497    4-8-1-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Work at One of the Top
25 Small Companies in
An opportunity to help others
unleash their fullest potential
with a GHF membership.
Full job description at ghfc.com/application
Now Hiring
Full-time, Part-time Employment & Internships
4-11-16-2-14
ATTN: Drivers-$2k Sign-On BonusLove Your Job $60k+ job!We Put Drivers First! Pet & RiderAvg $1200 Weekly aCDL-A Req - (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com        4-8-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers -Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -Get certified in just 12 weeks with FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649.    4-8-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305    4-8-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 ConnectionsFlorida coach Bryan Shelton 
and the men's tennis team face Georgia on the road tonight.Read the story on pg. 16.By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Eddy Pineiro has never kicked a ﬁ  eld goal 
in a football game. 
But by the end of tonight, he hopes to put at 
least one through the uprights in The Swamp.
“We’ve got to see Eddy kick in front of 
people and not on his YouTube,” coach Jim 
McElwain said. “This is kind of an important deal there.”
Pineiro has been recorded hitting ﬁ  eld goals 
upwards of 70 yards, which elevated him to the ranking of top junior college kicker in the 
country despite his lack of  experience. 
But that lack of experience didn’t stop 
McElwain from paying the then-Alabama com-
mit a visit and pursuing him harder than any other kicker he’s ever recruited. And if Pine-rio's progress in Spring practice is any indica-tion, McElwain's diligence could soon pay off. 
“I’ve had guys that have been to the Pro 
Bowl, I’ve had guys that have won the Lou 
Groza award,” special teams coordinator Greg 
Nord said. “(Eddy) responds like those guys, not the bad ones.”
But the kicking game wasn’t the only prob-
lem last season. UF's offense was anemic at times, especially in the season’s last three games, when Florida was outscored 97-24. But when tits offense clicked, they hinged largely on players like running back Kelvin Taylor, 
quarterback Treon Harris and receiver Antonio 
Callaway. 
With all three players gone for spring — 
Taylor to the NFL Draft, Harris and Callaway to university suspensions — McElwain has had to look for new weapons this spring.
And on offense, that starts with a new crop 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF lacrosse preparing for challenge against Georgetown
The Florida lacrosse team will play Georgetown on Saturday on the road, 
its first match away from Gainesville since March 6. Read the story online at 
alligator.org/sports.Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio throws a pass during Spring practice at the Sanders Practice Fields. Del Rio and Florida's other three quarterbacks 
will all have a chance to prove why they deserve the starting job in tonight's Orange and Blue Debut at 7. 
TORRES TELLS ITGators looking for answers heading into spring game
Jackson Kowar came into the 
top of the seventh inning with a 4-0 lead in Tuesday’s game against Jacksonville.
The Gators were cruis-
ing, and coach Kevin O’Sullivan wanted to get his freshman some much-needed work out of the bull-pen. 
But Kowar ran into trouble. He allowed one run in just two-
thirds of an inning, leaving the bases loaded before O’Sullivan made his second trip of the inning 
to talk with Kowar on the mound.
He signaled for another righty. 
Dane Dunning made the trip 
from Florida’s bullpen and onto the mound to face Parker Perez. 
The pressure was on.One bad pitch and Jacksonville 
could’ve taken the lead.
But Dunning didn’t fold under 
the pressure. He threw one pitch and forced Perez to ground into a ﬁ  elder’s choice to end the Dol-phins’ threat. 
“He’s feeling very conﬁ  -
dent where he’s at right now,” O’Sullivan said after the game on Tuesday. “And you can tell. 
Bases loaded ﬁ  rst pitch, he throws 
a ground ball. He’s not trying to miss bats. He’s going right at hit-ters. He’s in a good place right now.” Dunning has quickly become a 
weapon for the Gators. His versa-tility is unmatched by anyone else on the pitching staff.
After starting four games be-
fore Southeastern Conference play began, the Fleming Island native knew his starts would be at a pre-mium with three potential ﬁ  rst-round picks in Florida’s rotation. 
So with limited options and 
opportunities, he made the ulti-mate team sacriﬁ  ce for a pitcher. Dunning met with O’Sullivan and 
made his intentions to move to the 
bullpen known. 
O’Sullivan agreed, and it’s paid 
off. 
Dunning has made four appear-
ances out of the bullpen in SEC play and has excelled in his new role. He’s tossed nine innings, Dane Dunning is the MVP of UF's pitching staﬀ  
LORENZ AND BARNHILL 
ARE ON PACE TO BREAK 
MULTIPLE UF RECORDS. 
By Brian Lee
Sports Writer 
As the Florida softball team 
crosses into the back half of its 
Southeastern Conference sched-
ule, a pair of freshmen are prov-
ing their worth as major con-tributors. 
Outﬁ  elder Amanda Lorenz 
and pitcher Kelly Barnhill have made considerable contribu-tions to the Gators’ success this season, a trend they will look to continue as No. 2 Florida (35-3, 
9-3 SEC) travels to Mississippi (28-10, 4-5 SEC) for a weekend series that begins tonight at 7. 
Both have made an immedi-
ate impact. 
Both are conﬁ  dent beyond 
their years. 
Both are chasing history. 
If Lorenz’s hitting statistics 
endure, she will break several Florida freshman hitting re-
cords. 
Among players with at least 
80 at-bats, her .411 batting av-
erage is the highest on the team and well ahead of the freshman-
record .378 mark set by Kelsey 
Stewart in 2013. 
And with a team-leading on-
base percentage of .536, Lorenz Freshmen stepping 
up for Florida softball
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15is also on pace to equal the team 
record — not just for freshmen, but for all players, set by Bailey 
Castro last year. 
With 10 doubles and 30 walks 
to compliment 29 RBIs, Lorenz’s 
emergence as a consistent run 
producer has been a welcome 
boost for the Gators, especially since senior Kelsey Stewart is experiencing her worst offensive season in nearly every statisti-
cal category since her freshman 
year. 
Despite only hitting leadoff in 
high school, Lorenz has adjusted 
well to her spot in the middle of 
the Gators’ lineup. 
“Wherever (coach Walton) 
thinks is best, I’ll hit, and just try and do what’s best for the team” 
Lorenz said. 
Kelly Barnhill is also having a 
solid rookie campaign. She's the 
only Florida pitcher this season who has not lost, compiling a 13-0 record and 1.36 ERA.  
Despite her status as the 
youngest pitcher on the Gators’ 
staff, Barnhill has allowed just 
37 hits and struck out 119 batters in 77 innings, both team bests. As a result, she ranks fourth in 
the nation in strikeouts per game 
(10.7). Additionally, opponents are only hitting .139 against her.
If the season concluded today, 
Barnhill would set the freshman 
ERA record and have the lowest-
allowed batting average in pro-gram history. 
“She came from high school 
and she struck pretty much ev-ery batter out that she’s faced,” junior pitcher Delanie Gourley said. 
“She’s made some really 
clutch pitches, had really great games for us, and it’s going to be a good season with her.” 
@brianlee_17 
blee@alligator.orgstruck out nine batters, allowed two runs and 
scattered ﬁ  ve hits. Dunning threw three in-
nings against Texas A&M on Saturday, pick-ing up his second save of the season and his ﬁ  rst in conference play.
“He’s been phenomenal,” junior right-
hander Logan Shore said. “He’s come out of the pen and done a great job through the last few weeks.” 
O’Sullivan is a situational-management 
mastermind. Throwing out Dunning to start during the midweek series was all a part of his plan. Florida is going to go deep into the postseason, and giving Dunning starting ex-perience this year bodes well for the Gators. 
“I think Sully was just trying to get him 
a few starts in there if he does need to start down the road when we get to Super Region-als or the World Series, or something happens 
with one of our starters," Shore said.
With No. 1 Florida (28-3, 7-2 SEC) welcom-
ing No. 5 Mississippi State (21-8-1, 6-3 SEC) 
this afternoon at 5:30 to start a three-game series, O’Sullivan has three chances to throw out the MVP of the Gators’ pitching staff.
And it’s not Shore, Alex Faedo, A.J. Puk or 
Shaun Anderson.
It’s Dane Dunning.
Luis Torres is the alligatorSports online editor. 
Contact him at ltorres@alligator.org and follow 
him on Twitter @LFTorresIIIFRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
COLUMN,  from pg 14
SOFTBALL,  from pg 14Lorenz has recorded 10 doubles and 29 RBIs this seasonof quarterbacks. 
Redshirt sophomore Luke Del Rio 
has a “leg up” according to McEl-wain, but he faces plenty of competi-tion. Joining him are true freshmen 
Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask — the 
former a four-star passer who ﬂ  ipped from LSU to Florida and the latter a backup in high school — along with graduate transfer Austin Appleby, who said he expects to compete for playing time.
But regardless of who UF's signal 
caller is, the offensive line will need 
to be better for the quarterbacks to 
be productive. Last season, Florida allowed more sacks than any other FBS school.
“Most of them that we gave up 
weren’t really because we wanted to,” offensive line coach Mike Sum-mers said.
“What we have to do is be in a 
better position to handle what hap-pened to us. We need to be better ﬁ  nishers. And we just need to be bet-ter pass protectors.”
That won’t be easy tonight 
against Florida’s defensive front. 
“D-line is probably our deepest 
group,” cornerback Jalen Tabor said. 
“If they come to play, we… can hold 
people under 10 points no matter who we play.”
But while the defensive line has 
depth, it lacks proven playmakers. Last season’s sack leaders — Jona-than Bullard and Alex McCalister 
— are gone, and while the talent to 
replace them is there, who takes the next step remains to be seen. 
Whether it’s who steps up on 
defense, which quarterback stands out, who can ﬁ  ll the explosive void left by Callaway or whether Pineiro can put the ball through the up-rights, plenty of questions surround 
tonight’s game. 
And McElwain sounded excited 
about answering them. 
“I would just say this... we’ve got 
some guys that are able to ﬁ  nish,” 
McElwain said, “and that’s good.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 14UF 's o-line 
allowed 45 sacks in 2015
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dane Dunning pitches during Florida's 7-2 win over Jacksonville on Tuesday at 
McKethan Stadium. 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Lorenz hits a ball during UF's 2-1 loss to Alabama on April 1 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
$5 off
$30 purchase
adamsribco.comor352-373-8882
352-727-40052109 NW 13th St.
1515 SW 13th St.
25$ off 
your activation fee
Visit Cricket Wireless at:
3558 SW Archer Rd,
Gainesville FL
When you bring this
coupon in 
*on qualifying plans*
16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s tennis team 
has made it clear that one of its top 
priorities is to win the Southeastern 
Conference regular-season title.
When the No. 14 Gators (12-5, 
7-1 SEC) take on No. 7 Georgia (14-
3, 8-0 SEC) tonight at 5 in Athens, 
those championship aspirations 
will be put to the test.
With Georgia currently holding 
a one-match advantage over Flori-
da for ﬁ  rst place in the SEC, a vic-
tory for the Gators tonight would 
give them a share of the lead in the standings with three matches left on the schedule. A loss to UGA, 
however, would most likely hand 
the SEC crown over to the Bull-
dogs.
“We’ve got to win on Friday 
night, and our guys know it,” 
coach Bryan Shelton said. “Our 
back is up against the wall. (Geor-
gia is) undefeated right now in the 
league. We’ve got a loss. Our guys 
will be ready to play.”
Florida enters tonight’s match 
coming off its ﬁ  rst home loss of the 
spring, a 5-2 defeat at the hands of 
defending national champion Vir-
ginia on Wednesday.
Despite starting off with a win in doubles, the Gators struggled in 
singles play against the Cavaliers, losing ﬁ  ve out of six matches for the ﬁ  rst time this year.
“Where we ran into a little bit of trouble (was) ﬁ  nishing out some 
sets,” Shelton said. “We were up 
breaks in different matches … so 
we had opportunities to put some 
ﬁ  rst sets on the board, and we didn’t get too many of them.”
UF will need to perform better tonight in singles competition, as 
Georgia features two nationally-
ranked top-40 players in senior 
Austin Smith and sophomore 
Wayne Montgomery. 
Smith played a large role in the 
Bulldogs’ 4-1 victory over Florida last season, defeating then-soph-
omore Maxx Lipman 6-1, 6-4 in 
straight sets.
In doubles, UGA boasts the 
No. 4-ranked duo in the country in Smith and senior Ben Wagland. 
The tandem has been as tough to 
beat as any doubles pair in the 
NCAA this season, sporting an 11-3 
record including wins in eight of their past 10 matches.
On the other side of the net, one 
player to keep an eye on for Flor-ida is freshman McClain Kessler, who didn’t appear to be 100-per-cent healthy against Virginia on Wednesday.
After coming up hobbled in the 
middle of singles play, Kessler was frequently worked on by a team trainer during breaks for the dura-tion of his match. 
Kessler has been crucial to the 
Gators’ success this season, going 10-5 in singles while also serving as an emotional catalyst for his teammates. If the ﬁ  rst-year player from Calhoun, Georgia, is unable to go tonight, his absence will be felt.
“We’ll assess that and let the 
doctors look at him and ﬁ  gure out where he’s at,” Shelton said. “But he’s a ﬁ  ghter, and we know he’ll be back strong.”
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida set to face Georgia with SEC championship implications
UGA beat UF last season
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Coach Bryan Shelton (right) congratulates McClain Kessler during Florida’s 6-1 win over Troy on Feb. 
17 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
