We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 36 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
Chris Chiozza, UF to play road-
heavy schedule
But the Florida basketball team is embracing 
the challenge, pg. 13
State voter registration deadline extended
Residents can register to vote until Wednesday, pg. 3
Tutoring service hiring UF students
Students can set their own rates and schedules, pg. 5Crowning the Homecoming court
See the photo story, pg. 8-9
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Aqueela Khuddus refused to say 
Donald Trump’s name Monday 
night, insisting she wanted to keep her mouth clean.
The 63-year-old Indian immi-
grant spoke to a crowd of students and residents during a rally held near Library West, protesting the rhetoric of the Republican presiden-tial candidate.
Surrounded by antifascism and 
pro-refugee signs, Khuddus told the story of moving to America from India in 1969 — to a country that 
accepted and loved without ques-
tioning.
“That was the America I came 
to, and that is the America I want to give to my grandchildren,” said Khuddus, a Muslim-American. “This is the best country in the world. We cannot let the devil take over.”
At the rally, organized by 
Gainesville Antifascists, about 30 protesters stood in a semi-circle passing out ﬂ  iers, waving signs and chanting. 
“No Trump, no KKK, no fascist 
USA,” they yelled under the setting sun.
At 6:30 p.m., ﬁ  ve people took 
turns speaking to the group about white supremacy, fascism and why Trump should not be elected presi-dent.
James Schmidt, a member of 
Gainesville Antifascists, said in election years, college students are notoriously apolitical, showing no interest in voting or in analyzing ei-ther party’s stances.
“We wanted to agitate students 
out of that mindset since this is such an important election,” the 46-year-old said. “And not all students are like that, so we wanted the activists to come ﬁ  nd us.”
In organizing the rally, he said the group contacted local progres-sive, feminist and Muslim groups.
He said they chose to meet on 
the Plaza of the Americas on UF’s campus because it was established as a free-speech zone.
“We wanted to hold it in a free, 
open space where students could ﬁ  nd us,” he said.
As the group chanted and speak-
ers took turns teaching people about the cause, students on their way to and from the library stopped to lis-ten, jeer and take photos.
A UF Republican student, who 
wished to remain anonymous, stood 
in the breezeway as the group’s 
loud cheers echoed around him.
“I saw the circus was in town, 
so I decided to stop,” the electrical engineering junior said. 
Originally from Finland, he said 
that in Europe, political activists commonly hold rallies and protest the government. Although the U.S. 
is usually more tame, Trump’s po-
larizing presidential race against Democratic candidate Hillary Clin-ton has been both entertaining and scary, he said.
“The scariest part is going into 
the job market under one of these two people,” he said. “The far left and the far right are a lot more simi-
lar than they think.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org ‘We cannot let the devil take over’: Students, residents protest  Trump
THE SEC IS TRYING TO RESCHEDULE IT.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
A few seconds earlier, there was a roof.
After crashing through a brick fence, a tree fell 
through the room where Tyler Jordan’s family was sit-ting during Hurricane Matthew.
The UF offensive lineman was supposed to play a 
football game the next day. But after hearing how his 
family narrowly escaped disaster, he understood why 
there wouldn’t be one.
“Nineteen people died; 2.5 million were affected,” 
Jordan said Monday. “Some of these people are saying that we dodged the game. That’s not true.”
On Thursday, the Southeastern Conference post-
poned UF’s annual game against Louisiana State Univer-sity because of Hurricane Matthew. No rescheduled date has been announced, and both teams have been working 
with the league to ﬁ  nd a solution.
And while UF football coach Jim McElwain said the school is doing everything it can to ensure the game 
will be played, UF saw no shortage of backlash over the weekend.
National media members criticized the decision on 
Twitter, and UF football players vented their anger at Fox Sports writer Clay Travis, who said Friday that the 4-1 
Gators were scared to play the 3-2 Tigers.
“I thought it was extremely unprofessional, to be 
honest,” quarterback Luke Del Rio said. “That’s all I’m gonna say about that.”
Coach Jim McElwain had stronger words.
“Obviously, they don’t know me. They don’t know 
the Florida Gators. They don’t know our players,” McEl-wain said. “How anybody could even think that way is beyond me.”
Fans of both UF and LSU questioned the decision on 
social media after hearing from LSU’s Athletic Director Joe Alleva. After the decision to postpone the game was 
made Thursday, Alleva said LSU was prepared to play 
under any scenario.
“We were willing to go there,” Alleva said. “We had  UF players, coaches face backlash 
after postponed football game 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain speaks during a press conference on Aug. 3. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Indian-American immigrant Aqueela Khuddus, 63, explains to a group of about 30 people how 
welcoming Americans were when she emigrated to the U.S. about 50 years ago. The director of a nonproﬁ  t organization, the Khadija Foundation, was one of ﬁ  ve speakers at the Rally Against Fascism and Xenophobia held on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday night.
SEE HURRICANE,  PAGE 16Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free English classes and citizen-
ship classes
The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English classes 
Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Alachua County Library Millhopper 
Branch. Anyone looking to 
improve their conversational 
English can attend. The league 
is also offering free citizenship 
classes every Thursday until Oct. 20 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the library, during which at-tendees can learn about the 
process of citizenship. For more 
information visit latinawomens-league.org.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters meets today at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, lo-cated at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, 
go to talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org or the Talking Gators page on Facebook. “The mis-sion of Toastmasters is to pro-vide a supportive and positive 
learning experience in which 
members are empowered to de-velop communication and lead-ership skills, resulting in greater 
self-confidence and personal 
growth.”
National Fossil Day at the 
Florida Museum of Natural 
History
Celebrate National Fossil Day and Earth Science Week with the Florida Museum of Natural 
History on Wednesday from 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m. Enjoy docent-led tours of the “Florida Fossils: 
Evolution of Life and Land” ex-
hibit, and experience hands-on exploration at the Discovery Cart. For more information visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/
fossil-day or call 352-846-2000.
What's your #relationshipgoal?
As part of its “So Many Ways” October-advocacy campaign, 
Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell will host the #RelationshipGoals Healthy Relationship Fair on 
Thursday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
on the Plaza of the Americas. UF students can earn a custom tie-dyed T-shirt by visiting activ-
ity booths set up by UF student 
organizations and departments, all designed to increase knowl-edge and skills about healthy relationships. Join them for in-formation and fun! For more 
information and opportunities 
to get involved, please visit ga-torwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/programs/strive and check out the “So Many Ways” advocacy calen-
dar.
Pop-Up Culture at UF
Did you know that October is National Arts and Humanities 
Month? To celebrate, UF is host-ing Pop-Up Culture on the Plaza of the Americas on Thursday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Join 
them for a variety of activities 
that will celebrate the arts and humanities at UF. From musi-cal performances to live debates 
and dancing to opportunities to 
paint, there’s something for ev-eryone. To learn more visit arts.ufl.edu/ahmonth.
Author to discuss Mobile 
Memorials as evidence of a shift in grieving practicesProfessor Candi Cann from 
Baylor University is giving a 
free lecture Oct. 20 at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. In this lecture, Cann will show how the marginalization of grief 
in contemporary American cul-
ture has made portable forms of public mourning more wide-spread. These include memorial 
tattoos, car decals and social 
media shrines honoring the dead. For more information visit humanities.ufl.edu.
Reitz Union Game Room table 
tennis tournamentTable tennis has the greatest number of participants out of 
any sport, with over 40 million 
competitive players around the globe. If you want to see how you stack up, you can try your hand at winning a real tourna-
ment right here in the Reitz 
Union Game Room. The table tennis tournament is Oct. 22 at 12:30 p.m. The Game Room will 
be hosting singles matches for 
both men’s and women’s brack-ets for a $5 entry fee per partici-pant. Please note, only UF stu-dents with a valid Gator 1 Card 
will be allowed to enter. The 
winner will be determined in an 11-point game, best of three, double elimination. Register 
with the Game Room before 5 
p.m. Oct. 21. Stop by for more information or see the Facebook event page at bit.ly/2e8GWjm.
GLAM Craft Show accepting ap-
plicationsGainesville’s largest indie craft show is accepting applications for its Dec. 4 event. Artists and crafters who make unique, gift-
able goods are encouraged to 
apply. The application deadline is Oct. 23. Apply online at glam-craftshow.com/apply.
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival will take place Oct. 29 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 
Oct. 30 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
There will be food, entertain-ment and more than 200 ven-dors selling arts and crafts. On 
Oct. 30, there will be an auction 
of donated items from vendors from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. For more information email micafest@micanopyfallfestival.org or call 
352-466-7026.
Apply Now for 2017-18 Financial 
Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a 2017-18 FAFSA now. UF’s “On-Time” deadline to receive the 
results of your 2017-18 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is Dec. 15. Apply well before then to ensure that the federal pro-cessor has time to analyze and 
send the results of your FAFSA 
to UF’s Office for Student Financial Affairs.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the 
paper.
HIGH  78° LOW  64°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 36
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.
The Associated Press 
A federal judge has issued a 
one-day extension to Florida’s vot-
er registration deadline and will hear arguments on a longer exten-sion in a Wednesday hearing.
The order from District Judge 
Mark Walker is at least a partial victory for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
The initial registration deadline 
was Tuesday, but Florida Demo-crats asked the court to extend the deadline. They argued that would-be voters deserved more time after 
Republican Gov. Rick Scott urged 
1.5 million Florida residents to evacuate last week as Hurricane Matthew approached the U.S. coastline.
Clinton’s campaign supported 
the lawsuit.
Aides to Clinton and Republi-
can Donald Trump acknowledge they missed several days of voter outreach.
The judge’s order extends the 
deadline through 5 p.m. Wednes-day. He will hear arguments ear-lier in the day on a longer exten-sion.
Clinton is slated for a Tuesday 
event in Miami. Trump will be in the state Tuesday and Wednes-day. State voter registration 
deadline extendedTHEY’VE BEEN COMING TO 
GAINESVILLE SINCE 2001 TO 
PROTEST FAST FOOD CHAINS. 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A group is back in Gainesville to protest against Wen-
dy’s tomatoes.
The Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a farmers’ 
rights activist group, came to Gainesville to protest the 
Wendy’s restaurant located at the Reitz Union on Mon-
day and the one on Archer Road on Wednesday. The 
group, which has been coming to Gainesville since 2001, is protesting Wendy’s refusal to join the Fair Food Pro-gram by picketing and boycotting their locations.
Richard MacMaster, the chair of Interfaith Alliance 
for Immigrant Justice, said the program ensures farmers are not exploited in any way for their work by creating a partnership between farmers, farmworkers and retail food companies. But Wendy’s refuses to take part in the program despite efforts from the organizations, he said. Other companies including McDonald’s, Taco Bell and Wal-Mart have joined. 
“We’ve done everything else, and nothing seems to 
work,” he said. 
The coalition has been trying to push Aramark, 
which is part of the program, to get rid of Wendy’s.
An Aramark spokesperson said the company is com-
mitted to ensuring its food and services are produced responsibly and within labor and environmental regula-tions.  
“Wendy’s has a similar code of conduct, and this in-
cludes their tomato suppliers who have all signed the Fair Food Agreement,” Aramark wrote in an email. 
Florida is one of the leading producers of tomatoes, 
but Wendy’s started buying them from farmers in Mexico where the farm work isn’t regulated, said Sheila Payne, a member of Interfaith Alliance for Immigrant Justice.
“What we believe is they have a responsibility all the 
way down the supply chain,” Payne said. Activists return to protest Wendy’sTHEY DISCUSSED HOW TO REC-
OGNIZE BIAS AGAINST CULTURES.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
About 20 students gathered in the Reitz 
Union to discuss and act out common stereo-types their communities face. 
Hispanic Heritage Month, Black History 
Month, Asian Kaleidoscope Month and the Stu-
dent Government Multicultural Affairs Cabinet 
hosted an event Monday night during which participants were split into three teams and act-ed out different stereotypes for the entire group to guess and discuss. 
Marina Bahmad, a 19-year-old UF marketing 
sophomore, said she wanted to bring together three organizations that host monthlong cel-ebrations for their respective cultures. 
“How are you supposed to live and coincide 
with one another if you have no idea how oth-ers live?” said Bahmad, the external program director for Hispanic Heritage Month, which ends Saturday. 
Throughout the event, students talked about 
stereotypes such as Hispanic women working as maids, black women being single mothers with multiple children and Asian students be-ing good at math. 
Havi Tran, 21, the executive director of 
Asian Kaleidoscope Month, said even “posi-
tive” stereotypes such as Asian students being 
considered smart can have negative effects. 
“Our talents diverge beyond that,” the UF 
psychology senior said. “Our culture is much deeper than that.” 
Nadege Dauphin, 21, said she enjoyed dis-
cussing stereotypes she hadn’t considered, such as the idea that Hispanic men are hypersexual-ized. 
The UF health education and behavioral se-
nior said it was important to learn about stereo-types so you don’t generalize a group of people. 
“It limits you from learning about them,” 
she said. “You go in with this prejudgement.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   Student organizations host event to tackle stereotypes
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator
A group of students act out a stereotype on Monday evening. They were pantomim-
ing the misconception that all Hispanic women are maids.
4   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
Alligator File Photo
Islam On Campus will be hosting Islam Appreciation Month this Fall, starting the month with Islama-
palooza, formerly called Islam Fair, today on the Plaza of the Americas.THE EVENT IS TYPICALL Y 
HOSTED IN SPRING, BUT 
CONSTRUCTION GOT IN 
THE WAY.
By Rick Garcia 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
UF’s Islam On Campus is host-
ing Islam Appreciation Month this fall in lieu of its annual fun-draiser. 
The monthlong celebration 
is starting with Islamapalooza, formerly named Islam Fair, on the Plaza of the Americas today from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m., and it will continue Wednesday from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. The event will feature booths where students can get henna tattoos, play trivia about Islam and eat falafels, pita and samosas. 
Nahal Khamisani, the secre-
tary of Islam On Campus, said they decided to host the month-long celebration this Fall after renovations to the Stephen C. O’Connell Center prevented them from having the annual Fast-A-Thon fundraiser, which normally 
happens in the Fall. They plan 
on hosting the fundraiser in the 
Spring, but wanted to spread out 
the organization’s big events, Khamisani said.
“(Islamapalooza) highlights a 
lot of the cultural aspects of Is-
lam while getting the communi-
ty at UF excited with incentives like free henna and food,” the 
19-year-old UF psychology sopho-
more said.
Maria Ilyas, 20, president of Is-
lam On Campus, said the purpose 
of the event is to clear misconcep-
tions about Islam and Muslims. 
“We’re trying to bring an 
awareness and appreciation to 
who Muslims are and what Islam 
is really about,” the UF microbiol-
ogy senior said. 
Daniel Khokar, 18, who iden-
tifies as Muslim, said the event 
means a lot to him because it 
gives him a sense of belonging. 
“It makes me grateful that I 
can be a part of this event and, 
furthermore, grow from it,” the 
UF biology freshman said.Islam On Campus to begin celebrating appreciation month
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
At a meeting to decide the “Old Joe” Con-
federate statue’s future Monday night, one 
man pledged to raise $10,000 to keep the downtown statue where it is.
About a dozen people spoke at the Alach-
ua County Veteran Services Advisory Board meeting, all affirming their belief that the 112-year-old statue should stay where it is. The decision of what to do with the statue was referred to the board after the Matheson History Museum refused to take in the statue due to the cost of moving it, which has been estimated to be more than $36,000.
The statue, first installed in 1904, cur-
rently stands at the corner of East University Avenue and North Main Street — a reminder of Gainesville’s history as the site of a battle during the Civil War, said Vicki Van Buren, the chairwoman of the board.
Following last year’s fatal shooting of 
nine black church parishioners by a white man in Charleston, South Carolina, some Gainesville residents asked the county to re-move the statue.
John McLean, a 61-year-old Gainesville resident whose family served in the confed-eracy in the Battle of Gainesville, told the board the statue should stay downtown. He offered to build an accompanying statue of a union soldier.
“I think that both sides should be repre-
sented,” he said.
Another man, Joe Little, offered to raise 
$10,000 to make a sign clarifying the statue’s purpose.
Van Buren said the board will revisit the 
issue at the next meeting Nov. 14, where it could create a committee to research the statue and talk with residents before recom-mending whether to keep it downtown or move it to Veterans Memorial Park.
“This is not an issue we take lightly,” she 
said.
@ceostroff 
costroff@alligator.org At meeting, residents plead to keep ‘Old Joe’ downtown
Alligator File Photo
The “Old Joe” Confederate statue is pictured on Oct. 6. About a dozen people spoke at the Alachua County Veteran Services Advisory Board meeting on Monday evening to discuss the fate of statue.
THEY WANT THE HOLIDAY  
TO BE INDIGENOUS  
PEOPLE’S DAY INSTEAD.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A general council representative from the 
Seminole Nation of Oklahoma drove to UF 
to talk to students Monday about Indigenous People’s Day — and why it should replace Co-lumbus Day. David Narcomey, a member of the Semi-
nole Nation who served in the tribe’s legis-lative branch, spoke to about 10 students in McCarty Hall about indigenous people’s civil rights and culture. 
Narcomey said indigenous people have al-
ways been in America, so events like Columbus Day, which celebrate Christopher Columbus “discovering” the Americas, are inaccurate. While multiple counties and cities across the U.S. have switched to celebrating Indigenous People’s Day, he said he would like the federal government to address the change. He said Americans shouldn’t celebrate Co-
lumbus, whose appearance drastically hurt the Taíno people he encountered. 
“(Columbus) was an arbitrator of murder, 
slavery and perpetuated genocide against the indigenous people of that area,” Narcomey 
said. “To celebrate somebody of that stature 
and that background just seems incomprehen-sible.” 
Narcomey said UF Professor Robin Wright 
invited him to speak at the university. Wright, who teaches a class called Indigenous Reli-gious Traditions, said it’s important to address the holiday. 
“There’s no need for celebrating Columbus 
Day,” Wright said. “It’s like a memory, a very bad memory, for indigenous people.” 
Derek Ajamian, 21, said the history of Co-
lumbus’ actions against indigenous people 
should be taught more. 
“It’s wrong that they still teach us that,” the 
UF anthropology junior said. “And it should be 
fixed.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  UF students, professor discuss changing Columbus Day 
NEXT VETERAN SERVICES 
ADVISORY BOARD MEETING
• When: Nov. 14
• Where: Veterans Memorial Park
Freedom Community Center7340 SW 41st PlaceTUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Cindy Barski 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hispanic Heritage 
Month is hosting a com-
edy night to break ste-reotypes of the Hispanic community.
The student organi-
zation is bringing come-dian Ruperto Vanderpool to perform for about an 
hour at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom today at 7:30 p.m., after students from the  improvisational comedy group The-atre Strike Force perform at 7 p.m. Peo-
ple who attend the free event, which will  
offer food, should leave proud of who they 
are, no matter what they look like, said Justin Ortiz, one of the co-directors of the event. 
He said the organization wants to break 
break Hispanic stereotypes, Ortiz said. 
“The team’s been working since April (to put together the event), so hopefully the 
hard work will pay off,” the 19-year-old UF 
applied physiology and kinesiology sopho-
more said. 
The month’s theme is “embrace” to help 
students accept their own culture. This 
event is just one part of that, he said.
“Embrace who you are, break barriers 
and don’t let anyone bring you down,” Or-
tiz said. 
Mario Agosto, 20, said he is not a per-
sonal fan of Vanderpool, but he’s looking forward to the event. 
The UF criminology and law junior said 
he plans on attending the show with other members of the Hispanic Student Associa-tion. 
Agosto, the HSA president, said he’s at-
tended events similar to the comedy show and is hoping this one will be even better than last year’s. 
“It’s always a really good time, but we 
strive to have events be better and better every year,” he said.Comedian to talk stereotypes as 
part of Hispanic Heritage Month
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
After coauthoring a 
biography about Gram-
my-award-winning soul 
singer Curtis Mayfield — 
whose music influenced the civil rights movement — a UF alumnus will sign 
copies of his recently pub-
lished book today.
At the free event, which will be held at 
the Hippodrome State Theatre on Tuesday at 7 p.m., coauthor Travis Atria will also 
screen a documentary about the singer’s 
life.
While studying Mayfield’s career, the 
34-year-old realized the songs Mayfield 
wrote during the civil rights movement still 
ring true today, especially when compared to the Black Lives Matter movement.
“What I love about his music is that 
sometimes, even in his love songs, he doesn’t let you forget what is happening,” 
the 34-year-old said. “It’s easy — when you 
don’t live in it — to forget.”
Atria wrote the book “Traveling Soul: 
The Life of Curtis Mayfield” with Mayfield’s 
son, Todd, after realizing there was only 
one biography of the singer available and that it did not go into enough detail.
After working together for five years to 
compile the book, Atria said it was finally 
published on Oct. 1. The response so far, 
including an excerpt by Rolling Stone, has been great, he said. At the event, attendees can buy the book for $25.
Greg “Gargs” Allard, a 52-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said he has been a Mayfield fan for as long as he can remem-ber. In his eyes, his music changed the civil rights movement.
“He gave a voice to those people, and 
he helped to empower minorities and those who wanted to speak out against injustice,” he said. “But he was so cool at the same 
time.”UF alumnus to host event, book 
signing about Curtis Mayfield
Atria
 Vanderpool
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tianhui Jie is unlike most 
15-year-olds.
Before she finished eighth 
grade, the Buchholz High School 
sophomore, who goes by Cindy, 
scored a perfect five on the Ad-vanced Placement Physics 1 exam, became a skilled pianist and competed in several chess tournaments across the country.
On Sept. 20, Jie represented 
Florida for the third time in the 2016 World Youth Chess Cham-pionship, a two-week tournament 
in Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia that 
showcases more than 400 players from 61 countries.
Jie, who returned to Gainesville 
on Friday, was the only Floridian woman to qualify for the U.S. team in the tournament.
“There’s this sense of pride — 
you’re really happy about what you’re doing and really proud of yourself that you’ve achieved so much,” she said.
Jie, the president of the Buch-holz chess club, said although she did not win the competition, she 
made new friends and defeated a 
highly-ranked opponent.
Jie had to miss three weeks of 
classes to compete in the tourna-ment, hosted by the World Chess Federation, said Will Frazer, the coach of the Buchholz math team, of which Jie is a member.
“Not many students could 
miss three weeks of school and get back into the groove,” Frazer said. “I think Cindy can.”
He said Jie’s hard work can serve as moti-vation for her 
peers.
“Her academ-
ics are as good 
as any student 
we have, and at the same time she’s devoting 
lots of hours to chess,” he said. 
“She’s an incredible person.”
Jackie Johnson, the spokes-
woman for Alachua County Pub-
lic Schools, said she was over-joyed Jie could represent the country at the tournament.
“We’re very proud of her 
achievements and very proud that she is representing Alachua County and the United States on the world stage,” she said.
But for Jie, it’s not just about 
winning trophies or earning ac-claim. 
It’s about having fun introduc-
ing her favorite pastime to any-one who’s interested.
“I just want more people to try 
chess,” Jie said. “It’s super fun.”
Local student represents state in international chess competition
Jie
STUDENTS CAN SET THEIR OWN 
RATES AND SCHEDULES. 
By Catherine Dickson 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A partnership between UF and a tutoring 
service is offering UF students the chance to become tutors as a part-time job or volunteer opportunity. 
Tutor Matching Service, which is already 
involved with over 150 schools nationwide, be-gan training UF students about a month ago, and it is looking for K-12 students who need help in their academics. The tutoring service al-lows student tutors to set their own rates and maintain clients in Gainesville and anywhere in the country through online tutoring. 
Tutor Matching Service keeps 5 percent of 
the profit, and another 5 percent is donated to 
UF’s Machen Florida Opportunity Scholars Pro-
gram, but 90 percent of the money earned goes to the student, said Ethan Fieldman, the director of the program, who also founded Study Edge.
Katie Funk, the assistant director for the pro-
gram, said GoBoard, a new online feature, will implement virtual tutoring, which will make it possible for UF student tutors to help anyone who lives outside Gainesville.
“It’s changing the way online tutoring looks 
and is making it more accessible,” she said. “As technology gets better, it’s something that will continue to grow.”
She said before the tutoring program, par-
ents would typically look to Craigslist or contact UF for suggestions on tutors.
“This is a much more concrete way for par-
ents to find tutors online,” she said. “When people get more comfortable with online tutor-ing, it will be a really valuable tool.”
Fieldman said UF students do not realize 
how valuable they are to the community. 
“They are able to bring high-quality, low-
cost tutoring to Gainesville and beyond,” he said. 
Students are able to set their own rates, 
which usually fall between $15 to $20 per hour. Similar tutoring programs can cost between $75 to $90 per hour, he said.
Fieldman said it is a perfect job for college 
students because they are able to set their own schedules and work as much as they want. 
Leslie Pendleton, the director of the Machen 
Florida Opportunity Scholars Program, which gives scholarships to first-generation and low-
income UF students, said the opportunities 
brought by the partnership add to the univer-sity’s resources for students. 
“The angle is to really help the K-12 com-
munity,” Pendleton said. “But if students at UF want help, we will be there for them as well.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgTutoring service hiring UF students
Kelsey Bona / Alligator Staff 
FOOD FOR THOUGHT
UF English sophomore Anna Keefe (left) shows a flyer on her phone to a cashier 
as part of the Cupcakes for a Cure fundraiser at Blaze Pizza on Southwest Archer Road on Monday. With the flyer, 20 percent of the 20-year-old’s meal proceeds went toward the UF Health Shands Pediatric Cancer Center Fund.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORIs Trump a modern-
day Hitler?
According to Godwin’s law, “As an online discussion 
grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazism or Hitler approaches one.” For those of you with no background in statistics, this means the longer an on-line discussion is, the more likely it is that someone will 
compare Nazism or Hitler to his or her opponent’s side of the argument. Given that this election is immersed in online com-munication, it’s unsurprising our candidates are already being compared to the early 1900s political movement.
One candidate is closer to Nazism than the other. Given 
that the leader of the American Nazi Party has endorsed Don-ald Trump, it should be easy to pick out who that candidate is. Trump’s rhetoric during this election has been pretty disgusting, calling Mexican people “rapists and criminals” and wanting to 
ban all Muslims from entering our proudly diverse nation. He, 
like Hitler, creates a phony atmosphere of fear and unites people around this common cause. It’s a pillar of fascism that cannot be ignored. Now, we are not going so far as to say Trump is the embodiment of Hitler and Nazism in the modern day. But he’s as close as America has ever gotten to it, and that alone should be eye-opening.
On Sunday night, we here at the Alligator watched Trump 
during the debate (if you can call it that) and were appalled 
alongside many other Americans. When confronted with a 
leaked tape about his desire to sexually assault a woman (which the Justice Department conﬁ  rmed was, in fact, sexual assault), he apologized insincerely and immediately redirected the con-versation toward the Islamic State group. This, dear reader, is a distraction from the fact that this man, like a dictator, doesn’t care about people and sees them as a means to an end rather than the end itself.
Perhaps the most terrifying thing wasn’t his total indifference 
to these leaked tapes. In an attempt to talk about Hillary Clinton’s well-publicized tangle with law enforcement about her emails (something the FBI has repeatedly brushed off as “irresponsible” but by no means “illegal”), Trump said if he wins the election in November, he will “instruct (his) attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into (Clinton’s) situation.” He turns to face her, wags his ﬁ  ngers and, while she responds, sulks angrily be-hind her like the world’s worst spy. He interrupts her in her refu-tation, saying “you’d be in jail.” 
Trump has long abandoned the U.S. Constitution. Last debate, 
when he advocated for stop-and-frisk style law enforcement, was his ﬁ  rst strike against the Constitution. Saying that alleged ter-rorists don’t deserve due process, that was his second strike. For strike three, he’s using arguably the best legal text in human his-tory as his toilet paper, saying he’s going to jail his political op-ponent. This legal question is long over, and he’s dragging it out as a way to climb to power, now threatening to jail Clinton once he’s elected. That is the policy of a dictator, which is not up for 
debate.
The only thing more terrifying than Trump’s disrespect of the 
Constitution and his illegal desire to jail political opponents is the 
support he’s managed to garner. When he said “you’d be in jail,” there was mild applause from the crowd. We remember times when Trump made everybody “take a pledge” and raise their hands to him, not the Republican Party, the U.S. or the Constitu-tion, but to Trump. We remember times when supporters were encouraged by Trump to beat up protesters. We remember times 
when supporters shouted “go back to Auschwitz” to people vid-
eotaping them as they left a rally.
Is Trump Hitler, and are his supporters Nazis? Are they all 
fascists? Not really. But they’re the closest Americans have ever gotten to fascism, and they’re blurring that line more and more every day.
 The key to understanding the art you love: create
Yeah, I talked about “Homestar Run-
ner” two weeks ago. That’s ﬁ  ne. I’m going to talk about it again. Here I go. 
Let’s dance.
This past weekend, I drove up to 
Atlanta for an anniversary concert for the web 
cartoon “Homestar Runner.” The two folks 
who produce the cartoon, brothers Mike and 
Matt Chapman, put on the most incredible musical event that could possibly come out of a web cartoon, and I loved it. It took place in a restaurant to a crowd of about 150 people and lasted 
about 3 hours with a brief intermission.
There’s something to be understood about the “Home-
star Runner” fan base: It’s very niche. Everyone at the 
concert was a superfan, that is to say. With that limited 
number of about 150 tickets available, anyone who got 
a ticket really wanted it. So, these folks knew “Home-star Runner” like the back of their hands; the pre-show crowd banter consisted of nothing but references and inside jokes. These folks cared about “Homestar Run-
ner” deeply, but I can’t say I enjoyed talking to many of 
them. Beside the fact that everyone at that concert was, to some extent, a socially inept geek (except for me, of course), I couldn’t ﬁ  nd anyone who had something re-
ally constructive to say about the cartoon. Every dia-
logue I had was just an exchange of funny moments we liked in the cartoon or a discussion of how we found the website. No one, however, talked to me about “Home-star Runner” as a work of art. I would ask, “Why do you 
think it’s so funny?” I’d usually get a shallow answer.
After the show, I had the pleasure of meeting the 
Chapman brothers, who I can now say with certainty 
are absolute role models as far as artists go. They were 
incredibly humble, maintained their sense of humor 
and respected every audience member they met. I had a 10-minute conversation with Mike about profanity in his works of art and a 10-minute conversation with Matt about metahumor in both his works and my works. We talked about the artistic 
process and how we do or do not rely on our 
audience. We discussed world building and canon. Matt Chapman showed genuine in-terest in my comic, for which I’m incredibly 
grateful.
Ironically, the most community I found 
was with the creators, not the audience. 
When I spoke to an audience member, I got 
the impression I was talking to a consumer, not an art-
ist. “Homestar Runner” has a huge impact on the art I 
create, and I tried to convey that as well as I could to the Chapman brothers. The words we exchanged were so much more meaningful than a “thank you” or an “I 
love your work.” We respected each other as artists and 
acknowledged what it meant to make a long-standing work of art like “Homestar Runner.” Conversely, I felt like the audience didn’t fully appreciate the work the Chapman brothers have done.
I realized creating art is such an important part of ap-
preciating art. Knowing what goes into a comedic work made me understand more clearly why “Homestar Run-ner” is so successful and so groundbreaking. When I 
spoke to the Chapman brothers about their work of art, 
I wanted them to know what I enjoyed and why I en-joyed it. I wanted to let them know what I learned from their art, because that, to me, is how to respect an artist for their work. So, create art. Make art. Make the kind 
of art you enjoy. And when you fail — like I do daily 
— realize what it means that the artists you appreciate succeeded. Don’t just make art because you want to cre-ate, but make art because it makes its consumption that 
much sweeter.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineering junior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
A few weeks ago, I wrote 
about the slew of parties and bad decisions that 
came about in response 
to Hurricane Hermine. 
Sure, some people stocked up on bottled water and bread in antici-
pation of the Category-1 storm, 
but the majority of us celebrated our day off with some choice beverages and friends. After all, it had been a while since the last 
hurricane made landfall in Florida and eons 
since one had caused any long-lasting dam-age. With Hurricane Matthew,  all of that changed. 
I’ve lived in Florida all 21 years of my 
life and lived through my fair share of hur-ricanes. They’ve always been more synony-mous with “an excuse to sit at home read-ing by candlelight” than “natural disaster” in my mind, but this storm marked the ﬁ  rst time I was genuinely terriﬁ  ed of the consequences. Despite my rational knowl-
edge that Gainesville would remain largely 
unscathed by Hurricane Matthew, The Weather Channel, mainstream media and seemingly all of my Facebook friends were 
determined to convince me otherwise.
I have never seen that level of hurricane-
induced panic in my life. At ﬁ  rst I thought 
that perhaps this was what my parents had always felt in the days leading up to a storm, 
while I, in my naïveté, worried only about 
what book I would read when the power inevitably went out. Were they bombarded 
by channel after channel of newscasters 
calmly informing them that the storm could kill them and their children? I have yet to determine whether the media coverage on 
this storm was part of a larger pattern, but I 
remain conﬁ  dent that something about Hur-ricane Matthew was different.
Whether it was news anchor Shep Smith 
enthusiastically explaining, “This moves 20 miles to the west, and you and everyone you know are dead — all of you — because you can’t survive it… And your kids die, 
too” or Gov. Rick Scott pleading for coastal 
Floridians to evacuate because “This storm will kill you” last week was a cav-alcade of voices insisting on Hur-ricane Matthew’s lethality. While 
I understand these were neces-
sary precautions to prevent a Ka-trina-level disaster, social media quickly took these warnings to a 
new level of fearmongering. 
A picture circulated on Face-
book claiming to compare the 
size of Hurricane Matthew to Hur-ricane Katrina side by side, and it 
was quickly revealed to be simply two pic-tures of the same storm. The comparison continued to appear as people took to the internet to vent their anxiety and frustra-
tion. For those few days, I couldn’t seem to 
escape the hysteria as ﬁ  eld reporters, me-dia personalities and well-meaning friends insisted that I should be panicking. So natu-rally, I did. 
In retrospect, I suppose it is better to be 
drastically over-prepared for a natural disas-ter than the opposite. I could breathe a sigh 
of relief when I woke up with my apartment 
still standing and received the call that my parents were safe, too. But I still can’t shake the feeling that a portion of the hype sur-
rounding Hurricane Matthew was fueled by 
its status as a newsworthy topic and guar-anteed click. I hope I’m wrong. I really do. 
However, nothing was worse than the 
insensitive post-storm whines of, “Ugh how 
lame, I wish the storm had been stronger.” 
Sure, it’s annoying to “unnecessarily” go through the motions of hurricane prepara-
tion, but to actively wish for a more devas-
tating storm is to shrug off the lives lost in Hurricane Matthew’s wake. This is Florida, and hurricane prep is just something you do 
and hope you never need.  
All in all, our response to this storm was 
a discomﬁ  ting example of how easily panic can spread online. The line separating genu-
ine concern from fearmongering can be dif-ﬁ  cult to see, yet it is increasingly important for us to consider before we use social me-dia for emotional catharsis. 
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.Hurricane Matthew: discerning 
between fearmongering and factsColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgDespite Libertarian Party 
presidential nominee Gary Johnson’s ignorant 
question, “What is Alep-
po?” many politicians 
recognize that the grave situation 
in Syria can no longer be ignored. Since 2011, the country has been 
involved in a destructive, multi-
faceted civil war, which has grown to involve many warring factions: President Bashar al-Assad’s gov-
ernment, moderate opposition forces, extrem-
ist Islamic State ﬁ  ghters and the Al-Nusra Front, among other groups. No side has yet claimed victory in this brutal war marked by as many as 430,000 casualties and heinous 
war crimes committed by all sides. Earlier 
this month, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry negotiated a deal with Russia to reduce vio-lence in Syria and de-escalate tensions. Un-fortunately, the deal quickly collapsed, and 
Syria descended into chaos once more.
As violence has escalated, several external 
forces have lent support by proxy to the vari-
ous factions. Most notably, Russia has sup-
ported Assad’s forces, while the U.S. has of-
fered aid to opposition ﬁ  ghters. The ill-fated deal marked a concerted effort to end the bloody conﬂ  ict via collaboration between the historically-opposed U.S. and Russia. Kerry, 
and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, 
came together to demand a seven-day cease-ﬁ  re across Syria and unhindered humanitar-ian access to all regions of the country. If the truce had held, the U.S. and Russia would 
have then worked together to target Islamic 
extremist ﬁ  ghters, namely from the Al-Nus-ra and IS factions. Sadly, Kerry’s deal never made it that far. The plan depended largely 
on Russia successfully preventing Assad’s 
forces from indiscriminately bombing re-gions held by IS group and Al-Nusra, a move meant to reduce civilian casualties, while the U.S. was to persuade the opposition groups 
it backed to distance themselves from the 
Al-Nusra forces in the country. As it turned out, Russia proved unwilling to maintain the 
ceaseﬁ  re, instead launching attacks on Alep-
po. Both sides ardently claim that the other 
failed to uphold their side of the bargain. De-
spite urgent negotiations, no new deal has been reached, leaving the Syrian people in 
even graver danger and observers pondering what went wrong.
From the beginning, the com-
plicated plan faced much criticism, namely for its requirement that the 
U.S. share intelligence with Russia 
pertaining to Islamic extremist tar-
gets in Syria. U.S. Secretary of De-fense Ashton Carter and other top 
ofﬁ  cials at the Pentagon asserted 
their opposition to the plan, citing doubts that Russia would uphold its end of the deal with regard to 
reduction of violence and aversion to sharing information with a military adversary. Presi-dent Barack Obama ultimately approved the plan, despite citing “gaps of trust” between the U.S. and Russian governments as an ob-
stacle to reducing violence. Ultimately, these 
doubts about Russia’s reliability proved true, as the ceaseﬁ  re collapsed partly due to Rus-sian air strikes on Aleppo. Predictions from U.S. government ofﬁ  cials aside, the agree-
ment faced further practical challenges in its 
implementation.
In February 2016, similar agreements 
failed as Russia continued air strikes despite 
ceaseﬁ  re agreements. Ultimately, the current 
agreement was equally vulnerable to these types of failures as it contained no explicit penalties for a failure to uphold the terms of the agreement. The notable difference this 
time around was the collaborative nature of 
the deal, in which Russia and the U.S. would have established a Joint Implementation Cen-ter and worked together against extremist forces operating in the country. Though the 
U.S. and Russia have backed different sides 
in the conﬂ  ict, they are united in their op-position of both IS and the Al-Nusra Front. This mutual goal was meant to be the key 
to ensuring cooperation between the two 
powers, who harbor deep-seated mistrust for one another but ﬁ  nd their strategic goals aligned. Unfortunately, the possibility of gain-ing U.S. help in ﬁ  ghting IS and Al-Nusra was 
not enough to secure Moscow’s cooperation. 
Only time will tell whether another deal will bring an end to the civil war in Syria, but for 
the foreseeable future, it seems that any solu-
tion hinging on U.S.-Russian cooperation is 
doomed to fail.
A version of this column by Akshaya 
Annapragada originally appeared in The Harvard Political Review.What is Secretary of State John 
Kerry doing for Aleppo?UWire
Akshaya 
Annapragada
UWire8   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Gabrielle Fazekas, 18, a UF business administration freshman and 
Gator Growl staff member, demonstrates how attendees voted for the crowd favorite at the 2016 UF Homecoming Pageant at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Monday evening. 
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Saneh Ste. Claire, a UF agricultural education and communication senior, smiles after being named to the 2016 UF Homecoming Court.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
UF’s Danza Dance Company performs as the judges decide who the six members of the 2016 Homecoming Court will be.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
The 2016 UF Homecoming Pageant contestants do the Gator Chomp as they take the stage for the first time.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
From left: Shir Ibgui, a UF marketing senior, smiles and hugs Saneh Ste. 
Claire after winning Miss Congeniality and Miss Crowd Favorite.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
The 2016 UF Homecoming Pageant judges look on as contestants walk across the stage in the  
“Gator Spirit Portion” of the night.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
One of the Dance Marathon leaders lunges in a preview of the 2016 Dance Marathon line dance at the 2016 UF Homecoming Pageant.
CROWNING  
THE COURT
Forty-four contestants took to the stage at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Monday night to compete for the titles of UF Homecoming Queen and King as part of the UF Homecoming Pageant. Six people were chosen to be part of the 2016 Homecoming Court, and the King and Queen will be announced on Friday night during Gator Growl.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
From left: Saneh Ste. Claire, a UF agricul-tural education and communication senior, hugs Noelle Spencer, a UF political science senior, after being named one of the top 12 for UF’s 2016 Homecoming Pageant.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  eds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly 
remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back 
porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, 
contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-
5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-11-16-9-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. 
Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet 
home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 
850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto SalesNO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $1499
01 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999
352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed10 For Sale 12 AutosTUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Another Saturday night 
without a date?
Read The Alligator.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
PT cleaner needed ASAP for homes, apart-ments, & offices. Weekly pay/8.50 hr; Must have/use own transportation. If interested please call 352-214-0868; gas paid for driving to numerous places in a shift....10-18-5-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     10-11-16-5-14LOOKING FOR A CAREER?
North Florida Retirement Village is holding 
a Career Fair on Oct. 13th from 9:30am – 
12:30pm.  We are hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!  We are seeking: 
● Nurses (RN & LPN)
● Assisted Living & Home Care CNAs
● Companions● Servers/Kitchen Porters● Cooks
● Sous Chefs
● Security Guards
● Transportation Drivers● Painters
Come out to our Career Fair to learn more 
about our employment opportunities.  We are 
located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL. 32606. Security Guards will direct visi-tors once on campus. Please apply online at 
www.thevillageonline.com/careers.    10-13-
16-6-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgACROSS
1 __ and flows
5 Stepped heavily
9 __ Rica
14 Pitcher’s goof
15 Inflatable
mattress prefixwith Bed
16 Colorado ski
mecca
17 Muslim
denomination
18 Not fatty, as meat
19 Lease again
20 *Artsy Lower
Manhattan
neighborhood
23 Car owner’s
premium pmt.
24 American of
Japanesedescent
25 Dieter’s
catchword
27 Sweat unit
30 Originates (from)
33 Like morning
grass
36 Title for Doubtfire
or Dash
38 Site of Arizona’s
Red Rock State
Park
39 Rocks in bars40 Set in a den,
slangily ... or,initially, what canbe found in eachanswer to astarred clue
42 Gratuity43 Dessert with a
cherry
45 Refreshing
retreat
46 Wines that
usually go wellwith beef
47 __ seat:
advantageousspot
49 In couch-potato
mode
51 France dance
52 Up to one’s ears
(in)
56 Architect I.M. __
58 *Drug bust
calculation
62 Throat ailment
64 Modest skirt
65 Writer Jaffe66 Video game
pioneer
67 Region68 Sullen69 Makeover place70 Camera
attachment
71 Bay Area cop gp.
DOWN
1 “Barnaby Jones”
actor Buddy
2 Persian faith3 Utter joy
4 Glide past on the
ice
5 Anklebones
6 Movie spool7 Verbal8 Name on a
Trump card?
9 Untroubled
10 Suffix with fruct-11 *Panel decision
that’s notunanimous
12 “The Hunger
Games” extra
13 Picnic invaders21 “C’est la __!”22 Turns sour26 Help28 UMass town29 Hip-hop Dr.31 Oklahoma’s
“Wheat Capital”
32 Drains of strength33 Phonograph
record
34 Quito’s country:
Abbr.35 *Became a
YouTube
sensation
37 N.Y. and Calif.
40 Dramatic downturn
41 Wire service
letters
44 Corporate alias
abbr.
46 Bounty hunters’
goals
48 Of the skin
50 Where a Brit may
powder her nose53 Unlikely to get
excited
54 Dawn
55 Listened to
56 “This is your
brain on drugs”
ads, briefly
57 Singer James
59 Irish name for
Ireland
60 Xanadu
61 Spanish aunts
63 Suffix with 
ranch
By Janice Luttrell©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/11/1610/11/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 11, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
FREE RIDE FOR CO-DRIVER
to Wrightsville Beach, N.C. or other point en 
route. Leave Gville Oct 13, return Oct 16. 
Call 352-294-3937, leave message.    10-
11-5-23
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & 
found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost 
what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
SMALL BLACK DOG MISSING
LOST ON SW 20TH AVENUE IN KENSINGTON NORTHBLACK SHIHTZUPLEASE CALL 352-213-1694 WITH INFO    10-13-16-5-25
Designated drivers are the greatestIS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
18 Personals
 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
T aylor Tubbs and the Florida 
women's cross country team is looking to build on its recent success. Read the story, pg 16.  Florida soccer star earns weekly honor
UF forward Savannah Jordan was named the Southeastern Conference 
Offensive Player of Week, the league announced Monday. Jordan led the 
Gators with four goals over the team's last two games. This is the eighth time she's received the same recognition. Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
If you ask Florida's players 
what they like about playing for 
the Gators, their answer will prob-ably sound a lot like senior Justin Leon’s. 
“Our rowdy fans,” the forward 
said. “They just support us no 
matter what, and I guess that’s my 
favorite part.” Leon’s favorite part will fall 
victim to an unfavorable schedule this season.
The O’Connell Center — fol-
lowing an ongoing $64.5 million overhaul which began in March — won’t be ready to host any basketball games until Dec. 21, according to the University Ath-letic Association. In the meantime, 
Florida’s designated home games 
will be played at satellite locations in Jacksonville, Lakeland and Sun-rise. 
As a result, Florida’s basketball 
players will play 11 games, or one third of the season, before step-ping foot in their own arena. 
“I guess we’ll worry about that 
when it comes,” Leon said. “But I 
know that’ll be a big challenge."
Last season, UF performed well 
in the O’Connell Center. Florida 
went 12-4 on its home court and 
6-9 on the road. 
Leon said multiple factors can 
make road games difficult.   
“The atmosphere, the fans, the 
big stage, all the heckling. It’s not your gym, so you gotta kind of get 
used to the goals, or they may use different balls than you use,” Leon said. 
“It’s a lot of small stuff that 
may affect your game.”
Junior point guard Chris Chi-
ozza said he isn’t as affected by away trips. Individually, he played 
better on the road last season, 
shooting 39.2 percent when away compared to 31.4 percent at home last season.
“We travel so much that it’s 
not gonna make a difference for the veterans,” Chiozza said. “But I think the younger guys are really going to find it’s harder than they 
think to travel consistently, come 
back, go to school, practice, then get right back on a plane (and) go Florida basketball forced to adjust to road-heavy schedule
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Justin Leon attempts a dunk during Florida's 95-63 win over Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center. 
Staff Report
A weekend without Florida football meant a week 
of unanswered questions surrounding the team. On 
Monday, UF coach Jim McElwain and several players met with reporters. Here's what we learned:
1. After UF’s Saturday game against LSU was 
postponed, criticism rained in on the program throughout social media. UF coach Jim McElwain was shocked at the backlash, especially at media members and fans who claimed UF was trying to avoid playing the Tigers. “Obviously, they don’t know me, they don’t know the Florida Gators. They don’t know our players,” McElwain said. “How any-body could even think that way is beyond me.” 
2. Quarterback Luke Del Rio is back and healthy, 
which means he’ll probably start this Saturday against Missouri. Although, when discussing UF’s quarterback situation, McElwain was vague. “Luke, we were prepared to play him this week,” McElwain said. “We’ll play him again obviously moving for-ward as we go.”
3. Florida offered shelter to players’ families dur-ing the hurricane. All they had to do was drive up to Gainesville. “You could definitely tell guys were bothered that they weren’t home with their fami-lies,” center Cameron Dillard said. “Gainesville was sort of a safe haven for them to get away from the hurricane.”
4. Appleby doesn’t know who will start at quar-
terback, and when asked if Del Rio being healthy meant Appleby will head back to the bench, the graduate transfer said no. “You must know more than me,” Appleby said. “Nobody has told me any-thing.”
5. McElwain blamed the negative attention Flori-
da received regarding its postponed game on media members and Twitter. “You guys are all, nowadays I guess, accountable for getting X amount of little shots out on your Twitter thing. That’s how you get paid instead of writing stories,” McElwain said. “So I guess whatever you do, I mean there isn’t much thought that goes behind it to me that somebody would actually think that.”  
@icohenb 
icohen@alligator.orgFive takeaways from UF football 
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
During the second set of Sunday’s 
matchup between No. 9 Florida and South Carolina, Gamecocks middle blocker Alicia Starr went up high for a kill to dent the Gators’ 23-19 lead.
She got stuffed.Florida went on to defeat South 
Carolina in a clean sweep on Sun-day.
And as evidenced by that play, it 
was due in large part to its defense. 
With a tall, physical front row 
and relentless backcourt, the Gators (14-2, 3-1 Southeastern Conference) have made themselves the team to fear in the SEC.The Gators have totaled 157 
blocks (2.91 blocks per set) and have only surrendered an opponent hitting percentage of .166, ranking them first and second in the confer-ence, respectively. 
On Sunday, Florida held the 
Gamecocks to a .030 hitting percent-age, including a negative .069 per-centage in the first set, and recorded 11 total blocks.
“Our players take a lot of pride 
in the hitting efficiency of our oppo-nents,” UF coach Mary Wise said on Monday. “A lot of credit to the scout-ing report and the work that our staff puts in in preparing for opponents.”
In the frontcourt, the team’s Defense defining 
Gators volleyball teamSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14
SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
somewhere else. 
“I think it’s going to 
take a toll on them.”
Keith Stone, a redshirt 
freshman, will take the 
court for the first time this season and says the team can handle the 11-game tour. 
“We just (have) al-
ways been through ad-versity,” he said. “We’re used to it.”
But he said he likes 
the challenge of playing in a hostile environment. 
“You go into some-
body’s place and just 
make them quiet,” Stone 
said. 
Like Stone, UF coach 
Mike White is making the 
best out of the situation. 
“Optimistically think-
ing, we hope that it gives 
us added experience on the road away from home,” he said Thurs-day. “I know when we get back in the O'Dome, 
that place will be rocking, 
and it will be a significant home-court advantage for us.”
To help the players 
acclimate to the constant travel to start the season, White said his staff will be giving players more 
rest, especially around 
exam time late in the fall.
“We can sit here and 
complain about having to play on the road,” White 
said. 
“I’m pretty happy we 
get to play on the road 
in the Fall because that 
means we’re about to 
move into a beautiful fa-cility.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg13The O 'Connell Center 
will be ready Dec. 21
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Chris Chiozza dribbles during UF's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center. 
length has been key.
Middle blockers Rhamat Al-
hassan and Rachael Kramer, who 
tower at 6-foot-4 and 6-foot-8, re-spectively, lead the team.
Alhassan, whose 13 solo blocks 
leads the team, and Kramer, who has recorded at least five total blocks in five games, have com-bined for a whopping 115 total 
blocks.
The sheer length of the front-
court alone makes it difficult for 
opposing teams to put the ball over 
the net.
“(Sunday) was one of those 
matches where I felt that because 
we served well, we could take ad-
vantage, again, of our size,” Wise 
said. 
In the back row, feisty libero Caroline Knop is the leader.
The junior has been an anchor 
for the Gators’ defense and has been a consistent source of energy for the team.
Knop, who leads the team with 
208 digs, including 17 against South Carolina, has been a thorn in the side of opposing outside hit-
ters and middle blockers all season 
long. 
“C.K. played really well,” Wise said of Knop’s play against the 
Gamecocks. “Our back row did 
such a good job, and so when South Carolina tried a different shot, we were able to transition 
that, as well.”
The Gators will be on the road 
Friday night to face an LSU team 
that has one of the weakest attacks 
in the SEC. The Tigers (7-10, 2-4 
SEC) rank outside the top 10 in hit-
ting percentage (.195), assists per set (11.28) and kills per set (12.22).
“We’re going to spend these 
next few days, as we do every 
week, we’ll watch film and see if … we can get the Gators better,” Wise 
said, “And see if there’s anything 
we can do to keep LSU from being 
their best.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org VOLLEY,  from pg#Alhassan and Kramer have combined for 115 total blocks
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (1) attempts a kill during Florida's sweep of Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rachael Kramer (5) high-fives teammates during Florida's 3-1 win over Marshall on Sept. 17 in the Lemerand Center. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
After being shut out 3-0 by 
Auburn at home on Sept. 22, the 
Gators had two ways they could respond.
They could either give up, or 
they could fight to save their sea-son. 
Florida took the second op-
tion.Since that game, the No. 16 
Gators (10-3, 5-2 Southeastern Conference) have gone 4-0 and have only given up one goal in 
the process.
“We are kind of coming, sur-prisingly quickly, towards the 
end of our season,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “But at the same time, each of these matches 
carries a lot importance to us. So 
being able to be mentally able ev-ery time (is important).”
Florida’s wins haven’t come 
without adversity. 
The Gators had to deal with 
the impact of Hurricane Matthew last Thursday when their start time was moved up two hours, 
leaving James G. Pressly almost 
empty when they played Georgia.
Florida also had two of their 
last four games on the road ver-sus SEC opponents, both of which 
were coming off wins.
The Gators snapped Tennes-
see’s three-game win streak on 
Sept. 25 and Ole Miss’s two-game 
win streak on Sunday.
And the wins have made the 
team stronger, especially on de-
fense.
Three of its last four games 
have been shutouts, which is a 
credit to sophomore goalkeeper 
Kaylan Marckese’s ability in the box.
“I am proud of our team’s abil-
ity to step up and take responsi-
bility for overall team defense,” 
Burleigh said. “Not just having defenders think about defending and attackers think about attack-ing … We want our goalkeeper to start our attack and our forwards to start our defense.” 
The Gators are also much im-
proved on offense.
In the last four games, Florida 
has had a combined 11 goals, five of which belong to senior forward Savannah Jordan.
The Fayette-
ville, Georgia, native, who was 
named SEC Of-fensive Player 
of the Week on 
Monday, leads both her team and the SEC 
with 12 goals and 31 points, de-
spite many teams marking her.
“I think she has been doing 
that most of her career.” Bur-
leigh said. “When you score five 
goals in your opening weekend 
as a freshman, you start to get marked early. You can see the growth in her game, and the abil-ity for her to dish out assists this 
year more so than ever.”
The Gators have five days to 
prepare before they face unde-
feated No. 4 South Carolina.
“They are very, very strong 
defensively and as a unit,” Bur-leigh said. “I think that’s some-thing that will be a great match-up for us and see if we can break 
that down and put pressure on 
them.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgAfter early skid, Gators riding four-game SEC win streak
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kaylan Marckese passes the ball into play during Florida’s 5-2 win over Iowa State on Aug. 19 at James 
G. Pressly Stadium. 
THE FLORIDA MEN’S 
SWIMMING TEAM 
RETURNS THREE 
ATHLETES WHO 
COMPETED IN RIO.By Drew Kozlin
Sports Writer
The Florida swimming team 
will take on FSU on Thursday in 
Tallahassee, but a rivalry meet isn’t the only thing UF has to be excited about.
The three male swimmers 
who participated in the Rio Olympics this summer (Caeleb Dressel, Mitch D’Arrigo and Jan Switkowski) will return to com
-
petition, and the timing couldn’t 
be better.
“The addition of all three of 
those guys into our men’s team 
just changes the complete dy -
namic of that men’s program,” associate head coach Jeff Pop
-
pell said on Monday. 
“What they bring not just 
from a competitive standpoint 
but from a leadership aspect to 
the rest of the men on the team is invaluable.”
D’Arrigo, Dressel and Swit
-
kowski spent the first portion of the season reacclimating to school and college life.
Their return will be pivotal 
for the team moving forward as the Gators face Florida State and then travel to Indiana to take on No. 1 Texas and No. 9 Indiana.
And while upcoming match
-
es with top-10 teams will draw plenty of attention, Poppell be
-
lieves the Gators have all their efforts invested in Florida State this week.“We take great pride in repre
-
senting Gator nation, so it’s one of those where any time we’re up against in-state rival Florida 
State, it adds a little excitement 
to the competition given who our opponent is,” Poppell said.
If history 
is any indica
-
tion, the Gators should be in 
good shape.
The men 
haven’t lost to Florida State since 2010, 
while the wom
-
en have won every year since 
2012.
Both of those losses, howev -
er, came in Tallahassee, where the teams will meet this week.
“Florida State, this is their 
first meet of the season … so it’s one of those where I’m sure they’re gonna be fired up and excited to go in their home pool 
and the first competition of the 
season for them,” Poppell said. 
“Obviously we want to match 
and exceed that excitement on our end of things so we can 
come out on top.”
@DrewKoz2
dkozlin@alligator.orgSwim team back in full force as it prepares for FSU
The Associated Press
Caeleb Dressel reacts after winning the 100-yard freestyle at the NCAA men’s swimming and diving 
championships on March 26. 
Burleigh
Poppell
“...They’re gonna be fired up 
and excited to go in their 
home pool.”
Jeff Poppell
Associate head swimming coachBy Mark Stine
Sports Writer
The Florida cross country 
teams are approaching the half-
way point of the season and only 
have one meet left before the 
Southeastern Conference Cham-
pionship.
This Saturday both the wom-
en‘s and men’s teams will com-
pete at the NCAA Pre-National 
in Terre Haute, Indiana, against 
many of the top teams in the 
country.
Both teams have competed 
well this season, but each is ap-proaching the weekend differ-ently.
Women:The women’s team should 
approach the Pre-National meet 
with nothing but conﬁ  dence.
The Gators ﬁ  nished in ﬁ  fth 
place in their last meet at the Paul Short Run in Pennsylvania, 
behind only four top-30 teams. 
Five UF athletes placed in the top 70, including senior Taylor 
Tubbs, who ﬁ  nished seventh 
overall.
The high ﬁ  nish at the Paul 
Short Run gave Florida consid-eration to be nationally ranked — UF received six votes to be 
placed in the top 30.
“They go out there and com-
pete with a lot of pride,” coach 
Paul Spangler said. “I’ve been very impressed with what they’ve done.”
Most impressive has been the 
performance of the team’s fresh-
men.
With the absences of top ath-
letes such as sophomore Elisa-beth Bergh and redshirt junior 
Becky Greene, freshmen like Jes-sica Pascoe and Hannah Brook-over have stepped up. Both Pas-coe and Brookover ran personal best times in the 6K at the Paul Short Run and contributed heav-ily to the Gators’ top-ﬁ  ve ﬁ  nish.
With Bergh returning to com-
petition this weekend, look for 
the women to be very competi-
tive against high-caliber competi-
tion.  
Men:
The male athletes need to 
have a breakthrough day if they 
want to make a splash in Terre 
Haute.
The team is coming off a de-
cent outing at the Paul Short 
Run, ﬁ  nishing 12th overall.
Consistency is going to be the key for the men. And the team‘s 
model of consistency this season 
has been Carlos Miranda.
The senior ran a personal best 
in the 8K in Pennsylvania, break-ing 24 minutes for the ﬁ  rst time in his Gator career and ﬁ  nishing 13th overall in a very competitive ﬁ  eld.
However, behind Miranda 
was a signiﬁ  cant gap. 
The second and third Florida 
ﬁ  nishers were sophomores Mag-nus Pettersen and Jack Guyton, who ran personal bests but ﬁ  n-ished 73rd and 93rd overall, re-spectively.
“Magnus and Jack were 
roughly 30 to 40 seconds behind Carlos, and they need to close 
that gap,” Spangler said. “And I 
think they will. Magnus … he’s 
ready to have a breakthrough 
race.”
A breakthrough race from 
those running behind Miranda 
will be necessary if the Gators want a top ﬁ  nish on Saturday. 
But at the very least the men 
should be competitive for at-large points that could help vault them into NCAA Championship 
in November.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgFlorida cross country teams have reason for conﬁ  dence 
Alligator File Photo 
T aylor Tubbs runs during the 2015 Mountain Dew Invitational at 
the Mark Bostick Golf Course.
16   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2016
a plane. We had buses. We were willing to 
go. That’s my point I want to make here. We 
would have done anything to play the game.”
But with so many of UF’s players affected, 
McElwain said UF made the right decision not to play.
Jordan said 52 UF football players had fami-
lies living in areas under severe weather warn-
ings, and many of them were worried through-
out the storm.
“You could deﬁ  nitely tell guys were both-
ered that they weren’t home with their fami-lies,” center Cameron Dillard said. “Lives are more important than this game. It’s a game.”
McElwain said UF invited players’ families 
to stay in Gainesville shelters instead of their homes. Some accepted the invitation, and al-most all have returned back to their houses 
now that power has been restored.“The look on quite a few people’s faces that 
had been through things before, knowing what 
their families were about ready to go through,” 
McElwain said. “It was hard. It was hard on 
everybody.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgHURRICANE,  from pg. 1Dillard: ‘Lives are more important than this game. It’s a game.’