By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A man lit the ﬁ  rst candle at 7:12 p.m. out-
side the Power House Family Worship Center.
About 40 others followed during a vigil for 
Robert Dentmond, who was killed March 20 
in a standoff with police.
Montrae McCray, 16, said he spent most 
of his summer with Dentmond, often playing basketball.
McCray said he remembers the way Dent-
mond would toss backward shots at the hoop and make a habit of gooﬁ  ng off.
Monday morning, he heard the news.“I couldn’t believe it — I thought it was all 
a dream, but it wasn’t,” he said.
They last spoke in December, when the 
two tried to plan Dentmond’s birthday party. If McCray were to see Dentmond again, he may be at a loss for words.
“I really don’t know — I’d probably just 
give him a hug,” he said.
      
Bishop Leo Robinson spoke of strength in 
the face of tragedy as he addressed the crowd Monday evening.
“We are here today to support the family, 
the community — to keep the unity,” he said.
Robinson said he hopes to build a “life 
center” at the church sometime this year, but he needs money. The center would offer after-school care such as tutoring, sports and job application assistance, he said.
“This is our goal here at Power House,” he 
said. “We’re reaching out to people that we don’t know but we care about.”
Robinson said he hopes the church can 
help prevent such incidents from happening again and that memories of Dentmond will live in those who knew him.
At 7:26 p.m., the candles were extin-
guished.
      
Eight days after Dentmond’s death, Sherry 
Maguire walked into her eighth-grade reading class.We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 128 TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
FIND YOUR FALL GAINESVILLE APARTMENT  
FOR FREE.
McElwain looks toward 
future at Florida
 UF held its ﬁ  rst scrimmage, pg. 13Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Jennifer Appel mourns her adopted son, Robert Dentmond, who died at a Gainesville apartment building last week, at Power House Family Worship Center on Monday night. About 30 people, including both family and strangers, showed up for the candlelit service.
A community honors Robert DentmondVIGIL
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Sana Hafeez was quiet as she lit more than 
100 candles on Turlington Plaza on Monday night to honor those killed in Lahore, Paki-stan.
About 120 students lit candles and listened 
as Hafeez, who helped organize the event, spoke about a suicide bombing in Pakistan on Easter Sunday. It killed 72 people and injured 341 others in a public park, according to CNN.
A subgroup of the Taliban claimed respon-
sibility for the attack, which they said targeted Pakistani Christians celebrating Easter.
Hafeez, a UF microbiology and cell science 
freshman, said the vigil allowed students of 
all religions and nationalities to stand together 
against terrorism.
“We are so much stronger together than we 
are apart, and they know that,” the 19-year-
old said to the silent crowd. “That’s why they try to divide us.”
A group of 18 students also said a janazah 
prayer, a Muslim funeral prayer to honor the dead, Hafeez said.
She said the attack in Lahore and recent 
terrorist attacks in Libya, Baghdad, Yemen and other countries should gather as much attention as the Brussels bombing that took place March 22.
“All these victims matter,” she said. “The 
lives lost here were equally important to the lives lost in Brussels.”
She said she organized the vigil after see-
ing there were no events to honor Pakistan’s victims. She reached out to the Pakistani Stu-dents’ Association to help her organize it.Remembering 
Pakistan bomb victims 
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF undergraduate students 
can soon major in public health.
The UF College of Public 
Health and Health Professions 
will begin offering a bachelor’s degree in public health next Fall. It has taken more than a year to create the new major, said Mi-chael Moorhouse, the college’s director of the bachelor of health science program.
The new major will focus on 
overall health issues such as the Zika virus, he said.
“Public health is the art and science of preventing disease and prolonging life,” Moorhouse said.
Students can apply for the ma-
jor during their sophomore year, he said. They would start taking classes their junior year.
Up to 90 juniors and seniors 
will be accepted into the ma-jor, Moorhouse said. He said he thinks UF will ﬁ  ll all seats within ﬁ  ve years.
“We want to have a really good 
student-to-teacher ratio,” he said.
The college is still in the pro-
cess of hiring a director for the program, he said. 
The new major will be adver-
tised at the freshman convocation in Fall and through student orga-nizations.
Frank Talty, a UF health sci-ence senior, said he thinks some students from his major will switch to public health.
“There is a lot more news 
surrounding public health,” the 21-year-old said. “Public health has always been a big issue, but it’s becoming an even bigger deal now.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
UF to oﬀ  er new major in public health beginning next Fall
It has taken more than a year to createSEE PAKISTAN,  PAGE 4 SEE MEMORIAL,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Three Minute Thesis Final 
Competition
The UF Graduate School will host the third-annual Three Minute Thesis (3MT) compe-
tition today at 2 p.m. in the 
Reitz Union Auditorium. The competition challenges doc-toral students to present their dissertations to a non-technical audience in three minutes or less. Along with helping gradu-ate students hone their com-munication and presentation 
skills, winners will be awarded 
cash prizes. This competition is open to the public. For more information, please visit gradu-ateschool.ufl.edu/about-us/events/3mt.
NASA Speakers Coming to UF
Today in the Computer Science 
and Engineering Building, 
Room E119, at 6:15 p.m., Larry Fineberg and Justin Treptow from NASA will speak about the Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array (NuSTAR) and systems engineering. Larry Fineberg works in launch ser-vices systems, while Justin 
Treptow works in the flight 
design branch. They will share their stories on some of the things they have worked on at NASA and the challenges they overcame. There will be food and drinks at the event, so come hear these amaz-ing speakers, as well as get to 
know other students from the 
Small Satellite Design Club.
‘He Named Me Malala’ 
ScreeningGators for Asha (Asha UFlorida) will be screening the movie “He Named Me Malala” about the Nobel Peace Prize-winning 
Malala Yousafzai today at 7 
p.m. at the Reitz Union. The movie will raise awareness about the need for education of the underprivileged and back-ward children — a cause that Gators for Asha works for every day. Admission is free for this event, and please help spread 
the word about the movie!
Toastmasters dues up for re-
newal
Elena and William will be col-lecting payment for dues re-newal and for new members at today’s meeting. The dead-line is Friday. This is a critical 
deadline.
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, located at 970 Natural Area Drive. Everyone is wel-comed to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For de-tails about Talking Gators, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook group page. 
“The mission of Toastmasters 
is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empow-ered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence and personal growth.”
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 128
HIGH  82° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
THE CENTER WILL 
REOPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
IN DECEMBER.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Unless you’re with UF gymnas-
tics, the Stephen C. O’Connell Cen-
ter is off limits.
The center’s bleachers are being 
torn apart and ripped out to make way for about 10,500 chairbacks, Lynda Reinhart, the director of the 
center, wrote in an email. On Feb. 
13, the center passed capacity with more than 12,000 people attending the Alabama vs. UF home basketball game.
The center, which is undergoing 
multiple renovations, will reopen to 
the public in December, she said. 
The renovations, which cost $64.5 million, will have 668 premium seats and a premium club lounge, 
according to Alligator archives. Pre-
mium ticket holders can purchase beer and wine at men’s basketball games.
“The gymnastics team and staff 
will have access to the gymnastics studio and ofﬁ  ces until April 14, but the building is closed to all other stu-dents, staff or visitors,” she said.
The pool closed after the 2016 
U.S. Collegiate Synchronized Cham-pionships ﬁ  nished March 26, she said.
For Erika Fassler and the Florida 
Club Swimming and Diving, the ren-
ovations mean scrambling to ﬁ  nd 
time to practice before competitions.
“We’re all UF students, and that’s 
supposed to be one of (our) resourc-
es,” the 22-year-old UF health sci-
ence senior said, “so the fact that we don’t have that is a pretty big thing.”
Fassler, the women’s co-captain 
of the club, said they practiced at the 
center four days a week.
“This is deﬁ  nitely very signiﬁ  -
cant for us,” Fassler said. “We can’t 
just build a pool out of thin air.”
@melissagomez
mgomez@alligator.orgO’Dome closes, starts demolition
LOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
One of nine passengers injured in a head-on col-
lision Sunday has died.
Steven Morton, 6, was pronounced dead at UF 
Health Shands Hospital following the crash. Four-
month-old Faith Swilley is currently in critical condi-
tion, and all other injuries are non-life-threatening, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias wrote in an email.
As two cars headed south on State Road 26 on 
Sunday afternoon, Taylor Swilley, 20, of Micanopy, Florida, drove his Kia Sorento northbound.
Swilley swerved into the southbound lane and 
collided head-on with a Toyota Corolla.
Inside the Corolla sat Jade Albert and Steven 
Morton, both 6, and Shayannae Morton, 8.
Gainesville resident Elouise Smith, 75, drove the 
Corolla.
Swilley then collided with a Scion driven by Put-
nam County, Florida, resident April Canipe, 33.
All three cars veered off the roadway.His wife, Elizabeth Swilley, 21, and two daugh-
ters, 4-month-old Faith and 2-year-old Aubrey, were all passengers in his car.
It is unknown what caused Swilley to veer into 
the oncoming lane, Tobias said. GPD is currently conducting a trafﬁ  c homicide investigation.
“Emotions are ﬂ  aring and my family and I are try-
ing to recover both mentally and physically,” Swil-ley wrote in a text message.
In photos released by Gainesville Fire Rescue, the 
Corolla and Scion are mangled, with the hoods bent back toward shattered windshields.
The crash took place near Gum Root Park, Mi-
chael Cowart, the GFR operations chief, wrote in an email.
“In a head on collision, the impact is twice that of 
you hitting a stationary object,” he said. “Two cars colliding at 55 miles per hour is equal to one car hit-
ting a stationary object at 110 miles per hour.”
Cowart said all nine passengers were sent to UF 
Health Shands Hospital to be treated, noting that 
seat belts and car seats saved the lives of the surviv-
ing passengers.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgSix-year-old boy dead after crash Courtesy to the Alligator
An excavator rips out a set of bleachers in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center as part of a $64.5 million reno-
vation that will replace the seating with 10,500 chairbacks, 668 premium seats and a premium club lounge. 
She said more people showed up than she 
expected.
“It just exploded from nothing,” she said. 
“I think people cared because they were so 
surprised.”
Some of her family was in Lahore the day 
of the attack for a wedding, she said. 
The bomb went off as they drove to dinner 
a mile away from the park. 
Although her family was uninjured, she watched CNN for about 12 hours trying to hear news from Lahore.
“They saw the ambulances and all the car-
nage of it,” she said. “In the U.S. there was nothing, there was absolutely nothing.”
Shumaila Asad’s friend was a block away 
from the attack. 
He was uninjured, but she said she feared 
for family and friends in the country she grew up in.
“It’s like my people; it’s my family,” said 
Asad, who graduated from UF in 2015. “Even though they were attacking Christians, it’s still my people.”
She wore a green and white hat embroi-
dered with “PAK,” which stands for both 
Pakistan and purity. 
She said she came out to the vigil to pray 
for the victims.
“It just brings tears to my eyes when I 
think about all the kids,” the 24-year-old said. 
“You feel for the families and the mothers. Part of my family was taken away.”
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgBy Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Garrison Keillor sang a hymn 
and made sexual jokes in the Phil-
lips Center for the Performing Arts on Monday night.
The 73-year-old NPR radio host 
performed a variety show for a crowd of more than 1,000 people, where he recounted his life and ca-reer while cracking jokes that led 
the audience and ushers in laughs.
His visit was sponsored by UF 
performing arts. Keillor was paid 
to perform, but his compensation is confidential, said Brian Jose, the UF performing arts director.
“What I can say is that no 
two shows are alike,” Jose said. 
“Whether you’re an NPR fan or not, 
he’s a character and a legend.”
The parking lot was full 30 min-
utes before the lights went down, but that wasn’t a problem for the three retirement center vans right outside the front doors.
Anthony Thomas, an employee at Oak Hammock at UF, said speak-
ers like Keillor always mean a full 
bus.
“They love it,” he said. “Any 
night of the week.”
Keillor, dressed in a white suit 
garnished with a red tie and shoes, sang his opening monologue and followed it with a comedy rou-tine, which included everything he 
didn’t have “back in the day,” such 
as spreadable butter and car seat warmers.
He compared seat warmers to 
“falling in love all over again.”
About 30 minutes in, his pianist, 
Richard Dworsky, joined him on-stage to accompany his songs and sonnets, which ranged from rhym-
ing lines about life on his family 
farm to one-liners, woven among arpeggios.
His own rendition of “Pass me 
not, O gentle Savior” was followed a few songs later by a risque song about an opera singer in bed and then a song written for his daughter.
After an hour of music, he re-turned to his stand-up routine.
“You can’t be remembered for 
radio, because radio is self-erasing,” he said.
Molly Brennan, a senior at Buch-
holz High School and future Florida Gator, attended the evening with her dad Tim, a UF alumnus.
She said she listens to NPR in 
the car with her dad, who has been 
a fan of Keillor’s program since he 
was a student at UF.
“I used to love him,” Tim Bren-
nan said. “My wife’s not a fan so I drug her (Molly) here with me.”
A few minutes before the end 
of the show, 74-year-old Barry Gui-nagh sat, watching the final comedy act on a screen in the lobby as he 
got ready to leave.
Guinagh, a Gainesville resident 
since 1968, said he has been a fan 
of Keillor’s for 40 years.
“The program’s too long,” he 
said. “It’s time for bed.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
Molly Donovan / Alligator Staff
Seventy-three-year-old NPR radio host Garrison Keillor performs 
songs, recites poetry and cracks jokes to a crowd of more than 1,000 in the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Monday night. “You can’t be remembered for radio, because radio is self-erasing, ” he said.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Zubin Kapadia, a 21 year-old UF history senior, leads a group of Muslim UF community members in prayer honoring those killed dur-ing the terrorist attack in Pakistan on March 28. About 120 people attended the Monday night candlelight vigil on Turlington Plaza.
NPR host sings, jokes at Phillips Center on Monday
PAKISTAN,  from pg 1About 120 students attended to light candles, pray
She expected to start a new lecture with her 
students, who instead wanted to talk about 
Sunday’s shooting. Some were confused as to why police shot the teenager when he showed signs of being suicidal, Maguire said.
“They were all very, very crushed — very 
crushed by the whole thing,” she said.
Several of her students, who are mostly 
black, personally knew Dentmond.
For Maguire, a language arts teacher at 
Kanapaha Middle School, Dentmond’s death and the topic of systemic racism are new class-room discussions. She said a 14-year-old girl recalled the first day of school last year, when 
she walked into an advanced science class and 
the teacher immediately scoffed.
“The assumption was you’re a little black 
kid — you’re not in advanced science,” Ma-guire said.
Fifteen minutes into Maguire’s class Mon-
day morning, most of her students cried, she said. They were angry and confused. After reading about the shooting, Maguire said she 
came to the disturbing realization that law en-
forcement officers followed their training when they shot Dentmond.
Maguire said Sunday’s shooting is part of 
the larger issue of systemic oppression in black communities.
“When you peel back the layers, is this rac-
ist? F— yeah. F— yeah, it’s racist,” she said.
•   •   •
Jennifer Appel, Dentmond’s adoptive moth-
er, held a purple and white bouquet at the vigil.
She stood alongside four of Dentmond’s 
siblings and his cousin. Appel said she was taking the loss one day at a time. In the mean-
time, community support is welcome, she said.
“It means a lot,” she said. “The number-
one goal is to make sure it doesn’t happen to 
anybody else’s child.”
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgMEMORIAL,  from pg 1Church 
leaders spoke 
of unityTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
The Heavener School of Busi-
ness will get a new associate dean 
and director.
Brian Ray, the associate dean 
and director of the school, will 
step down at the end of Spring. 
A new director will be appointed during Summer C, said John Kraft, the dean of the Warrington Col-lege of Business.
Ray said he will continue to 
teach as a lecturer for the school’s leadership and ethics classes. He has served as the associate dean 
and director for 17 years and has 
always wanted to teach.
“Now is the right time to pur-
sue that passion and joy,” he said. “I am really excited about teach-ing leadership and ethics.”
Ray has improved the college 
by starting Warrington Welcome, the introductory class for new business students, Kraft said. He also began requiring business stu-dents to study abroad.
“He has done a fantastic job,” 
said Kraft. “We will miss him.”
Kraft said he’s appointed a 
search committee to ﬁ  nd a re-placement for Ray. The committee is only selecting from candidates already at UF.
“The new director will be lead-
ing the program and hopefully 
continue improving the program,” 
Kraft said.
Ray said he’s looking forward 
to learning who the committee se-lects.
“Any time you have a transi-
tion in leadership positions, you have an opportunity for some-one to bring in new ideas,” he 
said. “That can only be a positive 
thing.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld 
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgUF business school 
searches for new deanTHE STUDENTS WILL 
BE HONORED IN KISSIMMEE, 
FLORIDA  ON THURSDAY.
By Madeleine Haist
Alligator Contributing Writer
Three UF landscape architecture students 
will be honored for winning all categories of 
a landscape-design competition Thursday.
The students will be honored in Kissim-
mee, Florida, said Glenn Acomb, a senior 
lecturer in UF’s department of landscape ar-
chitecture. While a UF student usually wins 
one category of the Florida Association of 
Native Nurseries: Real Florida Landscapes 
Design Competition, this is the ﬁ  rst time UF 
students have won all three.
Students submitted drawings or digi-
tal designs to create a landscape in one of 
Florida’s regions: North, South and Central, 
he said. They listed native plants they would 
use for their design in an Excel spreadsheet.
Designs had to be 85 feet by 60 feet, 
Acomb said. Students competed against 
other students and professional landscape 
architects.
“I am very proud,” he said. “They are 
competing against professionals who do this day in and day out and know the plants, I 
would suggest, more intimately than the stu-dents.”Acomb said he thinks students did well 
because they gave detailed presentations. His students provided additional drawings and images of their landscapes.
Collin Bowie, a UF landscape architecture 
junior, won the South Florida category with his park design, called “Floral Matrix.”
His design focused on stormwater man-
agement, the 20-year-old said. The design redirected runoff water from buildings to go to retaining ponds.
He said he wanted to incorporate build-
ings around the landscape into his design.
“Being in landscape architecture, we don’t 
talk about buildings too much,” he said.
Lea Kindt, a landscape architecture grad-
uate student, won the North Florida category with her residential backyard design called “Garden of Seasons.”
She said her submission took about three 
weeks to complete.
“I am from a northern climate, so season-
ality and plants changing is something I ﬁ  nd very special, and I think it’s lacking here,” the 26-year-old said. “I tried to focus my de-
sign on accentuating the seasonal plants, like 
blooming trees and wildﬂ  owers.”
Acomb, who’s retiring after this semester, 
said he hopes future professors have stu-
dents compete.
“I certainly hope and expect frankly that 
someone will carry on,” he said.  UF landscape architecture dominates state competition
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left, Florida Association of Native Nurseries: Real Florida Landscapes Design Competition winners, Collin Bowie, the South Florida award winner; Crystal Sim-mons, the Central Florida award winner; and Lea Kindt, the North Florida award win-ner, pose for a photo with their winning designs for a Florida landscape.
By Olivia Ooten
Alligator Contributing Writer
This weekend, students will be able to 
paddle through pollution.
For the ﬁ  rst time, the Florida Springs In-
stitute will offer guided paddling tours of 
the Santa Fe River as part of the third an-nual Give Springs a Break event. The tours are designed to give visitors a better look 
at how the springs are being affected by 
pollution.
Scientists and other experts will speak 
before and after the tour about the prob-
lems facing the Florida springs and how 
people can help.“Students can see ﬁ  rsthand all of the is-
sues and topics they have learned during the morning lecture series,” said Heather Culp, the institute’s associate director.
The tours will take place Saturday after-
noon as part of the three-day event, which is only available to the ﬁ  rst 60 students who register by Thursday. The event costs $50 for the weekend and $25 for students 
who only attend Saturday.
“People don’t realize that we won’t have 
the luxury of our springs later if we don’t take care of them now,” Emily Taylor, a UF 
environmental science senior, said.
The 22-year-old said she will attend the 
event due to her passion for the springs and involvement with the institute as an 
intern.
Culp said she is excited for students to 
experience the beauty of the springs.
“We always work harder to protect the 
things we love, and it’s impossible not to 
love our springs once you have experi-enced them,” Culp said.Paddling tours to help educate participants about pollutionCAMPUS
RUFFIN’ IT
Sarvar Nasirov, a 21-year-old UF junior, plays with his 8-year-
old German Shepherd, Baron, on the Plaza of the Americas on Monday. Nasirov said the dog is his best friend. “I can talk with people, but I’d rather be with my dog all the time, ” he said.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
They will take place SaturdayThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Myths Un-Mythed: 
invulnerability
We live in a world full of myths. Never mind the 
tales of full-grown, orphaned men laying waste to our city streets in ﬁ  ghting over who can pull off 
the better tights-and-cape combo, or the tales of 
bewildered country leaders decrying man-induced 
climate change a hoax by bringing a snowball onto the Sen-ate ﬂ  oor during a committee hearing. (Wait, that might have 
actually happened last year with a certain Sen. Jim Inhofe, 
R-Okla.)
No, what we’re highlighting is the collection of certain un-
truths commonly accepted as true without further investiga-tion, such as the widespread myth of invulnerability. This 
myth should be quite familiar to us all. It’s the mental check-
list many of us unconsciously run through: Yes, bad things happen in this world, but nothing should really happen to us, right? It’s also inherent in the assumption one will live a long, 
thorough life and die peacefully from old age — unless you’re 
like Kanye West, hung up on the whole immortality thing.
Is it bad to bank on such a long, prosperous life? No. But 
the potential danger therein is not seriously considering just how fragile our lives truly are. In the few short days since we 
discussed the attacks in Belgium and Turkey, two more at-
tacks of Islamic terror devastated innocents: an Islamic State attack at a soccer ceremony in Iskandariya, Iraq, and a Tali-ban attack on a major park in Lahore, Pakistan. Such attacks 
seem “way over there,” but they’re really not so far removed: 
a number of our community’s students are from Iraq and Pak-istan, and some even have families currently living in Lahore.
As for our home turf, just last Thursday morning a former 
UF student and son of a professor died in a motorcycle crash 
on Archer Road. Moreover, a three-car accident Sunday after-
noon on State Road 26 injured nine people and left a 6-year-old dead.
Our point in addressing all this isn’t to bring you down, 
but rather to illustrate just how fragile this life can be and how invulnerability truly is a myth. We understand that by virtue of being students, many of us have our eyes set on the future: get this internship, apply to that grad program, settle down in 10 or 15 years after we’re established in our careers. 
Despite what the Snapchat stories or YouTube binge sessions 
suggest, planning for the future is what we students do. But we urge you to live in the now, in the moment.
At the risk of sounding preachy, this life is too precious 
to be taken for granted. Think about it: This day, March 29, 2016, is just another day to most of us, but we could easily ﬁ  ll the rest of the paper with the names of those who recently lost their chances of arriving at this moment. At the end of the day, time — in all its uncertainty and mystery — is all we 
have. It’s the only guarantee.
So please, live and love to live. Walk to your classeswith 
pride; help your friend out with calculus; respond to your 
mom’s 11 unchecked voice messages; enjoy that frappe mo-
cha whipped venti triple-shot espresso vanilla — whatever 
you get from Starbucks — and maybe even smile back at your secret admirer across the classroom. Whatever your prefer-ences, make the most out of life’s moments: You never know how long you’ll be lucky enough to cherish and experience 
them.Should you cut smut like “slut”? It’s a rut
Yes, I am alive. Despite my hilarious-
ly controversial column last week, I emerged from the backlash unscathed. I don’t take the criticism personally — I ﬁ  nd it hard to take offense from peas-
ants. Despite this, the folks who responded negatively were aggressive. I don’t feel com-fortable walking through campus anymore; I’m afraid I’ll be assaulted by a radical fol-lower of the #StopMichael movement. So, I’ve shaved my beard and placed a paper bag over my head to hide from potential assassins. 
Then again, if their weapons are as strong as their argu-
ments, I’ll be OK.
Let’s talk about profanity. I want to ﬁ  gure out its place 
in art and in comedy. Profanity has done many wonder-ful things for stand-up comedy, and stand-up has in turn done wonderful things for profanity. Back in the day, stand-up comedy thrived on profanity; television and ra-dio avoided profanity like the plague, so stand-up carved its niche with it and gained momentum as a medium for social change. It got to a point where comedians began to address profanity in their routines ... routinely.
Throughout the early 1960s, Lenny Bruce was ar-
rested for obscenity in his stand-up performances; his routines incorporated the word “cocksucker” and the homophone-ish-ness of “cum” and “come.” His arrests caused an uproar among contemporary artists, and co-medians such as Richard Pryor and George Carlin car-ried his torch of social change into the 1970s. In 1978, Carlin’s “Seven Words You Can Never Say on Televi-sion” incited the Federal Communications Commission v. Paciﬁ  ca Foundation decision, which gave the FCC ﬂ  ex-
ibility in censoring “indecent” material. Carlin’s routine 
used the “seven dirty words” — shit, piss, fuck, cunt, cocksucker, motherfucker and tits — to comment on the interpretation of language.
And language has always been tricky in that regard. 
“Idiot” is a common insult, but in the early 20th cen-tury, an idiot had an IQ of 30 or lower by deﬁ  nition. It was an intellectual disability, analogous to the word “retard” today. Yet “retard” hasn’t entered the same lexicon as “idiot.” Similarly, the word “bad” descended from two potential deﬁ  nitions: a hermaphrodite or rape. So which 
one of today’s words will drop its dictionary 
deﬁ  nition for the connotation this generation’s assigned it next? In this way, Louis C.K. and Carlin have discussed the use of words such as “faggot” and “retard” in today’s culture.
Comedy has been a bastion for profanity, 
but what place does profanity have in art? Many words can’t be broadcast without warning or censorship. Is that ﬁ  ne? I don’t know. I kind of like how we have certain 
words that are locked away for emergency. I also dis-
agree with most cases of censorship.
Despite this, as a storyteller I avoid profanity. Too 
often, I see novice writers use naughty words as per-formance enhancers — writers will rely too heavily on profanity to inject emotion into their pieces. There are so many other ways an artist can convey tension, so why rely on profanity? Conversely, profanity is one of many tools on an artist’s belt, so why can’t it be used alongside 
other artistic elements?
Is it a big deal to censor profanity because we have 
so many other outlets through which to convey a point? 
Or is it a big deal to censor profanity because it stiﬂ  es our ability to express something very speciﬁ  c? Would a universal freedom to use profanity undermine the intent of profanity?
I avoid profanity because I know the use of profan-
ity deters a chunk of my audience, particularly children. 
But, as an artist, I feel I shouldn’t compromise my stance 
on profanity to please a crowd. So, I don’t feel like a hypocrite, but I probably am. Help.
Is profanity good? Does profanity imply censorship? 
Can we or should we ever remove either? Fuck if I know.
Michael Smith is a UCF telecommunication senior 
citizen. His column is an illusion and ceases to appear at all.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
College is already hard 
enough as it is. Why would you even think 
about something like a 
student credit card to 
add to the number of things you have to be responsible for? Well, 
just like your degree will be a 
part of you long after you gradu-ate, so will your credit score. A student credit card can be your ticket to graduating with an excellent credit score, 
which will leave you with plenty of handy 
ﬁ  nancial options.
Just like your grades are a reﬂ  ection 
of how well you’re doing in your class-
es, your credit score is a grade on how 
well you pay back money that you bor-row. When you spend with a credit card, you are spending a credit card company’s money and paying it back at the end of 
the month. If you are responsible and pay 
back the money you spent on time, then your credit history will reﬂ  ect that you are ﬁ  nancially responsible, and you will be on 
your way to increasing your score.
Why do I need an excellent credit 
score?
This is a great question, because you 
probably don’t need an excellent credit 
score right now. But once you graduate, you may want to apply for a mortgage or 
get a loan for a car, and your credit score 
will come into play. If you have no credit history or a poor credit score, you could be denied when you ask to borrow money. 
Or, if you are approved, your interest rate 
could be sky-high, and it will cost you a 
lot more money than it should.
What are my choices?
The best choice, as far as credit cards 
for students, is any credit card. It doesn’t have to be a student credit card; most 
students do not have any credit history, which can make qualifying for 
a credit card difﬁ  cult. Student credit cards cater to people who 
are in college that might not have 
a credit history. Therefore, they can’t get approved for a regular credit card. Student credit cards 
usually come with a low credit 
limit and tools to help their us-ers use them responsibly. If you 
already have some sort of a credit history and can get approved for a regular credit 
card, then go ahead and get one. A great 
free option that matches you with target-ed credit card offers based on your credit proﬁ  le is the Card Match Program. This 
way, you can see what cards you are most 
likely to get approved for and avoid just applying blindly.
Be responsible:It’s important to note using a credit 
card to establish credit doesn’t mean you have to spend a lot. As a student, you can just put a couple tanks of gas on your credit card a month and pay it off on time 
(and hopefully in full to avoid interest), 
and you’ll be on your way to a great credit score. If you miss payments and rack up interest and debt, you will be doing major damage to your credit history. You will 
actually be worse off than not getting a 
credit card at all. Use a student credit card only to spend money you know you have the funds available to pay back at the end 
of each month.
A great way to look at a credit card is 
to view it like a debit card. You wouldn’t 
swipe your debit card if you knew you didn’t have enough money in your ac-
count. So don’t use your student credit 
card if you don’t have the money to pay it back. Being a college student means you have to spend money for everyday things 
that you need. Utilize a credit card to do 
just that, and you will be on your way to an excellent credit score and have all the ﬁ  nancial options you will need available to you when you graduate.
Matthew Coan is the owner of the 
Gainesville-based ﬁ  nancial education website casavvy.com. Contact him at info@casavvy.com with any ﬁ  nancial 
questions you may have.Thinking about a student credit card? Guest column
Matthew Coan
Speaking Out
“A student credit card 
can be your ticket to 
graduating with an 
excellent credit score.”Hello, Gators!
My name is Susan 
Webster, and I am so excited to be your Stu-
dent Body president-
elect alongside Student Body Vice President-Elect Brendon 
Jonassaint and Student Body 
Treasurer-Elect Kishan Patel. UF’s continuing rise to top-10 status as a public institution presents an exciting opportunity for our Student Gov-
ernment, which I plan to ensure is inclu-
sive, transparent and a vital part of the student experience. For that reason, I am happy to announce that applications for 
the executive branch of Student Govern-
ment are now open!
During my tenure at UF, I have worked 
alongside so many student leaders with steadfast passion and tireless dedication 
to impacting the campus community, and 
I am looking for similarly minded individ-uals who want to ensure a bright future for the Gator Nation. 
To accomplish this goal, I need hard-
working individuals who all want to make a lasting difference. I need ideas that re-ﬂ  ect the innovation and creativity that consistently moves our great university 
toward preeminence.
There are more than 40 positions avail-
able in the executive branch during the 
2016-2017 term with a variety of roles and 
responsibilities, including, but not limited 
to, diversity affairs, community service, leadership development, governmental af-fairs and so much more. 
Student Government not only provides 
ways and means to grow personally as a leader: It provides a campus community that future generations of students and all generations of alumni may look at with 
pride.
Under my supervision as Student Body 
president are agency heads and executive 
secretaries. Agency heads are responsible for initiatives connecting students to each 
other, to alumni, to different levels of government and even to celebri-
ties. Ofﬁ  ces include the Accent Speakers Bureau, Student Gov-
ernment Productions, Action SG 
and External Affairs. Executive secretaries are responsible for working as my advisers on a 
wide range of policy topics, in-
cluding Academic Affairs, Satel-lite Affairs and Health Affairs.
Under the supervision of Vice Presi-
dent-Elect Brendon Jonassaint is the SG 
cabinet, which coordinates events and 
programming meant to impact, inform and inspire every Gator. Cabinet chairs coordinate the individual divisions of the 
cabinet, while cabinet directors produce 
events relating to a speciﬁ  c campus inter-
est, such as community service or housing affairs.
Applications for SG executive positions 
can be found at sg.uﬂ  .edu/applications.
Applications are due this Friday, April 
1, by 5 p.m. If you have any questions about this process, please contact my chief of staff, Haley Smith, at haley.m.smith@
uﬂ  .edu.
I look forward to meeting so many of 
you and hearing about your ideas to move 
SG and the Gator Nation forward. Thank 
you, and Go Gators!
Susan Webster is the UF Student Body 
president-elect.From your Student Body president-
elect: SG applications are openGuest column
Susan Webster
Speaking Out
“There are more than 
40 positions available 
in the executive 
branch during the 
2016-2017 term with 
a variety of roles and 
responsibilities.”8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
CAMPUS
PRIDE AWARNESS MONTH IS 
HOSTING THE EVENT.
By Andrea Benaim
Alligator Contributing Writer
An event today is hoping to bring together UF’s 
Greek and LGBTQ+ communities.
Pride Awareness Month will host Behind the Let-
ters at 6 p.m. to bridge the gap between the LBGTQ+ 
community and UF’s Greek-letter organizations, Rachel 
Eisen, the director of programming for PAM, said. 
About ﬁ  ve students will discuss their opinions and 
experiences as members of Greek-letter organizations 
who identify as LGBTQ+.
The panel, held in McCarty Hall C, Room 100, aims 
to bring together the two identities, Colleen Davis, the event director, said.
“The idea of Behind the Letters is to say that we’re not just our Greek letters or our LGBT letters, we are all multifaceted individuals with our own stories to tell,” she said. “We are not just our chapter or just our ori-entation.”
A moderator will ask the panel questions about ex-
periences within the Greek council and chapter, she said.
Eisen, a member of the LGBTQ+ community, said 
she will represent her Panhellenic chapter on the panel. She plans to talk about the support she has received from Alpha Epsilon Phi.
The UF advertising and Spanish senior said she 
came up with the idea last year.
There is nothing combining Greek culture with 
people who are members of the LGBTQ+ community, Eisen, 22, said.
“I wanted to create this event to bridge that gap and 
erase some of that fear and start to put in some com-fort,” Eisen said.  Panel to discuss Greek life, LGBTQ+By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF is honoring its graduate stu-
dents this week.
The ﬁ  rst Graduate Student Ap-
preciation Week will run through Friday to honor the students and 
the research they do, said Tyisha 
Hathorn, the director for the Ofﬁ  ce of Graduate Minority Programs. The week includes a research day, professional development day, un-dergraduate day and graduate life day.
The Ofﬁ  ce of Graduate Minori-
ty Programs has planned the week 
since Summer 2015, she said.
“FIU (Florida International Uni-
versity) and FSU (Florida State 
University) have done it in pre-vious years,” she said. “We have awesome graduate students and we want to appreciate them.”
Erin Rice, the coordinator for 
the ofﬁ  ce, said in addition to ap-
preciating the students, the gradu-
ate school wanted to highlight the research they’ve done.
UF President Kent Fuchs will 
speak at today’s research event to share his appreciation for gradu-ate and professional students at UF. Research Day will begin in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom at 9 
a.m.
Britney Shefﬁ  eld, a UF biomed-
ical engineering graduate student, 
said graduate students work sev-eral years for their degrees.
“We don’t really reap the ben-
eﬁ  ts of it until we get a degree,” the 25-year-old said. “I hope that we can understand that we are ap-preciated by the university for all of the work that we actually do.”  UF hosts grad-student 
appreciation week By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
A group of ﬁ  ve Alachua Coun-
ty professionals will soon board a 
plane to Washington, D.C. to dis-cuss the prevalence of inmates with mental illnesses in American jails.
The Council of State Govern-
ments will host the ﬁ  rst-ever Step-ping Up Initiative from April 17 to April 19, according to a press re-lease.
The trip is scheduled about a 
month after Gov. Rick Scott signed House Bill 0439: Mental Health Services in the Criminal Justice 
System, establishing future mental 
health court programs for people who might otherwise be jailed for crimes related to mental illnesses or substance abuse disorders.
Despite local services, the num-ber of mentally ill inmates in Ala-
chua County prisons and jails in-
creased 35 percent in less than a decade, said Stuart Wegener, an employee for Alachua County court services.
He said many people belong in 
psychiatric hospitals rather than in jails or prisons.
“The summit is a great oppor-
tunity to build on the work we are already doing,” he said.
The county will be represented 
by Robert Hutchinson, the Alachua County commission chair; Maj. Charlie Lee, the director of the Ala-chua County Jail; Peria Duncan, the director of the Alachua County Department of Court Services; Leah 
Vail, the forensic program director 
for Meridian Behavioral Health-Care, Inc. and Terrie Mullin, the president of Gainesville’s National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Mullin said she felt even greater 
hope for the future after being in-
vited to the summit.
“It’s just awful,” she said. “Fam-
ilies have tried to get them (the in-
mates) out, but there weren’t ser-vices available.”
Gainesville is a leader in the 
movement to improve mental health care services to existing and would-be inmates, Mullin said, but 
there is a lot to be learned.
Mullin’s employer, the National 
Alliance on Mental Illness, lists 
resources such as the UF Health Shands Psychiatric Hospital, Alach-ua County Crisis Center, Gainesville Opportunity Center and the Depres-sion and Bipolar Support Alliance on its website.
“I’m excited to shine a light on 
this,” she said.  
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org  Alachua mental health initiative in D.C.
UPCOMING EVENTS
TODAY:
 Research Day
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom from 9 a.m. to 1:15 p.m.
 Three Minute Thesis Finals
 Reitz Union Auditorium 
from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
WEDNESDAY:
 Professional Development
 Reitz Union Grand Ballroom 
from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
 PhD Movie
 Reitz Union Auditorium 
from 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
THURSDAY: 
 Undergraduate Day
 Reitz Union Grand Chamber 
Room from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 Ice Cream Social
 Reitz Union from 3 p.m. to 5 
p.m.
FRIDAY:  
 Graduate Life Day: The Ultimate Field Day Experience
 Plaza of the Americas from 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m.Five representatives will attendTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Food and Drug Adminis-
tration recently imposed stricter 
requirements for the labeling of opioid medication, but how it will affect misuse among students is currently unclear.
The abuse of opioid medications 
has grown exponentially through-out the past 10 years, according to an FDA press release.
The change requires a boxed 
warning that details the risks of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and death, according to the release. 
The goal is to teach patients 
how to balance pain management with the health risks.  
University Police spokesman Of-
ficer Wayne Clark said the univer-sity does not see many instances of opioid abuse on campus because 
98 percent of substance abuse is-
sues are alcohol-related.
Still, there are students who use 
pain medications recreationally.
A 22-year-old UF public rela-
tions student who wished to re-main anonymous due to the illegal-
ity of the drug use, said she started 
taking Xanax, an anti-anxiety med-
ication, twice a week without a 
prescription a few months ago.
The woman said she goes to 
friends for the medication, which she says helps her combat stress 
and improve sleep.
She said the new FDA warnings 
won’t likely change whether stu-
dents decide to use opioids.
“I think college students will ig-
nore warnings,” she said.
Other students start using opi-
oids to treat an injury, later find-ing themselves addicted, said Joan 
Scully, the coordinator of alcohol 
and other drugs services at UF’s 
Counseling and Wellness Center.
The Back on TRAC (Treatment, 
Responsibility and Accountabil-ity on Campus) program, offered 
through the CWC, offers individual 
and group counseling, along with 
drug screenings, Scully said.
“Sometimes students will want 
screenings just to keep them ac-
countable,” she said.
Scully said an average of 20 stu-
dents undergo counseling in the 
program each semester, and about 
15 students take the substance 
abuse seminar.
“Students come in all the time 
with substance abuse issues,” Scul-
ly said.UF community, students speak on opioid drug misuse
LOW-INCOME GAINESVILLE 
RESIDENTS CAN GET FREE 
HEALTH SCREENINGS.
By Paris Olkes
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s College of Pharmacy is providing 
more free health screenings at its annual 
health fair on Friday.
For the first time, the college will partner 
with UF’s HealthStreet to give free health screenings to Gainesville’s low-income resi-dents, said Vicki Piazza, the program’s man-ager. 
The event will be from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. at 
HealthStreet, located at 2401 SW Archer Rd.
UF’s Student National Pharmaceutical As-
sociation paired with HealthStreet to provide more screenings, medical counseling and nu-trition education, said Lacey Nilles, the asso-ciation’s vice president.
Screenings will test for HIV, blood pres-
sure, blood sugar and cholesterol, she said.
“Even if you go to the doctor every year, 
you won’t get tested for a lot of these things,” Nilles said.
Pharmacists will also be available for med-
ication reviews, where guests can ask ques-tions about their current medications, Nilles said. Those who attend will also learn about topics including alcohol and tobacco use, im-munizations, asthma and allergies.
Jack Guerci, a UF first-year pharmacy 
graduate student, said he and other pharma-cy students will help with health screenings. He’ll provide blood pressure and cholesterol testing.
“This could be crucial for individuals to 
learn something brand new in terms of their overall health status,” the 21-year-old said.UF HealthStreet, College of 
Pharmacy host health fairTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ON PATROL AT THE CAPITOL
Capitol Police officers secure the Capitol Visitor’s Center on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., on 
Monday, which was closed to tourists following a shooting. Capitol Police officers say a man was shot by police after drawing a weapon at a U.S. Capitol checkpoint. He was taken to the hospital.
By Madison Behm
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mike Myers will teach Gainesville resi-
dents how to repurpose and upcycle house-
hold items on Wednesday.
Myers, a co-founder of The Repurpose 
Project, will lead a Lunch and Learn event 
from noon to 1 p.m. at the Alachua County 
Administration Building, located at 12 SE First St., said Rachel Wayne, the program develop-ment specialist for the Alachua County Office of Sustainability.
Guests will use items such as orange juice 
containers, paper towel tubes, egg cartons and coffee-creamer caps to make functional household items, according to a press release.
“Once you learn how, you’ll wonder how 
you ever did without it,” Wayne said.
She said repurposing can reduce the com-munity’s energy consumption and save resi-dents’ money.
On Wednesday, she said, all attendees will 
have something to keep.
“Sometimes they take home items,” she 
said. “Sometimes it’s practical knowledge. Sometimes it’s a little bit of both.”
The Lunch and Learn series started in No-
vember and has since held seven sessions, Wayne said. Sessions on gardening and solar power are scheduled for April.
“We operate under a principle of ‘walk the 
talk,’” she said. “We can put out all of the in-formation we want on how citizens can save energy, but it doesn’t make a difference if we aren’t showing them how.”
Megan Sweeney, a 20-year-old marine sci-
ence sophomore, said the event is a new way to have fun and learn valuable lessons about conservation.
“Plus, it’s a great study break,” she said.Residents to make crafts, 
learn about sustainabilityBy Melissa Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Hillel will give back to others 
with PB&J sandwiches at the first 
Mitzvah Madness today at 6 p.m.
Participants will make about 
250 peanut butter and jelly sand-wiches, which will be donated to the homeless individuals living at Grace Marketplace.
Teams will compete to see who 
can make the most sandwiches, said Sabina Braverman, the non-profit management intern for UF Hillel in charge of organizing the 
event.
Braverman, a psychology senior 
at UF, said her inspiration came 
from basketball’s NCAA March Madness.
“I was just thinking about how 
we can look at some of the things going on in March, like March Madness, and combine that with engagement in the community,” 
the 22-year-old said.
Sandwich materials will be sup-plied through donations from par-
ticipants and a $500 grant Hillel received from the Jewish Council of North Central Florida, she said.
Braverman said she hopes those 
making sandwiches will give back to others in the future.
“I just hope it’s a really fun 
event and it shows people that giv-ing back to the community can be as simple as making sandwiches,” she said.
Amanda Hartzell, a UF biology 
freshman, said she’s excited to at-tend the event.
“You don’t get a chance to make 
a difference often,” the 19-year-
old said. “This is something really 
easy; sandwiches are one of the 
only things I know how to make.”UF Hillel hosts first 
Mitzvah Madness 
Some students are affected
LOCALDONATIONS BEING COLLECTED:  
• Peanut butter
• Jelly
• Plastic sandwich bags
• Loaves of breadTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
THE LAURELS 2/2 apt, $449/rm, newly renovated, wood flr, granite countertops, ss appliances, W/D in unit. Quiet, pet-friendly, gated community. Avail May 1st thru July 31. Call or text 646-789-3688    4-4-5-3
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Retiring UF Professor's Office Furniture7 armed, leather office chairs = $300. Executive Office Chair = $75. Beautiful ceil-ing fan with halogen lights = $70. Large thin LCD Monitor/TV with wall brackets = $125. Leather couch = $150. All prices firm. Would like to sell all to same person/business. Call 352-219-5539 for an appointment and pick-up at at UF office.   3-31-5-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-1298 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604  
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
 
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not 
less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
UF Survey Research Center
Hiring now for summer
Help wanted. Telephone Interviewers
No Sales
$9.50-$10.00/hr. + Incentives
*Spanish speakers needed
Apply online at www.Jobs.ufl.edu
4-12-15-14
LIVE IN HOUSE MGR
For a co-ed Co-Op near UF in Gainesville. 
Wanted single mature adult, NO UNDER 
GRADUATES MAY APPLY, ideal for PHD 
student or Veteran student, with several 
years of graduate study ahead. Must enjoy 
working with students, responsible, diplo -
matic and assertive. Position starts in May. 
Compensation - bedroom, utilities, parking 
& meals included in exchange for housing responsibilities and monthly stipend. Email cover letter and resume to apply.clo1931@
gmail.com. Background check required, 
must be bondable, NO PETS. We will email 
you a complete job description upon receiv-ing your information.    3-29-16-5-14
CAREGIVERS & BABYSITTERS NEEDEDFull time/part time. Earn up to $25/hr. No exp req'd. Will train. Call now! 813-330-2553  x 201    4-20-16-19-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working student for part-time work in land maintenance on weekends. $10/hr. Contact matt@knellinger -
law.com or 352-591-3000    3-31-5-14
Part time babysitter wanted, must be avail -
able this summer and fall.For four kids ages 7-13 (not all there at all times). Play with 7 year old, drive to activi-ties if needed, light housekeeping (help put away dishes, fold laundry, vaccum) $12/hr. Experience required. Email resume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu.    3-30-16-3-14
YARDWORK
Raking, weeding, minor planting, minor trim-ming. Part time, flexible hours. $10/hr. Contact 352-222-6858 or jobopp77@gmail.com    3-30-16-3-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Bridget Sloan and the Florida 
gymnastics team have been successful because of their chemistry.Read the story on pg. 14By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
Jim McElwain remembers his first 
coaching contract well. 
It was worth $4,723 per year and 
moved him up from graduate assistant 
to a full-fledged coach at his alma mater, Eastern Washington.
“Still have the contract,” McElwain 
said. “Coached quarterbacks and receiv-
ers, taught classes, tended a bar, worked 
at J.C. Penney’s. So I’ve come a ways.”
With the raise he received back in Feb-
ruary — a raise that took his annual salary from $3.5 million a year to $4.25 million a year — that might be an understatement.
But after a 10-win season, the second-
year coach is thankful for the confidence being placed in his long-term plan for 
Florida football.
“It’s so good to know that your univer-
sity and your administration believes in 
the direction that we’re taking this thing,” he said.
One of the steps in that direction was 
Thursday’s scrimmage, the first full scrim-mage of Spring practice for the Gators.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Walker to transfer from Florida
Florida men's basketball guard DeVon Walker will transfer from UF, coach 
Mike White announced on Monday. After missing last season with a torn ACL, the redshirt junior averaged 1.6 points and 1.7 rebounds per game in 2015-16. Walker has one year of eligibility remaining. Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain instructs his players during UF's Spring practice on March 9 at the Sanders Practice Fields.
McElwain reﬂ  ects on past, looks toward future at Florida
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Jarrad Davis may not have 
been the most highly touted re-
cruit when he got to UF, but his play as of late garnered some high praise from one of his coaches on Monday.
“He’s competitive like Jon 
Vilma,” linebackers coach Randy Shannon said of Davis. “Vilma, if you played cards, he’d play you all night until he beat you. That’s how Jarrad is. He never quits. He’s going to win. So if you’re competing at dominoes or a game, you’re gonna be up all night dealing with him until you 
let him win.”
That competitive nature has 
propelled Davis into his role as 
the leader of Florida’s lineback-ing corps, where he’ll be tasked with ﬁ  lling the void left by last season's leading tackler Anto-nio Morrison come fall. But that wasn’t always the expectation.
Davis came to UF as part of 
a 2013 recruiting class that fea-
tured an unusually large four-
man linebacker group. 
Of the four, Alex Anzalone, 
Daniel McMillian and Matt Ro-lin arrived as four-star prospects billed as being among the top 150 players in the country. 
Then there was Davis.
A forgotten man at the time, 
he came in as a three-star re-
cruit and was rated as the 494th-best player in the country by 247Sports. 
Yet, in the three years all four 
players have been on campus, Davis has found the most suc-cess of the group by far. His 98 
tackles last season — good for 
second-most on the team — were 75 more than Daniel McMillian, the next-closest of the group.
Aside from his competitive na-
ture, Shannon also credits a few other areas of Davis’ game for his success. And he threw out more big names to do it.
“Athletically, he’s like Jon 
Beason with the speed and the power,” Shannon said. “And knowledge like Ray (Lewis) was. He knows what to do, he knows how to get the guys lined up and he knows how to protect certain guys on the defense on a call or something like that, so he’s very 
knowledgeable.”
But while Davis’ emergence 
was a welcome development, it 
also posed a question.
What happened to the other 
three linebackers in the 2013 
Davis, linebackers looking to step up
Injuries have hurt the positionTORRES TELLS IT
There’s a trou-
bling trend de-veloping right now with the Florida baseball 
team. 
After its ﬁ  rst two 
Southeastern Confer-ence series, the middle of the order — hitters 3-4-5 — is not producing up to its capabilities. The combination of JJ Schwarz, Peter Alonso and Dea-con Liput has struggled in the six games the Gators have played in the SEC. 
The trio is a combined 14-for-71 
with a .197 batting average after 
the Gators’ series against Missouri 
and Kentucky. To make matters worse for those three, they struck out a higher rate than they 
walked — 14 to 12 — 
while only driving in nine runs. 
Granted, it's almost 
halfway through the regular season already, so of course there’s go-
ing to be more scouting done on all three. Pitchers are ﬁ  nding weak 
spots in their hitting zones. 
But still, they are too talented 
to be constantly getting under the 
ball and striking out. Liput and 
Schwarz in particular have shown 
great plate discipline this year, but Middle of UF's lineup has 
underwhelmed in SEC play
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
SEE LINEBACKERS,  PAGE 15
Luis T orres
twitter: @LFT orresIII“It’s so good to know that your 
university and your administration 
believes in the direction that we’re 
taking this thing.” 
Jim McElwain
UF football coach14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The Florida gymnastics team has 
no shortage of skill.
From players to coaches, each 
member contributes in practice or 
during meets. 
What makes this group special, 
though, is its sense of camaraderie. It’s a tightly knit bunch, supporting each other and pushing each other to improve on a daily basis. 
“I always tell our team we’re 
only as good as our weakest link,” coach Jenny Rowland said. “And I think that everybody has embraced 
that challenge and everybody is 
pushing to get a little bit better ev-ery day.” 
That chemistry enables their tal-
ent to exceed the sum of its parts. It’s what makes them elite. 
It’s also responsible for some 
hardware.
Last week, UF coaches and gym-
nasts brought home 20 individual accolades, split between 14 NACGC Regular-Season All-America selec-tions, four All-Southeastern Confer-ence Team picks, an All-SEC Fresh-man Team selection and an Co-SEC Coach of the Year award. 
Divided among six gymnasts, the 
former 19 are as much a byproduct 
of teamwork as they are a testament 
to skill. And nobody embodies that truth quite like senior Bridget Sloan. 
The only collegiate gymnast to be named an All-American in each of the five event classifications, the 2016 AAI Award finalist sets the standard on the practice mat, train-ing for her teammates as much as she trains for herself. 
“Her work ethic is second to 
none,” Rowland said. “Her deter-mination, her mentality … she’ll do everything that she can possibly inside the gym and outside of the gym to help her be successful, and she’s made it a point that she does not want to look back at the end of this season and go ‘Gosh, what if? I should’ve, I could’ve, if I would’ve 
done this...’ She’s on point and on 
top of all of her daily routines inside and outside the gym.”
It’s a standard that permeates the 
rest of the roster — fueled by a sense of accountability — and is directly correlated to game-day results. 
However, it isn’t unique to the 
athletes. 
Named Co-SEC Coach of the 
Year on Thursday, Rowland rec-ognized the support network that buoyed her in her inaugural season at the helm of the Florida gymnas-tics program. 
“I can’t say that I won this 
award alone without the support of my staff,” Rowland said Monday. 
“Without the support of the sup-
port staff, without the support of the team we would not have gotten (to) where we are today.
“I’m very truly thankful and honored for everybody that I work with, and also very honored that the coaches in the SEC thought that I was deserving of this award as well.” 
It’s this team-first mentality  
that’s pushed Florida to the cusp of 
another national title.And, should the team secure its 
fourth title in as many years come 
April 15, it’ll know exactly what’s responsible. 
“As a whole, as a team, it’s their 
goal to be the best that they can, and they show that in the gym,” 
Rowland said.“They show that outside of the 
gym to the coaching staff, to each 
other, to themselves, and really have just embraced this year to do 
the best that they can do.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgFlorida’s success a product of team-wide chemistry
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Facing elite talent is nothing new for 
the Gators.
It’s been the story all season.
The Florida women’s tennis team has 
faced eight top-25 teams this season, with half of them coming from the Southeastern Conference. 
In those eight matches, the Gators went 
6-2 by a combined score of 38-12.
But of Florida’s six remaining matches, 
four of them pit the Gators against more top-25 teams.
Plus, all six teams hail from the SEC, 
a conference that produced last season’s NCAA champion in the Vanderbilt Com-modores. 
Last season, the Commodores defeated 
the Gators three times on their champion-ship run, becoming the only team to beat Florida in SEC play in 2015. 
This season Florida got its vengeance, 
though, winning 4-2. 
But the SEC has improved, as more 
teams have cracked the top 25 than last season. 
The Gators, however, possess depth 
that helps them combat the improving conference standards.
And it comes via a variety of skill sets. 
Some players finish fast, like Anna Danili-na. And some take their time, like Belinda Woolcock. 
But knowing that any player can shoul-der the burden of a match-clinching sce-nario shows that this unit can be success-ful.
The team’s depth has manifested itself 
in the form of eight UF players having clinched at least one match this season.
In the coming week, No. 15 LSU and No. 17 Texas A&M come to Gainesville looking to give Florida its first SEC loss. 
Against the Tigers, Florida is 41-1 all-
time.
Against the Aggies, Florida is just 3-2.“We’ve got a tough weekend coming up 
with LSU,” coach Roland Thornqvist said. “After that, we have Texas A&M on 
Saturday. We’ve had some great matches with A&M over the past years. Bunch of 4-3s.”
While both matches will count equally 
in the conference standing, the Texas A&M match means a little more to the Gators — especially for senior Brianna Morgan.
The two matches this week are the 
last home matches of the regular season, meaning Saturday’s match against the Ag-gies is the last home match for Morgan.
Through her four years at UF, Morgan 
boasts a 59-9 dual-match record in singles play. 
Her all-time singles record is 103-32.Morgan has been a two-time First Team 
All-SEC selection, a one-time Second Team All-SEC selection and a two-time winner of the Dorothy Anderson Memorial Award. 
“Sure, it’ll be emotional for her. It’ll be 
emotional for me too. I can’t believe it’s been four years already. She’s won a lot of big matches,” Thornqvist said. 
“But it’s not the wins ... It’s the other 
stuff. It’s coming to the training ground every day for four years in a good mood.
“No matter what the academic side is 
or the personal side, (Brianna) comes to practice with a smile on her face and has a positive effect on everyone around her. It’s invaluable. It’s true leadership.”
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.orgFlorida preparing for challenging end to regular-season scheduleEmma Green / Alligator Staff
Bridget Sloan sticks a landing during Florida’s win over North Carolina on March 11 in the O’Connell Center. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Brianna Morgan celebrates during Florida’s 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
NCAA Regionals are Saturdayclass?
The answer, for the most part, 
can be chalked up to injuries. 
Anzalone finally got his shot 
to start last season but was lost 
to a shoulder injury two games 
in. 
Rolin’s injury history was 
more lengthy: two torn ACLs, a back injury at the start of 2015 and only three games played at the end of his third season in Gainesville.
“He’s getting better. He’s not 
where we want him to be as a senior, but he’s gotta keep grind-ing and keep working,” Shannon said of Rolin.
McMillian is the outlier of the 
group, as he hasn’t dealt with in-juries. He just hasn't played well enough to see the field as a line-backer in his first three years. 
However, Shannon believes that could change this season — especially with McMillian mov-ing from weak-side linebacker to strong-side linebacker. 
“Great things ahead for us and 
for him,” Shannon said. “Him learning the weak side and now that he’s able to play the strong 
side, now we gain two positions 
out of one. That’s how you build depth.”
And developing that depth — 
starting with Davis, Anzalone, McMillian and Rolin — will be key to the success of Florida’s linebackers this season.
“It’s our time to step up,” Da-
vis said. 
“It’s our time to take the torch 
and play our role. It’s our time to make plays for this team and put our defense in the position to win games.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgit seems like they’ve gotten away 
from it a little bit.
Maybe they're pressing a bit at 
the plate and it’s causing them to have long swings.
In any case, Coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan and his staff do a great job of watching film and seeing what’s wrong with every individu-al at-bat for each player. 
The coach did it with Alonso 
earlier in the season, and it led to a 
tear during which Alonso hit above 
.400 at one point. 
He’s still hitting .348 on the sea-
son, which is still really good, but 
Alonso may be regressing to the 
mean at some level. 
But now, O’Sullivan needs to meet with those three to see if they can break out of their slumps. He did it with Nelson Maldonado and it’s paid dividends for the fresh-
man. He leads the team with a .409 
batting average in SEC play after struggling for the first third of the season. 
In fact, it wouldn’t surprise 
me if O’Sullivan already met with Schwarz, Alonso and Liput on the plane ride back from Lexington on Sunday. That's how desperately he 
needs them to produce.
And it can start today, as No. 2 
Florida takes a game off from SEC 
play to face No. 12 Florida State 
tonight at 6 in Jacksonville. The 
Gators won the first meeting 6-0 in Gainesville, with the middle of the lineup going 4-for-12. 
Schwarz had three of the hits during the game, but it was Alonso who had the biggest hit among the trio, cranking a two-run home run to left. 
All three reached base, with Li-
put walking and reaching on an er-ror in the sixth inning. 
If Florida wants to reach the 
heights it set out to reach before the season started — winning the College World Series and a national title — the players at the heart of the lineup must break out of their 
funk. 
And with O’Sullivan at the 
helm, it’s only a matter of time be-
fore they do so.
Luis Torres is the alligatorSports 
online editor. You can contact 
him at ltorres@alligator.org and 
you can follow him on Twitter @
LFTorresIII.  Overall, McElwain “really felt good” 
about his team’s performance and was 
pleased with all the reps — 117 to be exact, not counting special teams — his 
players got, particularly his younger play-
ers.
He made note of his defense’s third-
down improvement and its three take-aways during the scrimmage, which, of 
course, wasn’t a bright spot from an of-
fensive perspective.
The offense did, however, put together 
some quick starts on a few series, includ-
ing some “explosive passes” from the 
quarterbacks.
“I thought all the quarterbacks had 
their moments, both good and bad,” McElwain said. 
“And yet, I think the consistency in 
which they played was pretty darned good.”
No one was able to separate himself 
from the field, however.
McElwain also praised his wide receiv-
ers for catching the ball well, as well as the running backs for catching the ball out of the backfield.
In the kicking game, transfer Eddy Pin-eiro made a few field goals, albeit without any pressure. The plan this week is to put him into more high-pressure kicking situ-ations.
And other than one errant kick that 
went out of bounds “really fast and really hard,” according to McElwain, Pineiro’s 
kickoff skills impressed the coach.
“His hang time, when he swings his 
leg, I think we’ve got a chance to have a 
pretty good cover team because of him,” McElwain said.
Having a full year under his belt and 
having the returning players used to the system has already made a significant difference this spring, and being able to 
concentrate on more than just learning 
the expectations has made events like Thursday’s scrimmage that much more valuable.
“Even in the install phase, you’re just 
farther ahead,” McElwain said. 
“I think that that would be true for any 
program going into their second year, and you can really tell just how the guys know 
what to expect from a practice structure 
standpoint in what they’ve done.”
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13McElwain said that the quarterback competition remains open
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Feleipe Franks passes during Florida's Spring practice on March 9 at the Sanders Practice 
Fields. Coach Jim McElwain said none of UF's quarterbacks separated themselves from the rest during UF's first full scrimmage of Spring practice.
COLUMN,  from pg 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
JJ Schwarz jogs off the field during Florida's 5-4 win over UNF on March 9 at McKethan Stadium.
Luis T orres / Alligator Staff
Florida linebackers coach Randy Shannon looks on during UF's  Spring practice on March 16 at the Sanders Practice Fields.
LINEBACKERS,  from pg 13Shannon developing 
depth among linebackers16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2016
THE REDSHIRT SENIOR HAS 
16 GOALS IN HER LAST FIVE 
GAMES.
By Kyle Brutman
Sports Writer
Teammates refer to redshirt senior Ni-
cole Graziano as a grandma.
“She’s a leader, top to bottom,” Flor-
ida coach Amanda O’Leary said. “From 
being on the field, just psyching people up, getting them excited. When they make mistakes, just kinda patting them on the back saying, ‘We’ve got this. 
We’re gonna get it back.”
The maturation of Graziano, this 
year’s captain, has put her in a position 
to be an effective team leader, an oppor-
tunity she has taken advantage of this 
season.
From the time the new class of play-
ers arrived in the fall, Graziano did what 
she could to reach out to them and help 
create team chemistry.
As a result, the freshman class has 
played well this season led by midfield-
ers Sydney Pirreca and Lindsey Ronbeck, both of whom have started all 11 games 
and scored double-digit goals.
“She has just been an integral part 
of the success of this program over the 
course of the four years, and I think she wanted to make this fifth year a spe-
cial one, and I think she’s done that,” 
O’Leary said of Graziano.
The redshirt senior is the only player 
on the roster to have appeared in Flori-
da’s National Semifinals game in 2012, and has broken out during the past three weeks to become the Gators’ leading scorer with 24 goals this season.
In the last five games, beginning with 
a four-goal effort in a 7-6 away win over Stony Brook on March 6, she has scored 16 goals.
Now, just one game into Big East 
play, she is just three goals away from setting her career-high in goals scored in a season.
Graziano has also been one of the 
team’s most efficient players, scoring five free-position goals — tied for the team-high — on just eight attempts this season. She is also second among non-defensive players with at least five starts in shots-on-goal percentage (82.9 percent), as she has just seven shots that have failed to go on-target this year.
“Now, (Graziano) is mature enough 
to realize that everybody make mistakes, so we’re going to let those roll off of us, and we’re going to go and make the next play,” O’Leary said.
But Graziano isn’t the only Florida 
lacrosse player to see her play improve lately.
In the limited time freshman goal-
keeper Haley Hicklen has played in the cage, she has a made a veteran-esque impact. Saturday against Vanderbilt, she played the entire second half and set a new career-high in saves with six.
“She’s got quick hands,” the coach 
said of Hicklen. “She’s big and tall so a lot of her is just standing still and sighting the ball.”
But what makes her really special is 
her confidence.
“She steps out on that field — I mean, 
she owns it,” O’Leary said. “And that confidence just pays off day-in and day-out in practice and in games. She feels like she can make every save and she just about does that.”
To complement Hicklen’s confidence, 
senior Mary-Sean Wilcox brings her ex-perience in big-game situations to the table.
In UF’s 16-15 win against then-No. 
2 North Carolina, Wilcox was replaced after halftime when the score was 8-8. Florida led UNC 14-11 with 12:43 left in the game, but Hicklen let two quick goals get by her, and the Tar Heels were within one goal with 11:13 remaining. Wilcox was able to halt UNC’s momentum for the duration of the game, allowing just two goals in the game’s final 10 minutes.
“She can handle a lot of different pres-
sures on the field,” O’Leary said.
“Haley just has that sense of confi-
dence. So, I think you look at those two, and it’s a coin flip every day as to who’s playing better.”
@KBrut13
kbrutman@alligator.orgGraziano leading Florida lacrosse
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Nicole Graziano defends during Florida’s 12-11 win over Michigan on Feb. 13 at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
WOMEN’S GOLF
By Alfredo Morales
Sports Writer
Florida has earned the right to be confident. 
With five first-place finishes under its belt — the most since 
the 2007-08 season — and three tournament victories in a row, it would be almost too easy for UF to become complacent. 
Yet with pressure mounting, the Gators have succeeded 
through managing expectations and dismissing complacency.
“Each of our wins that we’ve had in the spring have pre-
sented a different challenge,” coach Emily Glaser said Monday about Florida defending its title at the Briar’s Creek Invita-tional.
”In this one was the challenge of defending your title, the 
challenge of being the top-ranked team, the challenge of the expectations that you’re supposed to win this tournament. I thought the girls did a really good job of responding to that.” 
That being said, the Gators recognize a tournament win is 
not without its faults. 
At Briar’s Creek, sophomore Taylor Tomlinson ended the 
first day 14 strokes over par. 
The Gainesville native was not able to recover through the 
three rounds of play, ending the tournament at 12 over par. 
At the other end of the leaderboard, freshman Samantha 
Wagner barely missed out on a top-three finish after following up two under-par rounds with an even-par round due to three 
bogies on the back nine. 
But for Glaser, it is what the team does after the tourna-
ment — through both the highs and lows — that shows its 
resiliency.
“...the really cool thing that I saw from the team was that, 
after lunch we were sitting there waiting for all the scores to come in and the girls were already talking about what they were going to do to improve,” Glaser said. 
“That’s really cool to see from a team who’s obviously had 
a lot of success this spring.” 
But just as important for Glaser is what she hasn’t seen in 
the team.
“They certainly haven’t rested or been content with the 
wins. I haven’t seen any egos popping out, I haven’t seen anybody really being content with the way that they played,” Glaser said. 
“I’ve been really happy with the fact that, even though 
we’ve been able to win, we seem to be learning and it’s re-ally acted as a great motivator for the girls, and I think they’re starting to get excited about what’s to come in the spring.”
@amorales_95
amorales@alligator.orgGators staying 
grounded despite 
recent success