We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 40 MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
Tabor, UF defense dominates
Check out the photo story from Florida’s 
homecoming win on Saturday, pg. 14
County renames building after former slave
Josiah Walls also served as Gainesville’s mayor, pg. 5
US Army honors local marching band member
He’ll perform in a prestigous showcase, pg. 5A Homecoming to remember
See our photo story, pgs. 8-9
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Quincy Wilson knows where Florida 
stands in its quest to return to the Southeast-
ern Conference Championship Game.And the junior cornerback said if the 
Gators sustain their stride from this weekend, they have the chance to make a return trip to Atlanta a reality.
With a 40-14 win over Missouri on Satur-
day, Florida is now 3-1 halfway through its conference slate. It is the No. 15 team in the country and in full control of the SEC East. And after Tennessee fell 49-10 to top-ranked Alabama, the Gators are the only team in the seven-team division with less than two losses 
in SEC play.
“We’re back on top,” Wilson said, “and 
that’s just the way it’s supposed to be.”
But for UF to stay on top, it has to endure 
the grueling second half of its SEC schedule.After its bye this week, Florida’s ﬁ  nal 
four conference games are against Georgia in 
Jacksonville, No. 17 Arkansas in Fayetteville, South Carolina in Gainesville and No. 25 LSU in Baton Rouge.
Should Florida emerge from that stretch 
unscathed or with less conference losses than Tennessee (currently 2-2 in SEC play), the  COMPLETE CONTROL
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Renee Hoffner-Dabbs hadn’t 
been to Gator Growl since 1988.
Now 54, she returned Friday 
night, wanting to experience the Homecoming event at the same time 
as her daughter, a UF freshman.
Twenty-eight years later, Hoffner-
Dabbs was still impressed.
“When I ﬁ  rst heard about all of 
the changes, I was concerned,” said 
Hoffner-Dabbs, who watched come-
dian Jerry Seinfeld’s routine in Ben 
Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium in 1988. “But this exceeds all expectations. This is a true pep-rally environment.”
This year’s Gator Growl was held 
on Flavet Field for the third year and featured performances from country duo Maddie & Tae, pop band Time-ﬂ  ies, rapper Waka Flocka Flame and 
electronic band Passion Pit. 
Student Government Productions 
paid a combined total of $230,000 
for the four acts, according to Rob-ert Felder, the general chairman for Homecoming Week and Gator Growl. 
Millie Llanes, the executive pro-
ducer of Gator Growl, said about 11,000 tickets were sold, but about 10,000 people attended. She said the performers’ sets ran on schedule, with the ﬁ  rst set starting at 6 p.m. and the last ﬁ  nishing before 10 p. m.
“It was all-around high energy the 
entire time,” she said. “We’ve heard 
nothing but positive feedback.” 
Rayanna Gopaul, 20, got there at 
5 p.m. — two hours before Timeﬂ  ies 
went onstage — in order to claim a front-row seat. She guessed she was one of the ﬁ  rst 20 people to arrive.
“I’ve always been a fan of them, 
but they just never come to Florida,” the UF event management junior 
said.
Even as the performers and stu-
dent groups took to the stage, a rock-
climbing wall — a new addition this year — had a continuous line. Waka Flocka Flame, other performances a highlight at Gator Growl
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Waka Flocka Flame sings to the crowd during Gator Growl on Flavet Field on Friday evening.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The only days Burrito Brothers Taco Co. 
still sees a steady stream of hungry clients are 
gamedays. 
Randy Akerson, the Burrito Bros. owner, 
said his restaurant makes four to ﬁ  ve times more revenue on these days compared to an average Saturday. But following the resched-uling of the Louisiana State University game to Nov. 19 in Baton Rouge, his business will have to re-adjust due to the loss.
“It’s catastrophic,” he said. “I can’t believe 
that they’ve done this.”The original game, scheduled to be in 
Gainesville, was postponed due to Hurri-cane Matthew. In rescheduling, UF canceled its home game against Presbyterian College, which was originally scheduled for Nov. 19. 
Akerson said if weather causes the South 
Carolina game on Nov. 12 to be canceled, Burrito Bros. won’t be able to survive.
“To mess with the entire economy of 
the town to make LSU happy seems kind of wrong-headed to me,” Akerson said. “I would like the university to explain why they did this.” Gainesville businesses facing loss 
due to rescheduled LSU gameFLORIDA 40
  MISSOURI  14
SEE GROWL,  PAGE 4
SEE LSU,  PAGE 4With win, UF leads SEC East
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
American rock band The All-American Re-
jects is coming to UF on Nov. 4. 
The band, which is being paid $65,000 to 
perform, is headlining the free UF “Rock the 
Vote” show on Flavet Field at 7:30 p.m., wrote 
Dillon Knox, the chairman of Student Govern-
ment Productions, in an email. The event was announced during Gator Growl.
In collaboration with UF External Affairs, 
Chomp the Vote and Gators Going Green, Knox said the event is related to the U.S. elections and provides an opportunity to en-courage students to go vote on Election Day, which is Nov. 8. The event will feature an opening perfor-
mance, which will be announced later, he said. The organization has been planning to bring the band for a few months. 
“We feel students will be very excited 
about them performing here, and the show will be very well attended,” he said.
Sarah Nguyentran, a UF entomology ju-
nior, said she didn’t realize the event was of-ﬁ  cial until she saw a post on Facebook. 
The 20-year-old said she hasn’t listened 
to the band since she was younger, but she’s looking forward to the event. 
“It’s been a while since I listened to them,” 
Nguyentran said. “There’s so much nostalgia around it, but I kind of want to go.”  The All-American Rejects to 
perform free concert at UFSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome political watch 
parties
Join the Hippodrome State 
Theatre to watch the presiden-tial debates leading up to the 2016 election party Nov. 8. The 
Hippodrome basement will be 
open to the public for this cannot-
miss series. All watch parties are free to attend. The watch party 
for the third presidential debate 
is Wednesday, and the election-night watch party is Nov. 8. The bar will open 30 minutes before the watch parties be-gin. Some Americana-themed 
Hippodrome specials will be 
served. Grab your friends and a 
cocktail to enjoy this politically 
charged event (that’s all in good fun).
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper. 
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 40
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
After inciting a police chase in a stolen car — and 
later ﬂ  ipping it — a local man was arrested Saturday, 
Gainesville Police said.
At about midnight, Daryl Timothy 
Robinson Jr., 27, refused to stop after 
an ofﬁ  cer observed him driving the car 
in the 2900 block of S. Main St., accord-ing to the report. 
With the ofﬁ  cer’s lights and siren 
on, Robinson continued driving south-bound before heading west on South-west Williston Road, reaching speeds of about 70 mph, according to the re-
port.
After brieﬂ  y losing sight of Robinson, the ofﬁ  cer 
found the stolen car ﬂ  ipped on its roof about 100 feet west of the intersection at 1300 SW Williston Road, ac-cording to the report. Three passengers, including Rob-inson, were inside the car.
A second car involved in the accident was found 
nearby.
As Robinson was pulled from the front passenger 
window of the stolen car, he declined medical attention, 
according to the report.
In the driver’s seat of the car, police found a loaded 
handgun. Police arrested Robinson on charges of grand 
theft auto, attempting to elude police, reckless driving and not having a valid driver’s license. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $45,000 bond.  MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
By Carolyn Batt
Alligator Contributing Writer
With the help of a $1.1 million 
grant, out-of-school youth across North Central Florida can con-tinue to receive mentorship and occupational training.
The grant, awarded by the U.S. 
Department of Labor, will go to-ward Gainesville-based nonproﬁ  t Project YouthBuild, which offers training to low-income youth be-tween the ages of 16 and 24.
Jonathan Leslie, the executive 
director of the Institute of Work-force Innovation, which oversees the nonproﬁ  t, said the grant was awarded after the success of the program.
“It’s based on the impact we 
are having on the community with the young people we serve,” he said. “We have positive re-sults.”
In the last two years, 93 per-
cent of students have received their high school diploma, and about 75 percent of students en-ter the workforce or postsecond-ary education after graduation, 
Leslie said.
Currently located at 408 W. University Ave., Suite 111, Proj-
ect YouthBuild will relocate to the Banks-Cosby Youth Empow-erment Center, located at 635 NW Sixth St., in early 2017, he said.
Project YouthBuild helped re-
cent program graduate Broderick Duffy, 25, ﬁ  nd a job at a local Au-toZone when no one else would 
hire him. 
“I came in getting turned down for everything because I have tat-toos and my background,” the 
Santa Fe College student said.
While Duffy gave some sug-
gestions as to where the grant money should be spent — like larger classes — he said he was sure the program would spend the funds justly.
“They’re going to do the right 
thing with the money,” he said. 
 GNV-based nonproﬁ  t receives $1.1 million grant to mentor teensAfter not receiving a text back Friday night, a woman and her 
accomplice dropped feces on a man’s bed and wrote “B----” on his wall using duct tape, Gainesville Police said.
At about 12:30 a.m., 18-year-old Nikki Ro-
wena Sismanidis and 19-year-old Jasmine Ma-
rie Suarez, both from Gainesville, entered the 
man’s unlocked apartment in the 1700 block of SW Ninth Way and walked into his bedroom, according to a police report.
The duo then used duct tape to spell out the 
profanity on his wall and planted animal poop on his bed, causing about $500 in damages, ac-cording to the report. Removal of the duct tape 
caused several layers of the wall’s paint to come 
off.
The man told police that Sismanidis became 
hostile after he did not reply to her text mes-
sage Friday asking where he was, according to the report. He also said Sismanidis would often get mad when he wouldn’t want to hang out with her.
During a police-monitored call with the 
man, Sismanidis and Suarez admitted to vandalizing the man’s 
room, according to the report.
Police arrested the two on charges of burglary and criminal mis-
chief. Authorities took them to the Alachua County Jail where they 
were released Sunday on their own recognizance.
As of press time, Sismanidis could not be reached for comment, 
and Suarez declined to comment. GPD: Disgruntled women plant poop on man’s bed
Deputies arrested a Newberry man Friday after ﬁ  nd-
ing about 100 teenagers at a house party hosted by his 
daughter, ofﬁ  cials said.
At about 10:30 p.m., Alachua 
County Sheriff’s deputies arrested James Ward McCauley, 52, after ﬁ  nd-ing a large house party at his home in the 4000 block of NW 155 Terrace, 
according to the report. Dozens of at-tendees under the age of 21 were at the home, with many appearing to be drunk and drinking alcoholic bever-ages.
McCauley told ofﬁ  cers his daughter said to not inter-
fere with her party, so he went into his room at about 9 p.m. and put in earplugs, according to the report. After deputies went through his home, they found several minors hiding and one passed out. Elsewhere, they no-
ticed several different types of beer, vodka and dark 
liquor.
While standing outside, one minor became sick from 
the alcohol and threw up on McCauley’s lawn, accord-
ing to the report.
Police arrested McCauley on a charge of contributing 
to the delinquency of minors. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released on his own recognizance Saturday. As of press time, he could not be reached for comment.  Father arrested after teens attend house party· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Suarez
Sismanidis
McCauley
Robinson
 Police: man steals car, evades police, ﬂ  ips carBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
Atlanta rapper Waka Flocka 
Flame, who performed hits like “No 
Hands” and “Hard in da Paint,” wore a UF jersey. After he finished, 
roughly a third of the crowd left the 
event before Passion Pit, the final act, took the stage.
For Benjamin Velie, a UF math-
ematics freshman, it was disappoint-ing to see the crowd’s energy drop as people began to leave during Passion Pit’s performance, which featured hits like “Sleepyhead” and “Take a 
Walk.”
“I expected it to be more vi-
brant,” the 18-year-old said. But, just 
before fireworks lit the night sky for the final time, he said it was worth the $15 ticket.
“I had fun,” Velie said. “I enjoyed 
my time.”
For D.J. Meyers, a UF computer 
science and Russian fifth-year stu-dent, it was worth staying until the very end.
“Compared to last year, it was a 
great choice of talent,” the 22-year-old said, “and hopefully there will be more good talent for years to come.”GROWL,  from pg. 110,000 came
Damon Bailey, a manager at 
Italian Gator Pizza By the Slice, said 
the restaurant receives about twice as much income on gamedays, but the loss of the home games aren’t devastating. 
“We missed the first two games 
due to renovations, so we would’ve really liked to have as many games as possible,” he said. 
Ryan Prodesky, the director of operations at The Swamp Restau-rant, said hundreds of business-es and thousands of workers in Gainesville rely on football season. 
The restaurant’s income always 
sees an increase during home foot-ball games, and the money is put away for the slow season, he said. Now, The Swamp is left without that expected income.
“It’s a large hit that we’ll take,” 
he said. “That revenue is going to be tough to make up.”Prodesky said he believes the 
University Athletic Association is keeping local economies in mind during its decisions, and The Swamp will hopefully make up the revenue during next year’s in-creased number of home games.
Amy Ritch, who helps her fa-
ther work the Gators Plus tent dur-ing home games, said a majority of Gators Plus’ profits come from home games, and when the games are canceled, the store loses sales.“You still have to pay rent, and 
you still have inventory,” she said. 
She said Gators Plus isn’t plan-
ning on making any cuts or ad-justments due to the game cancel-lations, but, like Prodesky, she is optimistic next year’s increase in home games will make up for the loss. 
“One can only hope,” Ritch said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org
LSU,  from pg. 1Businesses looking for explanations, solutions for the lossBy Hope Basile
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Young visitors to the Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History will soon be able to touch a Tyran-
nosaurus-rex skull.
The museum’s new Discovery Zone will have 
an interactive bone zone, where children ages 
1 to 8 can explore bones and fossils, said Dale 
Johnson, the project manager. The museum ex-pects the Discovery Zone to open July 2017. 
Construction for the project began Sept. 12 and cost about $2.1 million, she said. Funding for the project began three years ago, with do-nations coming from the state, large donors and museum guests. 
The construction won’t interfere with the oth-
er exhibits, she said, and the cost of building it covers supplies and construction. 
“We don’t compromise on science, safety or 
accuracy,” Johnson said.
The room will also have an interactive wind 
tunnel, a dissecting microscope connected to a high-definition screen and a meteorite that weighs 250 pounds, she said. 
The Discovery Zone will replace the cur-
rent Discovery Room, a temporary exhibit that opened about three summers ago, she said. The museum wanted to create a permanent place where children could interact with science. 
Museum guest Huijing Yang said she’s ex-
cited to bring her kids to see the Discovery Zone once it’s completed. She brings her family to the museum three times a week.
“The kids will really like the interactive activi-
ties and things they can touch,” Yang said.Florida Museum to open $2.1-million discovery zoneBy Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Gainesville resident Peter Ynigo 
heard the news, his Cuban pride came out.
Ynigo, the owner of Mi Apa Latin Cafe 
of Gainesville, grew up watching the Miami Marlins baseball team and, more recently, the 
team’s Cuban-born pitcher José Fernández. 
So when Fernández died in a boating ac-
cident Sept. 25, Ynigo decided to honor his 
memory the best way he could.
Beginning Friday, the employees at both 
Mi Apa locations, in Alachua and Gainesville, are wearing commemorative orange-and-blue number 16s — Fernández’s number — on their shirts. And for the next week, a portion of the restaurants’ sales will be donated to the late baseball player’s foundation, the JDF16 Foundation.
Ynigo said motivation for the promotion 
at his Cuban restaurants came after hearing Fernández’s harrowing story about how he successfully defected from Cuba to Miami and went on to become one of the best baseball players in MLB, becoming a South Florida icon in the process.
“The day we heard about it, it was such 
a big thing in South Florida,” Ynigo said. “I 
could see from my balcony where the accident 
happened. In Gainesville, nobody was really talking about it, so I said, ‘We need to do it.’”
When he was 7 years old, Ynigo defected 
from Cuba with his grandfather and parents, 
settling in Miami.
A huge fan of American and Cuban base-
ball, Ynigo said he was drawn to Fernández 
while he was still in high school. He followed Fernández throughout his career, one that would eventually include a National League Rookie of the Year Award and two all-star ap-pearances.
But what stood out to him about Fernández 
was how he carried himself off the field.
“What I admired about him was about how 
humble he was and his relationship with his mom and his grandma,” he said, adding that Fernández’s closeness to his family never fal-tered.
For Ynigo, the 24-year-old pitcher was 
someone to look up to. When news broke of Fernández’s death off of Miami Beach, Ynigo 
said the baseball community was shaken.
“We just couldn’t believe it,” he said.
On Friday afternoon, Luke Guinart sat 
down at the restaurant’s Southwest 34th Street location, where about 10 employees bore Fernández’s number.
At first, the baseball fan said he didn’t know 
why the employees were wearing the number. When he found out, he nodded his head.
“It’s nice of them to do this,” Guinart said.Mi Apa commemorates José Fernández through jerseys, donations
THE FLOATS WERE NOT 
ALLOWED TO DISPLAY 
CANDIDATE NAMES.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Homecoming Committee 
chose to allow parade floats support-ing political parties as long as candi-date names weren’t displayed. 
On Friday, 146 floats partici-pated in the parade, one of which was sponsored by the UF College Democrats and another by a group titled Make America Great Again. The guidelines for parade floats state applicants are not allowed to have 
campaign-driven floats, but they are 
allowed to have messages support-ing a movement, said Matt Kessler, the director of the parade.
“It’s a thin line to some, but it’s 
the line we decided to draw,” the 20-year-old UF accounting junior said.
Kessler said he approved and in-
spected each float before the parade. One group that was denied a float in the parade came from Donald Trump’s campaign, he said, which 
wanted to drive a recreational vehi-
cle with Trump’s name on the side. 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said she hasn’t heard any complaints about the floats represented. 
“There are guidelines in place to 
make sure everyone has a fair play-ing field,” she said. 
Sikes referred all questions to UF 
Homecoming and Gator Growl rep-resentatives, declining to comment on floats with a political message. 
With both political parties in the 
parade, Jake Best, the president of Gators 4 Hillary, said he felt there was equal representation.
“As long as both sides were of-
fered a fair opportunity, I don’t see a problem,” the 19-year-old UF jour-nalism sophomore said.Richard El-Rassy, the president 
of UF College Republicans, said the Homecoming Parade expresses the interests of students and community members.
“Exercising free speech, especial-
ly in a political context, is not some-thing that should ever be discour-aged,” the 20-year-old UF finance senior said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
UF Homecoming Parade floats see political presenceSara Marino / Alligator
Employees at Mi Apa Latin Cafe of Gainesville wear orange-and-blue number 16s on 
their shirts to honor the memory of Miami Marlins pitcher José Fernández, who died on Sept. 25 in a boating accident.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
JOSIAH WALLS HELD MULTIPLE 
GOVERNMENT POSITIONS.
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
Born into shackles and later elected Gainesville’s 
mayor, Josiah T. Walls was celebrated Sunday as Ala-
chua County renamed a building in his honor.
About 100 Gainesville residents and state ofﬁ  cials 
attended the rededication ceremony outside of the 
Alachua County Property Appraiser and Supervisor of 
Elections Building, located at 515 N. Main St., which 
now bears the name of the former slave in silver let-ters.
During his life, Walls became the only person in 
history to serve as Gainesville’s mayor, a county com-
missioner, a school board member, a state senator 
and a U.S. congressman collectively.
Among the six speakers at the ceremony, including County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson and Florida District 3 Representative Ted Yoho, many touched on Walls’ ability to succeed in spite of oppression and his devotion to helping the community around him.
Aubroncee Martin, the president of the Josiah T. 
Walls Bar Association, said he wanted the audience to be inspired by the dedication Walls showed to break-ing barriers for the African-American community. And although progress has been made, he said a ra-cial divide still exists in the county and, more widely, across the country.
“For all the leaps and bounds that we as a society 
have taken, there’s still a lot of work to do,” he said.
When Louis Kalivoda, a 67-year-old retired Santa 
Fe College administrator and UF alumnus, ﬁ  rst heard of Walls’ accomplishments in the 1980s, he said he couldn’t believe he hadn’t heard sooner.
For him, the dedication was long overdue.
“I was ﬂ  abbergasted,” he said. “I said, ‘Who is this 
guy, and why don’t I know about him?’”  County renames building after 
former slave, Gainesville mayor
By Meagan Meredith
Alligator Contributing Writer
An F.W. Buchholz High School se-
nior was selected this month to march 
in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl game in January.
Ben Harbaugh, 17, will perform 
alongside 124 other high school marching band members in a show-case for high school football players, said April Brown, a public relations representative for the Army.
Harbaugh, who began perform-
ing in sixth grade and now plays the baritone, said he was happy the Army chose him, a selection based on his 
musical skill and soldier-like traits.
“It’s reassuring to know that all of 
my hard work paid off,” he said.
Buchholz band director Shawn 
Barat nominated Harbaugh after he 
expressed interest in the performance 
last Spring. Barat said his skill and pas-sion made Harbaugh easy to support.
“He’s a great student and a great 
musician,” Barat said, “and he works 
very hard.”
Joining Harbaugh will be a mem-
ber of the Eastside High School march-ing band, he said.
The application consisted of two 
performances and a video-essay, which Harbaugh said was the most stressful part.
“I’m sometimes awkward talking 
in front of cameras, but in terms of just marching and playing, I’m so used to it that I wasn’t as nervous,” he said.
Jackie Johnson, an Alachua Coun-
ty Public Schools spokeswoman, said she was proud of Harbaugh’s accom-plishment.
“It’s an amazing honor, and it’s 
another recognition of the outstanding quality of the art and music programs we have in our school system,” she said.  US Army honors local 
marching band memberCourtesy to the Alligator
Ben Harbaugh, an F.W. Buchholz High School senior, was chosen to 
march along with other top-tier high-school band members at the U.S. Army All-American Bowl game in January. The senior baritone player was selected based on his musical skill and soldier mentality.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
About 100 people attended the Josiah T. Walls building rededication at 515 N. Main St. Walls was the ﬁ  rst person to be the mayor of Gainesville, county commissioner, school board member, state senator and U.S. congressman collectively.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
STEM and liberal arts should not be that separate
Hearing about the current demand for 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics majors is nonstop. From high school onward, the STEM vs. liberal arts dichotomy starts to heat 
up and continues beyond college. Although it may be true that people with these skills are desperately needed, being a STEM major does not mean you are inherently more hardwork-ing than others, and a liberal arts major is not lazy just because the answers to liberal-arts questions might be more open-ended.
Success is not dependent on being a STEM major. Be-
cause STEM majors are inherently considered “smart”  — no matter how well they actually do in class — they are often excused for a lack of people skills or being out-right rude. “Their classes are harder,” and “they have to study more,” but the truth is everyone has hard and easy classes, and it’s a matter of balancing them out. 
For example, for journalism majors, reporting could 
be considered as tough as physics or calculus for science majors. It’s offensive to assume being a political science or journalism major means I’ve taken the easy route. If a student considers everything he or she does in class to be extraordinarily and inconceivably hard, that person probably chose the wrong major. STEM majors will often say they ﬁ  nd writing difﬁ  cult, which is why they chose STEM — yet some will criticize liberal arts majors for their choice of major when they might ﬁ  nd math or sci-ence difﬁ  cult.
People generally accept that a STEM major is the path 
to employability, but this may not be the case. Like liber-al arts, STEM is astoundingly broad. According to Irving Wladawsky-Berger in The Washington Post’s article “Is There a STEM Crisis or a STEM Surplus?” some experts contend that there are more STEM degrees than STEM jobs. Without liberal arts, STEM majors wouldn’t have the writing skills some of them claim are the easiest part for liberal arts majors. So much of liberal arts is learning to think — to piece together a string of words in a unique way to express your views and back them up with facts. It’s what allows an exam to include a question that may have never been directly addressed in class — because you should be able to reason it out.
While STEM and liberal arts may seem like 
polar opposites, about half of STEM majors 
end up not ﬁ  nding work in their ﬁ  eld, according to an Economic Policy Institute study cited by the New York Daily News. Ultimately, both skills deserve to be valued. Maybe it’s time to stop and think about why these ﬁ  elds are pitted against each other and why one is seen as so superior to the other. Liberal arts majors, such as wom-en’s studies and art history, are heavily targeted as never being employed in a well-paying job. 
According to a study by Rong Su and James Rounds 
in Frontiers in Psychology, “Women are now overrepre-sented in social sciences, yet only constitute a fraction of the engineering workforce.” Is it possible that the liberal arts have been undervalued because STEM is so male-dominated? When women put other women down for being a liberal arts major, it could just be a product of internalized sexism and devaluing the things that histori-cally concern women.
No matter what, it’s important to respect each per-
son’s choice of career path. Keep in mind that what may come so easily to you might be hard for someone else, and vice versa. Instead of pitting the sciences and hu-manities against each other, let’s value both for what they are and accept that the world needs both kinds of skills — no matter your major.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science junior. Her col-
umn appears on Mondays.What’s the social 
cost of your 
Halloween costume?
Perhaps one of the most notorious college stereotypes of 
our generation is that we are a hypersensitive bunch that’s overly obsessed with not offending people via 
the uncontrollable culture of political correctness. As 
a newspaper, we here at the Alligator are all in favor 
of free speech. We believe comments on controversial and deeply personal topics like religious ideology, lifestyle deci-
sions and cultural awareness ought to be heard. It’s fair to 
hold a critical opinion on any of those topics, which brings us to a recent campus announcement. 
With Halloween just around the corner, UF released an an-
nouncement asking students to please keep in mind that their 
decisions to dress up in certain costumes may be troublesome 
for other students who have a personal connection to said cos-tume. We remember a time in 2012 when UF students shame-fully dressed up in blackface for a party. Such costumes are 
obviously inappropriate, because they degrade many of our 
peers and reduce those peers to nothing more than a joke.
But this does not mean every costume that includes an ac-
knowledgement to some particular ideology, background, cul-tural practice, etc., is inherently offensive. Believe it or not, 
satire is just as popular as it’s ever been and is not necessarily 
embodied only in writing, late-night TV skits and Lil Dicky songs. The art of satire is best demonstrated, more or less, by exposing some absurd concept in our lives. It is not an in-
conceivable notion that a Halloween costume can be satirical. 
Moreover, it’s quite possible a Halloween costume makes an insightful (and even necessary) comment on a controversial topic. A sickly thin iceberg is a cute take on climate change, and the last surviving bumblebee could be a clever comment 
on the newly endangered species. It’s only natural that people 
have varying interpretations of costumes. Please, dear reader, do not mistake “that is offensive” with “I am offended.” There is a difference, and how you choose to verbalize your take on 
a costume changes how we engage in conversation around the 
topic it brings up.
UF followed up their plea saying there are help services and 
resources available to UF students who ﬁ  nd themselves “trou-bled” by costumes. We also encourage you to take advantage 
of such programs if you feel it necessary. Hopefully, nobody 
will dress in a way that is just downright disrespectful (read: with literally no contribution to the conversation) toward a group of people. If you have to think about whether a costume 
you’re wearing actually makes a point or just makes fun of a 
group, you’re probably better off not wearing it.
Our point is simple: It is, in fact, possible to respectfully 
point out a ﬂ  aw with something very intimately linked with people’s lives. Moreover, it is possible to do that and involve 
humor in some way. Lastly, this concept can be embodied in 
a costume, and with Halloween coming up, it’s likely we will see such costumes. So please, dear reader, when choosing cos-tumes next week, think about what you wear, because while 
the line may seem clear for some, some of us with perfectly 
ﬁ  ne intentions have very blurry vision.
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
When asked what the 
most infuriating thing in the world is, many 
potential answers 
come to mind. For me 
(and at least some others, I as-sume), it’s ignorance. Shocker, 
right? That’s why I am majoring 
in journalism, and that’s why I spend time each week writing things like this article to hopeful-ly invoke some kind of thought-
ful reaction to a variety of topics. Other 
infuriating things include people who use the 10 items or less line with more than 10 items, cut in line, eat pizza crust-ﬁ  rst 
and chew with their mouths open (just 
writing that list made me start to twitch). However, there is one habit above all that really shouldn’t be an issue but has come to permeate our already delicate collegiate 
society: cheating.
Now, before I just dive right into the 
rant that is sure to come, I’d like to clar-
ify a bit. You are not a terrible person if 
you’ve ever cheated. I’m not condemning 
you to a life cursed by bad luck and an eternity in hell if you’ve succumbed to the cruel temptation. It happens. Sometimes, you don’t even mean to look at the exam 
next to you and change your answer be-
cause you feel like they probably have a better chance of being right than you do. However, there is still never an excuse.
About three out of every four college 
students admit to cheating. We all know that not every person who has cheated ad-mits to it. In addition, we all know that not every form of academic dishonesty ﬁ  ts 
a cut-and-dry deﬁ  nition of cheating. Does 
using your past work count? Does cheat-ing only really count if a second party is involved? If someone happens to send me 
a text on my smart watch with the answer, 
am I supposed to ignore it? How can I ig-nore it?
Cheating is one giant gray area. It has 
been an issue for decades, and there is one 
underlying reason why it remains as such: 
We assume it is OK and it can’t be ﬁ  xed. Sure, exam proctors look out for things like words written on students’ bodies, phone 
use, notes in obvious places and wander-ing eyes. Although this has cer-
tainly led to some cheaters being caught, it is not enough.
The biggest problem with 
this lapse in ethical-judgment-turned-cultural-norm is the fact that it is increasingly not seen 
as wrong. If they’re not doing 
it to affect anyone but them-selves, why does it matter? May-be something came up, and he didn’t have time to study. May-
be she was sick and missed class. Maybe he needs to pull his grade up, and this is his last option. How can all cheating be viewed as equal?
The issue here is largely societal. The 
one kid who cheats on the test isn’t per-petuating the issue as much as the other kid who laughs at it and high-ﬁ  ves him. The girl who plagiarized is at fault, but 
so is her friend who told her it wasn’t a 
big deal in the library at 3 a.m. when the friend wanted to go home.
I will never accuse those who cheat of 
not being at fault, but in order to change 
this cultural issue, we need to change our 
attitudes about it. This won’t happen over-night, but I hope next time your classmate brags about cheating, you stand up for 
what is right. Tell him or her that it isn’t 
OK. Report him or her to your professor. And don’t cheat yourself. Put in the work. You’ll get so much more out of it, includ-
ing a better view of yourself. Eventually, 
cheating will come back to haunt you. Is a slightly better grade worth a bad self-
image? You are not your grades, so don’t 
lower yourself and your values as if the opposite were true.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology 
and journalism sophomore. Her column 
appears on Mondays.Don’t cheat others, don’t cheat youColumn
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgAfter decades of existing 
with one another, both on and off campus, we still can’t seem to get along: Liberals and con-
servatives just don’t mix in prac-tice — but can we?
Within seconds, a relaxed 
conversation can switch to a no-holds-barred policy debate with a ﬁ  rework’s ferment. Simply utter-ing the words “I’m a liberal/conservative” is like playing with ﬁ  re, and unless you get a “So am I!” in response, you could get burned.
The charade is entertaining, but the us-
versus-them complex within the American party system seems like an unhealthy by-product of political discourse. Division on issues is OK — we wouldn’t be able to have good discussions without them — but livid-ity over a disagreement with your ideas is not.
Why do we get so angry with people on 
the basis of their political alignment? And when did liberal and conservative become pejorative terms?
It may not be as arbitrary as you think; a 
2009 University of Virginia study found lib-erals and conservatives tend to have differ-ent values when it comes to moral decisions. Out of ﬁ  ve moral foundations — avoidance of harm, fairness, loyalty, purity and re-spect of authority — liberals tend to base their moral compasses on fairness and the avoidance of harm the most; the other three aren’t considered as much. Conservatives, on the other hand, take all ﬁ  ve foundations into account, placing the most importance on avoidance of harm, fairness and loyalty, respectively.
The social issues that permeate the politi-
cal climate today are hugely important, and the moral foundations that one prioritizes informs how passionately he or she feels about those affairs. However, I think it takes a meticulously sharpened sense of maturity to look past one’s opposing views for the sake of civility. Liberals and conservatives both need to declare a cease ﬁ  re, ASAP.
No matter how passionate we are about 
an issue — whether it be abortion, same-sex marriage, illegal immigration or the death penalty — above all else, we absolutely must seek civility. The sucky, tough-as-nails truth about politics is we will never agree. Why would we be bafﬂ  ed, stricken or ﬁ  lled with fury when our peers happen to disagree?
This often-overlooked problem 
holds special signiﬁ  cance on col-lege campuses. We come to col-lege to cultivate understanding, 
and in this ﬁ  ery political atmosphere, now is a better time than ever to seek greater un-derstanding of others’ beliefs. So the next time you meet someone on the other side of the spectrum, don’t feign interest, half-smile and then go on a mental tirade. Learn some-thing, and try to understand. If you can’t do either, then at least have a pinch of respect for the person’s disposition.
Ideology isn’t one-sided — it’s multi-
faceted, and every liberal or conservative you’ve ever met has been slightly different. Avoid making assumptions about someone based on their political afﬁ  liation; the more often we assume before asking, the more division we create. George Washington warned against a two-party system, likely for this reason. Sadly, it takes either a great victory or a painful loss for Americans to unite. But we don’t always have those oc-casions — so what are we going to do in the meantime?
As this election season sprints to a con-
clusion (which I’m not mentally prepared for), let’s move forward not as liberals and conservatives, but as Americans; let’s also remember it’s OK to disagree, even on polar-izing issues.
Sometimes, the widest divides within 
American culture are the divides that we create ourselves. That being said, here’s an idea: Let’s focus less on uniting within our parties and focus more on uniting all Ameri-cans, liberals and conservatives alike. Reject the stereotypes that paint ideological groups in a negative fashion; reject the us-versus-them mentality of modern politics. Rather, accept and embrace the differences that make our political system one of the most robust and colorful of its kind.
A version of this column by Justin Janu-
ary originally ran in The Emory Wheel.
Left and right: Why can't we be friends?Column
“You are not your 
grades, so don't lower 
yourself and your 
values.”Justin January
UWire8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
UF Danza Dance Company performs at Soulfest inside the Phillips 
Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday night.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Local organization Menagerie In Motion drives a human-powered gator down University Avenue during the UF Homecoming Parade on Friday. The group’s featured machines ranged from horseshoe crabs to unicorns.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Members of the UF Fightin’ Gator Marching Band and color guard walk down University Avenue during the annual UF Homecoming Parade on Friday afternoon.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
Saneh Ste. Claire and Brendon “BJ” Jonassaint smile after being named UF’s 2016 Homecoming Queen and King. The winners were announced at Gator Growl on Friday.
A HOMECOMING 
TO REMEMBERMONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Laura Palacio / Alligator 
The crowd Gator Chomps in spirit of this year’s UF Homecoming Parade on Friday 
on West University Avenue.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Sabor Latino Dance T eam reacts after winning top Soulfest act at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday night. They later performed at Gator Growl. 
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
From left: UF students Richard Minichiello and Sarah Galante laugh while facing the rain before the UF Homecoming football game on Saturday afternoon. They “couldn’t believe they got soaked, ” said Galante.
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff 
Despite the rain, fans walk down the closed-off University Avenue to Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Saturday afternoon for the UF Homecoming football game.
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
The crowd cheers as the Gator Growl hosts take a selfie. Performers at Friday’s event included Maddie & T ae, Waka Flocka Flame, Timeflies and Passion Pit.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-21-16-17-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
STAINLESS STEEL KEGERATOR
Like new condition, complete with manual, 
gas tank & gauges. $350 firm cash. Call 352-
591-2323    10-19-16-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosMONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Designated drivers are the greatestThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Solidifies
5 Extends, as a
building
11 Triple __: liqueur
14 Golfer Aoki
15 Unfortunate
event
16 Thurman of “Kill
Bill”
17 Noir film
temptress
19 Writing
implement
20 Therapeutic
ointment
21 Tenants23 Engineer Nikola25 “__F!”: pre-
weekend cry
27 Homer
Simpson’s wife
28 Football-like sport
played with adisc
31 Falsehood32 __ Angeles33 ’50s prez34 Kareem’s former
name
35 Dangerous
current
37 Female pronoun40 Cupid’s mo.41 Year, in Spain42 Ate
43 Close kin
49 “__ Rae”
50 “__ who?!”
51 Execs, or outfits
hanging in theirclosets
52 Goes on the
offensive
54 Gentle55 Life story, briefly56 Ironic change in
destiny ... and,literally, whathappens in thispuzzle’s circles
61 Egg cells
62 Transition slowly63 __ out a living64 Crossed (out)65 Same-as-above
marks
66 Fender damage
DOWN
1 Animated
Internet file suffix
2 Suffix with Siam3 Meaty dish that
would make
Mary sad?
4 Mogadishu native
5 Radio band-
switching switch
6 Day, in Spain7 Hrs. that begin
when we “spring
forward”
8 “Doctor Zhivago”
actor Omar
9 “Tall” story
10 Amateur night at
a comedy club,e.g.
11 Exquisite12 Come into view
13 As far as the 
eye __
18 Jack of old
Westerns
22 Stun with a gun
23 Rock’s Jethro __24 Nobelist Wiesel25 Sporty sunroof26 Develop in the
womb
29 “I was with my
girlfriend allnight,” say
30 No longer
encumbered by
35 Edited36 “Mockingbird”
singer Foxx
37 Asian mushroom
with an odd
spelling
38 “Freeze!”
39 Breyers competitor
40 Storm relief org.43 Packed up for
shipping
44 Whodunit reason
45 “The Wind in the
Willows” croaker46 Help out47 Dating from
48 Bungled53 “The Bridge on
the River __”
54 Daughters’
brothers
57 Part of a tennis
match
58 Padre’s hermano
59 On a scale of one
to __
60 Approx. figure
By Carolyn Farmer and Mary Lou Guizzo©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/17/1610/17/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, October 17, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. In 2015, Washington’s Bryce 
Harper became the fourth player since 
1914 to score four runs in a game 
without registering an official at-bat. 
Name two of the other three to do it.
2. Who was the only pitcher to have 
more major-league wins during the 
decade of the 1940s than Cleveland’s Bob Feller (137)?
3. When was the last time before 
2015 that the University of Cincinnati beat the University of Miami (Fla.) in football?
4. Name the first team in NBA histo-
ry to win four consecutive Game Ones on the road in the playoffs.
5. Who was the first Capitals team-
mate of Alex Ovechkin to tally more points than him for an NHL season?
6. The U.S. men’s soccer team is 
among seven nations to qualify for each of the past seven World Cups. 
Name three of the other six countries.
7. How many pro fights did Cas-
sius Clay (aka Muhammad Ali) have before fighting Sonny Liston for box-ing’s heavyweight title in 1964?
Answers
1. Larry Doby (1951), Joe Morgan 
(1973) and Rickey Henderson (1989).
2. Hal Newhouser, with 170 wins.3. It was 1947.4. The Washington Wizards (2014-
15).
5. Evgeny Kuznetsov outscored him 
77 points to 71 points in the 2015-16 season.
6. Argentina, Brazil, Germany, Italy, 
South Korea and Spain.
7. He had 19 pro fights, winning 
them all.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 17, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PT cleaner needed ASAP for homes, apart-ments, & offices. Weekly pay/8.50 hr; Must have/use own transportation. If interested please call 352-214-0868; gas paid for driving to numerous places in a shift....10-18-5-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-18-16-5-14
P/T front desk receptionist for dental office in Haile Plantation in Gainesville. Afternoon and evening hours. $12-16 per hour. Send CV to gdentaljob@gmail.com. No phone calls please.              10-18-16-3-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Jalen T abor and the Florida 
football team finished the weekend with a 40-14 homecoming win over Missouri. Check out the photo story, pg. 14 Florida rises in national poll
The Florida Gators football team moved up to No. 15 in the latest Associated 
Press Poll, released on Sunday. UF had entered the weekend ranked No. 18. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
When the Florida volleyball team 
marched into Reed Arena to face 
defending Southeastern Conference champion Texas A&M on Sunday af-ternoon, the Gators were expecting a battle.
And they got one.In a hard-fought fourth set in Col-
lege Station, Texas, Florida led 24-16 with a chance to put the match away. 
The Aggies' junior hitter Ashlie 
Reasor, who bothered Florida’s de-fense throughout the contest, went up for a kill to get her team back into the match.
And as if she launched off a 
springboard, UF’s 6-foot-4 middle blocker Rhamat Alhassan rocketed into the air, slamming the ball back toward the other side of the court for a block, simultaneously silencing the crowd and A&M’s comeback bid.
The No. 9 Gators (16-2, 6-1 SEC) 
defeated the Aggies (11-7, 5-2 SEC) in four sets, and Alhassan deserved most of the credit. The junior All-American had a career night, slam-ming down 22 kills to the tune of a .528 hitting percentage. 
She was also responsible for 27.5 
of the Gators’ points and registered 10 total blocks for her first double-double of the season.
“Rhamat put on one of the best 
performances of any Gator of all time,” UF coach Mary Wise said. “She was that special.”
Florida opened the first set on a 
5-0 run, but A&M fought back. Led by Reasor, who had seven kills in the first set, the Aggies pushed the Gators to the brink. 
But with Florida leading 26-25, 
redshirt junior outside hitter Shainah Joseph rose up for a block to give the Gators an early 1-0 lead in the match.
In the second frame, it was all 
A&M. The Gators had no answer for the Aggies’ one-two punch of Kiara McGee and Hollann Hans, who com-bined for seven kills in the 25-21 win in set 2. 
The Gators, fueled by the offense 
and defense of Alhassan and senior Alex Holston, who was second on the team with 17 kills, began the third set on an 8-3 run.
But yet again, the Aggies refused 
to go away, responding with a series of rallies aided by the hard hitting of McGee and Hans, who tallied 14 kills apiece.
However, with her team up 24-
23, Joseph, who struggled with her hitting for much of the match, con-nected on a flat-footed tip shot that gave the Gators a 2-1 lead in the match. 
And despite A&M’s resolve and 
quick offense, Florida’s skill proved to be too much.
The Gators dominated the fourth 
and final set 25-16, holding the Ag-gies to a lowly .027 hitting percent-age in the process.
Wise said Florida had a difficult 
time adjusting to A&M’s attack early on but credited the play of her team’s defense as a significant part of a win with huge conference implications.
With the victory, the Gators now 
sit third in the conference standings behind No. 23 Kentucky and Mis-souri, who are both undefeated in SEC play.
“Major, major respect for this 
program,” Wise said of A&M. “We’re just fortunate that tonight we got the better of them.” 
A radio broadcast contributed to 
this report.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgAlhassan powers Florida to road win over Aggies 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
South Carolina’s Eugene E. Stone III Sta-
dium is nicknamed “The Graveyard.” It’s supposed to be where opponents’ 
dreams come to die. 
And with Florida’s 1-0 double overtime 
loss on Sunday, Stone claimed another vic-tim.The No. 17 Gators (10-4, 5-3 Southeast-
ern Conference) came in trying to defend a four-game winning streak while No. 2 South Carolina (14-0-1, 8-0 SEC) was riding 13 consecutive wins. 
“It was a really competitive game with 
two top teams battling each other,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said in a release. “I’m sure it was fun to watch because 
there definitely were some moments when both teams had their chances.”
Both teams started the game slow on of-
fense, going into halftime scoreless.
In the second half, both teams got good 
looks on offense but weren’t able to capital-Gators' offense stifled by No. 2 South Carolina on roadJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (1) celebrates with her teammates during Florida's win over Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Center.
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 16FLORIDA 3, TEXAS A&M 1
2OT: FLORIDA 0, SOUTH CAROLINA 1
Florida had won four straight 14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Quincy Wilson (6) stiff-arms Missouri running back Damarea Crockett on his way to a 78-yard interception return for a touchdown during Florida’s 40-14 win. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Running back Mark Thompson (24) fumbles in the rain during Saturday’s game. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Running back Jordan Scarlett is hoisted in the air by offensive lineman Jawaan T aylor  
(65) during the Florida win over Missouri on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Freshman wideout Tyrie Cleveland drops a pass during Florida’s win.MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Gators will return to Atlanta for the 
SEC Championship for the second-
straight season. It’s a feat Florida 
hasn’t accomplished since the 2008 and 2009 seasons.
“We can’t get complacent,” said 
sophomore running back Jordan Scarlett. “We can’t get comfortable. We’ve got to go out every game.”
That starts with getting more 
production out of the offense.
Even with 523 yards of offense 
on Saturday, the group manufac-tured just 19 of Florida’s 40 points. 
The rest came from a pair of inter-
ceptions returned for touchdowns and an onside kick return for a touchdown from Antonio Callaway in the waning minutes of the game.
Luke Del Rio was erratic in his 
first start back from injury, complet-ing 18 of his 38 pass attempts and throwing three interceptions within 
a span of eight passes in the middle 
of the game.
The offense was also penalized 
with eight false starts, including one on a two-point conversion attempt.
“We did some really good things,” UF coach Jim McElwain 
said, “and then you shoot yourself 
in the foot. It’s hard to limp back.”
The defense, on the other hand, 
churned out another solid outing.
Florida held Missouri to 363 
yards of offense, 160 of which came on its final two drives after the game was already out of reach. Quarter-back Drew Lock, who led the SEC 
in passing yards heading into the 
game (336.5 yards/game), complet-ed just four passes and was pulled from the game late in the fourth quarter. Florida’s defense had more total yards from interception returns (117) than Missouri had total pass-
ing yards (98).
“That just shows me and every-
body else how much this team has 
matured,” defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson said, “and that we’re on a mission to wreck everything in our way.”
Of the Tigers’ 16 drives, nine 
ended in three and outs. Three end-
ed in turnovers.
The Gators have an off week to 
work out the kinks before returning 
to action against Georgia, a team that has lost 17-16 to Vanderbilt on Saturday and three of its past four games.
Florida will evaluate its perfor-
mance up to this point in the season and prepare for what’s to come.
“We’re a young team, but it’s 
part of growing up,” Del Rio said. “I think I need to do a better job at leading guys and maintaining positivity even when things do go wrong, and it’s not easy. But this is 
the reality of it.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 1Florida’s offense scored only 19 of the team’s 40 points
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio prepares to throw during Florida’s win over Missouri. Del Rio completed 
18-of-38 passes for 236 yards, one touchdown and three interceptions.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor motions to the crowd following teammate Quincy Wilson’s interception on Saturday. T abor had two total tackles and returned an interception for a touchdown.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman T aven Bryan tackles Missouri quarterback Drew Lock during Saturday’s homecoming game. 
16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2016
GOLF
WOMEN: FINISHED TIED FOR 4TH AT STANFORD 
INTERCOLLEGIATE
T8. T aylor T omlinson  +2 (144)T18. Marta Perez   +5 (147)T34. Maria T orres  +8 (150)
T38. Carlotta Ricolﬁ    +9 (151)
T66. Karolina Vlckova  +13 (155)
MEN:  TIED FOR 1ST AFTER ROUND 1 AT TAVISTOCK COLLEGIATE
T4. Jorge Garcia   -3 (69)T6. Alejandro T osti  -2 (70)T9. Sam Horsﬁ  eld   -1 (71)T26. Gordon Neale  +1 (73)T43. Andy Zhang   +3 (75)
ize due to both sides' stiﬂ  ing de-fensive efforts.
So for the third time in four 
years, it took double overtime to 
determine a winner.
And Florida ﬂ  inched ﬁ  rst.
In the 103rd minute, redshirt ju-
nior Kristen Cardano fouled South Carolina’s Chelsea Drennan in the 
box, giving her the opportunity for 
a penalty kick.
She capitalized. 
Drennan shot the ball over the 
hands of Florida goalkeeper Kay-
lan Marckese, giving the Game-
cocks their 14th-consecutive win 
— a new program record — and keeping their hopes of an unde-feated season alive.
The Gators are now 2-2 in 
games decided by overtime this season.
The match also marked the 
third time this season that Florida 
has been shut out after its 1-0 over-
time loss at then-No. 4 Stanford on Aug. 26 and its 3-0 home loss to Auburn on Sept. 22.
But while the loss might sting, 
the Gators must mend their prob-lems quickly and turn their atten-tion to their next SEC game.
Florida will travel back to 
Gainesville to host Alabama on Thursday and Missouri on Sunday.
“I think we learned a lot about 
ourselves,” Burleigh said. 
“Tonight we learned more and 
we’re going to continue to develop and grow aiming towards the post-season.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org SOCCER,  from pg 13UF plays 'Bama on Thurs.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jorge Garcia tees off at the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. Garcia  leads Florida at 3 under par after the ﬁ  rst round of the T avistock Collegiate.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan (7) ﬁ  ghts for possession during UF's win over Iowa State at James G. Pressly Stadium.
