 By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Austin Appleby wasn’t happy 
as he stood behind the lectern, the 
place where Luke Del Rio should 
have been standing.
Following Florida’s 32-0 blow-
out win over North Texas on Satur-
day, it was not joy from the victory 
across Appleby’s face. It was grief.
“My heart breaks for him,” he 
said of Del Rio. “You want to come 
here and get an opportunity to play, but you don’t want to see one 
of your friends get hurt.” 
About an hour before, Appleby 
watched as the North Texas de-
fensive end rammed into Del Rio’s 
left knee. He watched as the quar-
terback dropped to the ground and didn’t get up, watched as Jim McElwain jogged on to the ﬁ  eld and berated the referee before he 
was restrained by several of his 
players.
“I care about these kids. They’re 
mine,” McElwain said. “When I see something like that, it isn’t right.”
Del Rio limped back to the lock-
er room to be replaced by Appleby, 
who ﬁ  nished UF’s blowout by com-
pleting 2-of-4 passes for 30 yards.
By then, the game was decided. 
But Florida’s quarterback situation 
was not.
“To be honest, when you lose 
your starting quarterback, it’s al-
ways gonna raise a couple eye-brows,” cornerback Jalen Tabor 
said. “But the quarterback posi-
tion is only as good as the people around him, and the people around him are only as good as the quar-
terback position.”
With Del Rio reportedly out for 
at least 2-4 weeks with a sprained 
MCL, Appleby will likely start Sat-urday against No. 14 Tennessee. 
Beyond Appleby, McElwain’s op-
tions are limited. Freshmen quar-terbacks Feleipe Franks and Kyle Trask are both available, but both 
are much less experienced than 
Appleby, a graduate transfer from We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 20 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
Del Rio injured in Florida’s win over 
North Texas
See our photo story, pg. 14 
Pence discusses tax cuts and immigration
He spoke at a rally near Ocala on Saturday, pg. 3
Students host Physics laser tag tournament 
It took place in the lobby of UF’s Physics Building, pg. 5Students celebrate Mid-Autumn Festival
See our photo story, pg. 9
Grace King / Alligator Staff
UF athletic trainers kneel next to injured quarterback Luke Del Rio during UF’s 32-0 win against the University of North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Del Rio was hurt after an illegal hit from a North T exas defender in the third quarter. “My heart goes out to him, my heart breaks for him, ” UF quarterback Austin Appleby said. “The hit was very dirty in my mind. ”QUESTIONS AT QUARTERBACK  FLORIDA 32
  NORTH TEXAS 0
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14
FUCHS IS BEING 
CONSIDERED FOR THE 
NATIONAL 
SCIENCE BOARD.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
President Barack Obama announced 
his intention to appoint UF President Kent Fuchs as a member of the Nation-
al Science Board and National Science 
Foundation.
On Friday, the White House sent out 
a release of the intended appointments. 
Obama can make the appointment him-self, meaning the decision doesn’t need to be heard by Congress.
The ofﬁ  cial appointment will be be-
fore Obama’s presidential term ends in December, but Fuchs said he expects it in the near future.
“These ﬁ  ne public servants bring a 
depth of experience and tremendous dedication to their important roles,” President Obama said in a press release. “I look forward to working with them.”
Fuchs said he was nominated by 
Hunter R. Rawlings III, a former Associa-tion of American Universities president whom Fuchs knew from his time at Cor-nell University.
“I feel grateful for the opportunity, 
and secondly, I’m really glad to serve,” Fuchs said. “We want increasingly more University of Florida faculty and lead-ers involved in helping the nation set its policy around areas that impact our university.” Obama plans to appoint UF president to national board
THE BAR HAD CLOSED
DURING SUMMER.
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
After a summer hiatus, Balls Bar 
looked like its old self Thursday.
Dozens of students and residents ﬂ  ooded the small Midtown bar, 
basking in cheap drinks and spray-painted walls for the ﬁ  rst time in sev-eral months.
The bar, located at 1716 W. 
University Ave., had been closed since Spring due to “administrative issues,” said McCabe Harrison, a lawyer who was appointed to over-see the property following the 2013 death of William Coville Chick III, the bar’s former owner.
The management and staff have 
been overhauled, Harrison said, but no other changes are planned.
Harrison, a UF alumnus who 
graduated in 2009, said Balls has become more popular since he was a college student  — and that excite-ment was palpable Thursday night.
“I think that Balls is more of a 
Gainesville institution now than it was when I was an undergraduate here,” he said, “so people were re-ally eager to have it back.”
When Balls closed, Cat McCarty, 
a 21-year-old UF biology senior, was upset her favorite bar had disap-peared, she said.
Since the beginning of Fall, the 
Midtown vacancy grew even more pronounced, she said.
On Thursday afternoon, McCar-
ty’s friends at the neighboring Salty Dog Saloon sent her a text message 
 Midtown patrons rejoice as Balls Bar reopens for businessFuchs
SEE FUCHS,  PAGE 4
SEE BALLS,  PAGE 4
Del Rio’s out, Appleby’s in
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Improve your public-speaking 
skills
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area 
Drive, Room 1031. For details, 
go to talkinggators.toastmaster-
sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. 
Free English and citizenship 
classesThe Latina Women’s League is offering free English classes Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Millhopper Branch public li-brary. Anyone looking to im-prove his or her conversational English can attend. The league is also offering free citizenship classes every Thursday until 
Oct. 20 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
at the library, during which at-
tendees can learn about the 
process of citizenship. For more information, visit latinawom-
ensleague.org.
UF’s Study Abroad Fair
Save the date for UF’s Study 
Abroad Fair on the North Lawn 
on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 
3 p.m. Study abroad programs 
help students discover new cul-
tures, increase global aware-ness, enhance foreign language skills, make new friends and es-
tablish new contacts. Overseas 
internship opportunities are 
available. Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-
ter the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 20
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-
376-4458 or email editor@alligator.
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
HE WENT TO THE UF 
FOOTBALL GAME AFTER 
HIS RALL Y.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Jason Burns drove two hours 
Saturday in hopes of getting his red 
hat signed by Mike Pence.
As he arrived at The Villages’ 
Savannah Center a little past noon, 
the 19-year-old wrapped a blue 
“Trump: Make America Great Again” banner around his shoul-ders. Pence’s rally marked Burns’ 
eighth rally for the Trump cam-
paign but his ﬁ  rst for the Indiana 
governor.
The audience cheered as Burns, 
a University of Central Florida 
student, walked with the banner 
draped from his shoulders and 
stood in front of Pence’s podium, on which the vice presidential nominee would later discuss immi-
gration, cutting taxes and repealing 
the Affordable Care Act.
After Pence took the stage to ap-
plause from about 800 people, he 
criticized Hillary Clinton for say-
ing Trump supporters belong in a 
“basket of deplorables” at a gala 
Sept. 9.
“Hillary Clinton, they are not a 
basket of deplorables — they are Americans,” he said. “The other 
side just has a campaign of insults, 
they really do.”
Pence told the crowd Trump 
knows the average American who 
works with their hands, adding the 
presidential candidate gets along just as well with the guy laying 
bricks as the one in the accounting 
ﬁ  rm. 
Electing Clinton would usher in 
liberal Supreme Court justices and 
what would essentially be a third 
term for Obama, he said. 
In turn, on his ﬁ  rst day in ofﬁ  ce, 
Trump would cut taxes across the 
board, lower pension taxes, repeal 
the Affordable Care Act and put a 
moratorium on new federal regula-
tions, Pence said. 
He also told the crowd Trump 
would build a wall along the U.S.-
Mexico border to keep out illegal 
immigrants, eliciting chants of 
“build the wall.”
“I guarantee you this: If you 
want a president who will upend 
the status quo in Washington...you 
just have one choice,” he said.
Pence called on Floridians to 
vote for Trump before entering the crowd to meet his supporters. 
People thrusted signs, rosary beads 
and clothes at him. Burns made a 
beeline for his one chance.
In the end, Pence signed the brim of the his cap with a black 
marker.
After the rally, Pence headed to 
Gainesville to watch the UF football 
team play the University of North 
Texas. Watching a Gators game 
had been on his bucket list, Pence said. He later posted on Twitter a photo of him getting off the plane in Gainesville. 
“You guys know how to play 
some football,” Pence said at the 
rally.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  Pence discusses tax cuts and immigration
Dick Clapp, 73, peered above the 
“Trump Pence 2016” signs on his dashboard as he weaved through roundabouts Saturday. At 11 a.m., he was one of the ﬁ  rst to arrive to see vice presidential nominee Mike Pence.
His 1929-Ford replica was a testa-
ment to his support for the Republican ticket, he said. Half a dozen American ﬂ  ags decorated the red car. They’ve been there since the primaries in March, he said.
The Villages resident said he’s been 
a Trump supporter since the billion-aire real-estate mogul ﬁ  rst announced he would run.
On Friday, he took his support to 
the streets, joining others in dressing up golf carts for the Indiana governor’s arrival. During the parade through the retirement community, Trump imper-sonator Stan Swies rode in Clapp’s back seat.
Swies, a 72-year-old resident of 
The Villages, travels the state dressed as Trump to educate others about him.
He started in March after he got the 
idea while attending a masquerade party where he posed as Trump, Swies said. But you can tell him apart from Trump by his mustache, he said.
Between rallies in Tampa, Jack-
sonville and other Florida cities, he’s worn out one suit. He’s still searching for the perfect plain red tie.
With a “Police Lives Matter” but-
ton on his lapel, dozens asked to get a photo with Swies outside the Savan-nah Center. As he posed, he told them how Trump will make America secure.
His goal isn’t publicity, Swies said, 
it’s just to spread Trump’s message.
“From now until the election, I’ll be 
walking around the square like this,” Swies said.
- Caitlin OstroffT aylor Cook / Alligator Staff  
Dick Clapp, 73, a resident of The Villages, Florida, sits on his 1929-Ford replica with Donald Trump and Mike Pence signage on Saturday. Clapp said Fox News had his car on their program on Friday before the rally.
DECKED 
OUT FOR 
DONALD
T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff  
Donald Trump’s vice presidential candidate, Mike Pence, speaks to his supporters on Saturday afternoon in The Villages, Florida, during a rally. “People who support (Donald Trump’s) team are hardworking American men and women, they are students…they are members of our armed forces, ” said Pence. “Hillary Clinton, they are not a basket of deplorables. “ They are Americans. ”•   •   •   •   •
•   •   •   •   •4   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
THE MEMO STATES MOD-
ELS OF THE GRADUATE 
PROGRAM  ARE ‘BROKEN. ’
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A memo addressed to ad-
ministrators of UF’s Levin Col-
lege of Law asking them to cut the graduate taxation program is causing students and faculty to 
speak out.
Faculty members in the pro-
gram met with about 50 students 
Friday to discuss a memo sent out Sept. 9 by UF law professor Robert J. Rhee, who credited the program entirely at fault for de-clining student enrollment.
The 24-page document was 
addressed to The University of Florida Law Center Association Inc., the Florida Alumni Tax Ad-visory Committee, UF Law Dean Laura Ann Rosenbury, Associ-ate Dean Amy Mashburn and UF Provost Joe Glover.
“The tax program loses mon-
ey for UF Law, and its fiscal mod-
el is unsound,” the memo stated.
But Lyrissa Lidsky, the asso-
ciate dean for graduate and non-
J.D. programs, said Rhee’s memo is wrong.
“To have a memo out from a 
member of my faculty that’s un-fair and distorting and painful to students is just devastating, especially when it’s such an in-credible group of students,” Lid-sky said.
During the meeting, officials 
expressed their disgust with the memo.
“Wherever you go in life, 
there’s going to be some bad ap-ples and bomb-throwers, and un-fortunately, we have one,” said UF law professor Steven Willis.
Students spoke about having 
Rhee removed, but Lidsky, who is also a  First Amendment law-yer, said it may be difficult due to 
his free speech rights.
“You don’t always agree with 
what they say and even more so, 
how they say it,” she told the stu-dents.
Jamie Koepsel, a UF taxation 
graduate student, said the reve-nue figures Rhee used to describe how the tax program “is broken” 
are not accurate.  “They don’t 
fairly represent what the tax pro-gram actually contributes to the university from an accounting standpoint,” the 28-year-old said.
Koepsel said how the law 
school’s administration responds is more important.
“What’s really going to make 
the biggest difference is the re-sponse as it plays out in the fu-ture over the next few weeks,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgUF law students, 
faculty discuss controversial memo
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF announced a $100 million 
plan Friday to revamp its athletic 
facilities, including building a stand-alone football complex and renova-tions to its baseball and softball sta-
diums.
UF athletic director Jeremy Foley 
presented the plan to the University 
Athletic Association board Friday, but he said UF still needs a way to fund the project. The most likely path, Foley said, will come from bor-rowed money and donations.
“I think there’s a lot of momen-
tum building in our program on different levels, and I think these things are going to keep us moving forward,” Foley said.The new football facility will 
be built to the north of UF’s James G. Pressly Stadium and next to the 
Sanders Practice Fields, and it will 
include a lobby, weight room, train-ing areas and a player locker room.
The new 100,000-square-foot 
football complex, which will also contain a player nutrition station, will be built next to a new dining hall that will be reserved for UF’s varsity student athletes.
Additions to UF’s baseball sta-
dium include shade structures over portions of McKethan Stadium seat-ing, additional seats behind home plate and an expanded press box.
Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium 
will receive up to 1,000 additional seats for softball games, upgraded team facilities, chair-back seating behind home plate and an expanded press box.
“There’s momentum building 
here,” Foley said. “Obviously win-ning helps.”
UF’s athletic-facilities proposal 
comes nearly a year after UF com-pleted its $17 million indoor practice facility and three months before its $65 million Stephen O’Connell Cen-ter renovations are set to be com-plete in December.
“At the end of the day, obviously 
these things are going to help us re-cruit, help us be successful,” Foley said. “These facilities will enhance that, but it’s not the end-all, be-all. If you have good coaches, you’re go-ing to get good athletes, and we’ve shown that time and time again around here.”
UF announces $100 million plan 
to improve athletic facilities
with the good news, she said.
When she got there at 8 p.m., the 
crowd was small. But as the hours 
passed, throngs of people packed the tiny bar, she said.
“It was my favorite bar in Midtown,” 
she said. “I’m glad it’s back.”
Tyler Mosley, a 21-year-old UF busi-
ness management senior, visited Balls twice over the weekend. Although he was happy the bar had reopened, Mos-ley said he felt disappointed to see the bar’s old staff — most of whom were his friends — had either left or been re-placed.
When it closed, rumors that Balls 
had been caught serving alcohol to minors spread, said Carlo Valencia, a 28-year-old UF alumnus. He said he en-joyed the bar because its prices could never be beat, although sometimes it would get so packed he could not even reach a bartender.
Despite now living in Ecuador, Va-
lencia said he would be back at Balls in November for the upcoming UF football game against the University of South Carolina.
“I’m so excited to be able to go to 
Balls again,” he said.He said the bar, with its large crowds 
and often muggy climate, was the pin-
nacle of the college experience.
“Some people love, and others don’t 
love, Balls,” he said. “I personally don’t care about getting sweaty in Balls, but 
some people might not like that idea.”
@Jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org
BALLS,  from pg. 1The bar has been closed since Spring semester
On social media, the 
announcement was well-
received.
“Gators can do good sci-
ence policy for sure!” one 
commenter posted.
Fuchs said his back-
ground in overseeing elec-
trical and computer engi-neering programs at Cornell University as a provost and now being UF’s president made him stand out as a candidate.
Fuchs didn’t know he 
was nominated until he 
received a call about two 
months ago from the White House Office of Presidential Personnel saying he was under consideration and they were going to launch a background check, he said.
The board consists of 25 
people, all of whom are ap-pointed by a U.S. president. Eight members are appoint-ed once every two years. The board oversees the foundation and provides advice to Congress and the President on the nation’s science and engineering research and policy, Fuchs said.
“To be one of those 
20-some individuals is, I believe, important to the university and also brings visibility to the university,” he said.
The board doesn’t cur-
rently have anyone from Florida and hasn’t had a member from UF in many years, Fuchs said.
If Fuchs is officially ap-
pointed, he said he plans to work to increase the budget for the foundation and see those funds go to universi-ties for scholarships.
“The federal govern-
ment funding of scholar-ship at universities is just so important, so I’m go-ing to work my hardest to be an advocate of the Na-tional Science Foundation,” Fuchs said. FUCHS,  from pg. 1No board members 
are from Florida
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
A group of students walks past Balls Bar on West University Avenue on 
Sunday evening. Balls opened on Thursday night after closing this Spring.
Courtesy to the Alligator
A rendering of UF’s plan for a new stand-alone football complex. The 100,000 square-foot facility will include a weight room, locker room and training areas.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Apple released its new iPhone 
7 on Friday, a handful of eager stu-
dents and residents circled a phone-filled table at the Archer Road Best Buy.
By the end of the day, the iPhone 7 Plus, one of two iPhone 7 models, had sold out, a sales representative  
who declined to give his name said. 
Prices range from $649 to $769 de-pending on the model.
Some customers said they looked 
forward to the phone’s features like its water resistance, improved cam-era and touch-screen home button.Anastasia Accarpio, a UF com-
puter science freshman, said she 
was looking forward to the im-
proved 12-megapixel camera and the home button change the most.
“I’m excited for the technology 
‘cause I know a lot about it, and I do a lot of research,” the 18-year-old said.Noah Guisuraga, a high-school 
student from New York, said he was 
excited to purchase the phone de-spite Apple’s decision to not include a headphone jack, a move many 
have criticized since the company’s 
announcement.
“I feel like they didn’t need to 
change it or anything,” the 17-year-old said, “but they felt like it’d be better without a jack.”
Morgan Sutton, 21, a UF political science senior, said she was most looking forward to the phone’s wa-ter resistance.
However, she said that if it 
weren’t free for her to upgrade to 
the iPhone 7, she probably would 
not have purchased it. 
She said Apple did not offer 
enough new features to warrant a big-ticket buy like that.
“It’s free, that’s why I did it,” 
Sutton said. Amid opening day rush, iPhone 7 Plus sells out in some GNV stores
Apple released the new phone FridayA Gainesville woman tried to hit two other  women with her car Sunday morning, Gainesville Police said.
At about 1 a.m. Sunday, Alicia Nicole Walk-
er, 22, drove two women from a nightclub for 
$7 in gas money. However, once Walker drove 
them to the 1700 block of NE Eighth Ave., they asked for their money back, according to the report.
The two didn’t feel the ride was worth $7, 
according to the report.
At this, Walker became irate, shifting her 
car into drive and attempting to run one of the women over, according to the report. The 
woman barely moved out of the way in time.
After multiple attempts to hit the women, 
Walker drove away quickly and erratically 
before crashing into a pole, according to the report. The second woman said she was afraid Walker would run them over.
Police arrested Walker 
on charges of aggravated 
assault and criminal mis-
chief. Authorities took her 
to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, she remains without bond.
On Saturday night during 
the UF football game, Uni-versity Police ejected three 
fans for alcohol possession, five for disorderly conduct, 11 for intoxication, three for smoking 
and one for not having a ticket, according to a 
statement issued by UPD.
One was arrested for trespassing after warn-
ing and two for resisting.Local woman tries to run over 
passengers after $7 car ride         
A UF student struck a man in the face with 
a beer bottle Friday at Midtown, Gainesville 
Police said.
At about midnight, Daniel R. Lubeski 
grabbed a beer from 21-year-old Jackson 
Robert Hynes, who bought the beer for a 
woman at 1702 W. University Ave., accord -
ing to a police report.
Lubeski handed the beer to the woman, 
which provoked Hynes, according to the re -
port.
Hynes then struck Lubeski over his left 
eye with a Bud Light bottle, leaving a small cut about an inch long, according to the re
-
port.
Hynes is listed as a student in UF’s online 
student directory.
Lubeski told police the woman had asked him to get the beer from Hynes, whom she 
called a friend, according to the report.
Upon receiving the 
beer — a Corona Light — the woman thanked Lubeski. And as the two spoke, Hynes hit him.
GPD recovered a bro
-
ken Bud Light bottle from an employee, according 
to the report. The employee found it on the floor near where the incident occurred.
Hynes declined to comment on the arrest.
Police arrested Hynes on a charge of ag
-
gravated battery. Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where he was later re -
leased.GPD: UF student hit man in 
the face with a beer bottle
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A downtown scuffle escalated 
Friday after someone pulled out a 
rifle.
At about 2 a.m. Friday, four Flor-
ida men got into a fight with James 
Garrett Smith at 300 W. University 
Ave., near Flaco’s Cuban Bakery & 
Coffee, according to a police report.
Jeffrey Wayne Bowyer, 23, of 
Jacksonville, started the fight by hit-
ting Smith until he lost conscious-ness, according to the report. Caleb Benjamin Sullivan, 19, of Sanderson; Storm 
Garrett Miller, 20, 
of McClenny; and 
Jacob Tyler Theo-
phile, 19, of Glen St. Mary, then be-
gan punching Smith repeatedly.
Amid the punches, a bystander 
grabbed a rifle from his car, loaded 
it with a single bullet and yelled for the men to stop, according to the 
report. He said Bowyer and Miller 
had talked about killing him.
Bowyer then punched the by-
stander in the face and took the weapon before striking Smith in the head with the rifle’s butt, according to the 
report. Bowyer told police he 
took the rifle 
because he was afraid of being 
shot.
Smith was taken to the hospital 
with serious injuries, and the by-stander was taken for minor inju-ries, according to the report.
Police arrested Miller and Bow-
yer on charges of felony battery, and Sullivan and Theophile on 
charges of simple battery. Authori-
ties took them to the Alachua Coun-
ty Jail where Sullivan, Miller and 
Theophile were later released.
As of press time, Bowyer remains 
in jail in lieu of a $70,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgDuring late-night brawl downtown, man pulls out rifleHynes
Bowyer
 Miller
 Sullivan
 Theophile
Walker
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Nicole Acosta leapt behind 
cardboard barriers in the lobby of 
UF’s Physics Building on Friday night, dodging opponents who aimed at her with infrared lasers.
“There’s no factor of pain, and 
the reload is easy,” the 20-year-old UF psychology junior said.
About 25 students ran around 
the Physics Building as part of a la-ser tag tournament put on by two student organizations, the Astron-omy and Astrophysics Society and the Society of Physics Students. The groups hosted the first game of the Fall, which aimed to raise money for students to attend a No-vember conference.
“The physics department is 
quite uneventful,” Matias Delgado said. “When the department found out someone wanted to host an event in the lobby, the chair was shocked.”
The 22-year-old UF physics ju-
nior, who helped put together the event, said the organizations were 
able to use the space for free, but 
they needed approval from the university.
The goal of the event was to 
send four UF physics students to attend PhysCon!, a conference for students in California, he said. The two clubs plan to host two more laser tag events from now until the 
conference to help offset the costs.
Individuals paid $10 to partici-
pate and played in teams of three. 
Teams started at opposite ends of the lobby and ducked behind card-board barriers as they tried to take each other out.
Acosta, a member of the win-
ning Team Harambe, said she 
heard about the event from mem-
bers in the UF Paintball Club. They decided to form a team and put their skills to use.   
“We were running and squat-
ting and sprinting,” she said. “It was definitely a workout.”
Members of the UF Paintball 
Club won the first game of the 
night. They moved in a tight for-
mation, watching each other’s backs for oncoming attacks.
Alex Orta, the president of the 
club, said they showed up to win.
“We just wanted to go super 
hard core,” the 21-year-old UF bi-ology senior said. “We slipped into small places and got the shot.”
Delgado said the space in the 
building is currently large enough for 12 people to play at once, but he’s hoping that once more stu-dents join in, the event will be able to upgrade to a bigger location.“I’d like to go big,” he said. 
“I’m thinking the O’Connell Cen-ter.”
Saige Drecksler said it was her 
first time playing laser tag on cam-pus. Drecksler, who was a part of Team Ram Pride!, said she en-joyed participating in the game with her friends.
“It was a ton of fun,” the 
18-year-old UF aerospace engi-neering freshman said. “I would 
definitely come back to do it 
again.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
Students duck, run in laser tag tournament in Physics lobbyBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff WriterThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORCheney-s of love: 
Finding the wrong 
election role model 
We all have role models. Well, all of us except for J. 
Cole. In his song “No Role Modelz,” Cole points out that in this day and age, no role models exist for us to look up to anymore. The desire to live a humble lifestyle has since been replaced with the obnoxious, 
tacky and entirely superficial placeholders. Young people used to look up to athletes who didn’t use performance-enhancing drugs, politicians who made compromises to reach success for the betterment of this country and celebrities who engaged in philanthropic causes — not celebrities who get “Made in China” breast implants (read: a Kardashian) or “Made in Thailand” lip injections (read: a Kardashian).
Nothing has proven the decline of role models and the admi-
ration of noble people more than the success of Donald Trump. 
The Don, when explaining the role of vice president to Gov. 
John Kasich, more or less said he would be in charge of all for-eign and domestic affairs. Therefore, it is safe to assume Gov. Mike Pence will really have the power that comes with the pres-idency. This begs the question: What kind of president would Pence be? Whose footsteps would he follow in? Essentially, who are his role models?
The answer, dear reader, will scare you. Pence recently said 
that the cyborg, failed rifleman and former Vice President Dick 
Cheney is someone he holds in “really high regard.” This should 
be a massive red flag, because when Cheney left office, his ap-proval rating was only 13 percent. What a “bold” political move to make, to adopt a role model who is arguably one of the most hated American political figures, by Americans, in the last, say, 238 years. Either Pence is a masochist, a dumb--- or a dumb--- masochist. But, for some reason, people will forget  that Cheney should truly be found guilty of war crimes far worse than the ones Trump casually advocates, or the ones Hillary has already 
committed by not being computer savvy. For God’s sake, she’s 
68 years old. Do you know any 68-year-old person who is good with computers? No s--- she can’t check her email; our opinions editor’s grandmother called him last week when she acciden-tally deleted her Google Chrome shortcut, thinking she “deleted the entire internet off of her computer.”
While we’re all talking about ignorance, Pence clearly takes 
the cake from Cheney. When Pence was running for Congress in 1990, he took political donations and spent them on his mort-
gage, his credit card bill, groceries, golf tournaments and his 
wife’s car payments. This is incredibly reminiscent to a time when Cheney, a former CEO of the Halliburton Company, de-cided to go to war with one of the most oil-rich countries in the world and lied to the American people about the presence of weapons there to justify it. Technically, Cheney spearheaded an unjustified war effort that killed thousands of U.S. soldiers and wasted tax dollars. And Pence has the audacity to say he admires this man? America is already great, and you’re not go-
ing to make it any better by following in the footsteps of a man 
who profited off the death of America’s children.
For some reason, there’s been a lot of white, Christian, con-
servative and presumably anti-gay males loving them some Dick. All we ask, Don (because we never advocate for violence), is that you should not go hunting with your running mate. If Pence really looks up to Cheney, it’s possible he developed his shooting form from him, and it’s probably not a good idea for a dude with a swan-like haircut to hunt with him.Crushing gender oppression with a pair of heels
I’m one of those people who wears heels 
on campus. You can catch me doing high-
knees as I power my way up North Lawn or swinging from tree to tree as I teeter-totter across the Plaza of the Americas.
Why do I purposefully make it so each day 
on campus could pass as a scene in “Mission Impossible”? It’s not because I like Tom Cruise, because I really, really don’t.
To be honest, I don’t really know — or rath-
er, I do, but the answer is embarrassing.
It makes my legs look nice. That’s it. I’m willing to 
endure blisters and pain for a nice pair of shoes. I can say the same thing about the uncomfortable clothes I wear or the time I put into applying makeup. I spend a lot of time trying to make this big forehead cute and these features fit the Western standard of beauty. To me, it is worth it because my appearance makes things easier.
It is more than wearing a suit to an interview. It is 
about appealing to those around you and receiving bet-ter treatment when you do. This means conforming to what others find attractive, suppressing your opinion so it doesn’t make others uncomfortable, even modulating your voice so it sounds softer and more inviting.
It is a bad message to subscribe to, but sometimes 
I can’t help giving into the pressure because I know the results are better. Feminine-presenting individuals shouldn’t have to be considered attractive to be taken seriously, but the sad reality is there is a relationship be-tween credibility and appearance.
And it’s a shame I can’t hit you with theory after 
theory to prove the existence of things like lookism, the idea that appearance affects success at work. The truth is, I don’t know enough about it. There are a lot of things out there, from studies published by the Psychology  
of Women Quarterly or even research conducted by  
UF. And instead of listing them here, I encourage you to look at them for yourself. I am still checking  
myself daily when I notice myself falling into  
these behaviors, and I think others could ben-efit from looking at their choices critically as well.
Do we ever really sit back and think about 
how gendered our world is? Because it’s not just women who are affected. Men also experi-ence pressure to present themselves in a mas-culine way and are ridiculed when they don’t. Everyone is affected by the existence of a gen-
der binary. We are taught these behaviors by those we love at an early age, and they shape our self-awareness. We see them enforced through institutions like our reli-gion or government, but we don’t think to question it. It is really not that surprising, then, that I had been objec-tifying myself.
We are never taught to be critical of gender roles be-
cause knowledge would give you something to fight back with, and they don’t want that. We just have to find them out for ourselves. Those with masculine privilege have to teach themselves to use their privilege to combat gender oppression. They can make the choice to bring attention to the fact that the women in their clubs or organizations are being spoken over, for example. We all have to learn first to recognize it, then address it.
“(Girls) are taught to view their bodies as projects that 
need work before they can attract others, whereas boys are likely to learn to view their bodies as tools to use to master the environment,” said Sarah Murnen in the jour-nal Sex Roles. I’m still learning to look at myself as more than a project. I can’t tell you how to get there, but I do think focusing on the things you like about yourself that don’t depend on the validation of others is a good start. On that front, I’m still running up that hill.
Brooke Henderson is a UF journalism and internation-
al studies sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
Brooke  
Henderson
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As Donald Trump learned in the 
past week at least, eventually the truth catches up to you. 
“President Barack Obama was 
born in the United States. Period.”
In an uncharacteristically short state-
ment, he ﬁ  nally admitted Obama was born in the U.S. after maintaining that he was born in Kenya. 
It would seem Trump was ﬁ  nally ac-
cepting reality, except he refused to take questions after and maintained Hillary 
Clinton started the "birther" movement, or 
the conspiracy around Obama's birthplace, during her 2008 campaign.
It’s true that Clinton herself may not 
have started birtherism, but people who supported and volunteered for the cam-paign in 2008 did spread the rumors. Per-haps in an attempt to focus his campaign on the issues that voters actually care 
about, Trump decided to put birtherism 
behind him.
Often, Trump’s supporters will say he’s not a politician and that we should focus on the issues — but Trump touted Obama’s birth-
place as a key issue. Trump at-
tacked Obama’s legitimacy as a leader, which is stooping very low in an effort to discredit the 
ﬁ  rst black president. It’s clear 
his campaign is pushing him to appear more presidential — Trump himself would probably continue the birther rhetoric. Trump has shown in 
the past that he resists the traditional cam-
paign structure, preferring to speak off the cuff, rather than from a teleprompter.
While a pivot was expected of Trump, it 
seems a solid pivot on issues that matter to voters isn’t going to happen. Trump wants to have his cake and eat it too: He wants to be the candidate who stands against politi-cal correctness and the candidate who has 
the support of the Republican Party, even 
if he likes to say he doesn’t actually need the GOP.Every day, Trump alternates 
between alienating the GOP base, his core supporters and in-
dependents, among which there 
is little overlap. It may be that the very thing that makes him appeal to the voter who hates 
political correctness will not win 
him the general election. Ever since Trump announced his can-
didacy he has narrowed his appeal, not broadened it.
Maybe now he realizes being unreason-
able doesn’t get you votes. Being so far ahead of the November elections makes it difﬁ  cult to predict anything, but if Trump 
continues the way he has so far, then win-
ning the upcoming election will not be easy.
Throughout this race, Trump hasn’t 
been accountable for his actions — even 
in afﬁ  rming that Obama was in fact born 
in the U.S. According to The Washington Post, the campaign stated in an email: “Mr. Trump did a great service to the president and the country by bringing closure to the issue that Hillary Clinton and her team ﬁ  rst 
raised.” In fact, he hasn’t brought closure 
to the issue at all: Why did he keep up the charade about the birth certiﬁ  cate long af-ter Obama had already released his birth 
certiﬁ  cate? Trump routinely criticizes Clin-
ton for not answering questions from the press, and yet, when it counted the most Trump shied away from allowing the press to ask questions.
While I hate the term political correct-
ness, what Trump has said and done over the course of this campaign is not politi-cally incorrect but just plain rude.
If his handling of the birther issue is 
any indication of how he would conduct a presidency, a Trump presidency will be ﬁ  lled with aimless racist witch hunts he will eventually blame on someone else.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science 
sophomore. Her column appears on Mon-days.
Our musical tastes are unbeliev-ably polarized. There are very few popular songs that take a middle 
ground when it comes to emotion. 
Why does our generation seem to 
enjoy incredibly depressing, intensely an-gry or extraordinarily happy music? There 
is likely no single answer to this, but there 
is one I feel is the most probable.
We like extremes. We frequently identi-
fy experiences as being the highest of highs or the lowest of lows. Very few things are 
just “OK.” We are dissatisﬁ  ed with the av-
erage. While I’m not arguing that we enjoy the worst parts, we certainly seem drawn to them.
Our generation hungers for the taboo 
topics. We talk about depression and mental illness. We discuss eating disor-ders, suicide and miscarriage. We air our concerns about the political arena, global 
warming and the shortcomings of the pre-
vious generation.At the same time, we talk 
about our successes. We don’t try to hide the good things. So-
cial media is an excellent ex-
ample of each of these poles. We are quick to post about an accep-tance letter or a cool addition to 
our resume, but equally as eager 
to share a post about something depressing. This makes sense. Where’s the entertainment value in just another average day?
Based on this stigma around our social 
media posts, it is no wonder the idea of what is worth talking about touches our emotions. If you talk about something 
enough, it starts to take hold in your mind. 
If we only ever talk about the extremely positive or extremely negative, we will quickly start to think in the extremes. Then, we will seek entertainment that ap-
peals to that way of thinking. Enter: the 
happiest, saddest and angriest of songs.Let’s see some examples. 
Happy: “Closer” by The Chain-smokers. Now, I never said the 
happiest of songs had to be G-
rated. However, the narrator of this song has had a rough past, along with the girl he’s address-
ing. But now, he’s so happy to 
be with her again, and this is all that seems to matter in the world to him. Blind ecstasy.
Sad: “Heathens” by Twenty One Pilots. 
The music video is quite literally based around the singer walking around a jail as a prisoner, looking at the other prison-ers. He discusses the misunderstandings of 
those conﬁ  ned to a prison, be it a physi-
cal building or the conﬁ  nes of their mental illness. It really can’t get more depressing than trying to explain that you can’t be un-derstood to those who think they do.
Angry: “In the End” by Linkin Park. 
This is the utter anthem of being pissed off. Basically, the singer is mad because he feels his efforts don’t make a difference. It’s easy to say, but very frustrating when 
you actually consider what this means. As 
millennials, we like to think that what we do is important. Nothing is more frustrat-ing than feeling that the exact opposite is 
true.
When considering the popularity of 
these songs, the topics should not come as 
a surprise. Sex, feeling like work may not pay off and being misunderstood. These 
border on cliche, if we’re being honest. 
However, our devotion to and passion to the things we love is what sets us apart as a generation. Complacency is not some-
thing we have experience with. As a result, 
the music we like reﬂ  ects that. Be happy, be sad or be angry, but be something. Feel something. We’re more human for it.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column ap-pears on Mondays.Donald Trump's campaign is coming apart at the seams after no pivot
The polarity of emotions: Sing me a happy (or sad or angry) song, nothing elseColumn
Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
LOCAL
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
As Tamaria Henderson, 20, rode 
her bicycle Saturday, she was re-
minded of alcoholism, an addiction she has battled for the past nine months.
One of 70 cyclists who pedaled 
through Gainesville’s Boulware Springs Park to raise money for a local addiction treatment center, Henderson said she felt inspired to conquer the trail’s hilly terrain, a metaphor for her recovery.
“My journey is just beginning,” 
the Gainesville resident said. “I have a long way to go.”
The second-annual bicycle ride 
raised money for Metamorphosis of Alachua County, a residential treat-ment center that offers therapy and housing for those recovering from substance addiction.
One-third of the center’s 21 cur-
rent residents — including Hender-son — participated in the ride, said AJ Tatum, the founder of Active For 
Recovery, the nonprofit that hosted 
the event.
Tatum, 32, a recovering narcotics 
addict, said he organized the race be-cause riding his bicycle helped him overcome his habits.
“It brought more fun to life,” the 
Gainesville resident said. “It kept the adrenaline going instead of being 
high.”
All of the participants, who paid 
between $20 and $30 to register for 
the ride, received $40 in gift certifi-cates from sponsors.
Tatum said 13 local companies 
sponsored the race, which was two more than last year, but the stigma surrounding addiction may limit 
funding for treatment.
“Last year, we weren’t able to 
get many sponsors,” he said. “They 
don’t want their business associated with addiction.”
Tatum said he was proud to raise 
money for Metamorphosis because the center offers life-changing ser-vices.He said the treatment center 
houses up to 21 residents at a time, most of whom stay for about six months to one year, and provides residents personalized care.
Through therapy sessions, Tatum 
said, residents can confront the un-derlying causes of their addictions.
“A lot of times, drug addiction 
goes hand-in-hand with mental ill-ness,” he said.
Addiction’s negative perception, 
Tatum said, can be overcome by encouraging family members to re-
main supportive during someone’s 
recovery.
Although Henderson did not 
willingly sign up for treatment — a court ordered her to go — she said the treatment has given her a second chance at life.
Henderson, who has lived at the 
center for four months, was joined 
by residents who were permitted to 
leave the center and graduates of the program.
Henderson said seeing their suc-
cess — and her own transformation — motivates her to continue her road to recovery.
“I’ve gained a lot of self-confi-
dence and love for myself,” she said. 
“They help us find ourselves without 
drugs.”Recovering addicts, residents raise money for treatment
Carly Breitbart / Alligator  
T amaria Henderson rides her bicycle to support Metamorphosis of Alachua County, 
the treatment center where she currently lives and battles her alcohol addiction. “You have to want it, ” the 20-year-old said.
Carly Breitbart / Alligator  
As they pedaled through Boulware Springs Park in Gainesville, 70 cyclists raised money for addiction recovery on Saturday. The second annual race, hosted by Active For Recovery, benefitted Metamorphosis of Alachua County, a residential treatment center for adults with substance addiction.
Carly Breitbart / Alligator 
One-third of the treatment center’s 21 current residents participated in the race. AJ T atum, the founder of the nonprofit Active For Recovery, said he organized the race because bicycling helped him beat his own addiction. “It brought more fun to life, ” the 32-year-old said. “It kept the adrenaline going instead of being high. ” 
STUDENTS CAN RENT 
PADDLEBOARDS, LIFE 
JACKETS, LANTERNS
By Marianna Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer
The cutting of a navy-blue 
ribbon Friday marked the grand 
opening of an on-campus outdoor gear rental facility.
About 250 people attended UF 
RecSports’ grand opening cer-emony for the Center for Outdoor Recreation and Education at 3 
p.m. 
The building, located behind 
Southwest Recreation Center, will 
rent out paddleboards, shoes, dry bags, life jackets, lanterns, kay-
aks and camping gear.The first 100 students at the 
event received a free T-shirt, a 
coupon for 20 percent off their first rental and were entered into a drawing to win a free trip, which 
is valued at about $250. CORE of-
fers one- to four-day weekend trips across the east coast.
Students could try out back-
packs and other rental equipment 
during the event. Prices range  between $2 for a sleeping mat  
and $60 for an inflatable paddle 
board for about a week’s worth of use.
UF Student Body President Su-
san Webster told the crowd she was excited to see the new facil-ity open before she graduated. The project started in 2015, said Jackie Matthews, the coordinator 
for CORE.“Student Government was crit-
ical to the construction of CORE,” 
Matthews said.
Kisa Mugwa, the marketing 
program assistant for CORE, said 
students have already started 
renting outdoor gear.
“CORE is an easier accessi-
bility for students to explore on their own or with a little help,” 
Mathews said.About 250 people celebrate new outdoor RecSports facility MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Hao Wang, a 22-year-old UF accounting senior and the director of student surveys for the Chinese 
Student Association, writes his name in Chinese characters during the Mid-Autumn Festival in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Sunday evening.
Gelan Wang, a 20-year-old UF biochemistry junior, posts her name written in Chinese characters to a bulletin board at the Chinese Student Association’s Mid-Autumn Festival. Students attending the festival were encouraged to post positive notes and thoughts in Chinese characters to spread happiness.
Nora Cao, a 20-year-old UF marketing sophomore, pours honey mustard into more than 200 of chicken tenders in preparation for the Chinese Student Association’s Mid-Autumn Festival in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Sunday evening.
Three student performers sing a Chinese song in front of more than 250 people during the Chinese Student Association’s Mid-Autumn Festival. Performances included dancing, musical-instrument playing, singing and comedy acts.
From left: Peiyu Wang, 25, a UF alumnus, and Yuning Zhao, a 23-year-old UF food and resource economics student, prepare for their violin performance backstage during the Chinese Student Association’s Mid-Autumn Festival on Sunday evening in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. 
CELEBRATING  
HAPPINESS DURING THE 
HARVEST MOON
Photos By Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
On Sunday evening, the Chinese Student Association 
celebrated the Mid-Autumn Festival in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. The festival marks a traditional festival in the lunar calendar of China, South Korea and Vietnam. BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
ACROSS
1 Dangerous wind
for small boats
5 “You’re gonna
need a bigger
boat” movie
9 Barbecue rod
13 Actor Sharif14 Verbal exams16 Actress
Lollobrigida
17 Ship-fouling
organisms, on
Talk Like a PirateDay?
19 Lights-out tune20 Horse hue21 Spyglass
component
23 With 48-Down,
mediocre
24 “Alas ... ”26 Cry of fright27 Burning29 Key lime __
30 Pigpen
31 Story surprises32 What kids ask on
a long trip, onTLAP Day?
36 What George
Washingtoncould not tell,according tofolklore
37 Oregon Trail
wagon pullers
38 Ship’s right-front
section, on TLAPDay?
43 Sends to the Hill45 Agrees to46 Wonderment47 Wood-shaping
tool
48 Urgent distress
signal
49 When right turns
are sometimes
permitted
51 Tax agcy.
52 Dire fate54 Two of a kind55 The color of
tropical seas
57 Cold northern
region, on TLAPDay?
61 “The Sopranos”
actress Falco
62 Human trunk
63 Ring of light
64 Flatfish
sometimesserved stuffed
65 Recipe amts.66 Online auction
site
DOWN
1 Dollop
2 Doctors’ org.
3 Food storage
area, on TLAP
Day?
4 Swashbuckler
Flynn
5 __ of 6-Down:
French heroine
6 5-Down of __:
French heroine
7 Minnesota’s state
fish
8 Like a smooth-
sailing clipper
ship
9 Rank above cpl.
10 One tickling the
ivories
11 Sitting at the
dock of the bay
12 Tries a bite of
15 Taxpayer ID18 Dissenting vote22 Fictional Tom or
real-life Diane
24 Massage facility
25 Balloon filler
26 Old anesthetic28 Wicked one
30 Mixes31 __ Hold ’em33 Enjoy, as
television
34 Overjoyed
35 Chess castles38 Shove off39 Post-WWII babies40 Bill for drinks, on
TLAP Day?
41 Be indebted to42 Married43 Upper crust
groups
44 Rio Grande city48 See 23-Across49 Rowboat
propeller
50 Specialized
market segment
53 Giants slugger
Mel
54 All in favor56 Director Ang __58 Deadly snake59 Dockworkers’
org.
60 Playfully shy
By Grant Boroughs©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/19/1609/19/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, September 19, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. In 2015, Los Angeles Dodgers 
pitcher Clayton Kershaw tied a team 
record with a sixth consecutive season 
of 200-plus strikeouts. Who else holds 
the mark?
2. Which of the following four 
left-handed pitchers appeared in the 
most major-league games: Tommy 
John, Jim Kaat, Sparky Lyle or Tug McGraw?
3. Name the school that has been 
ranked No. 1 in The Associated Press top-25 college football preseason poll the most times.
4. When was the last time before the 
2015 NBA playoffs that the Washing-ton Wizards swept a series?
5. When was the last time before 
2016 that the St. Louis Blues made 
the conference finals in the NHL play-
offs?
6. Who was the last rookie racer 
before Alexander Rossi in 2016 to win the Indianapolis 500?
7. Name the last Spanish female ten-
nis player before Garbine Muguruza in 2016 to win the women’s singles title at the French Open.
Answers
1. Sandy Koufax, 1961-66.
2. Lyle, 899 games; Kaat, 898; 
McGraw, 824; John, 760.
3. Oklahoma, 10 times.4. Washington swept the New Jersey 
Nets in 1982.
5. It was 2001.6. Helio Castroneves, in 2001.7. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario won the 
French Open in 1998.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
September 12, 2016 King Features Weekly Service13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        9-21-16-5-14Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-
time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing 
available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate 
board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-
portunities.  For further information, contact 
Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or 
gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    
1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)ELVIS ROCKS!
LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"ENO HAMMOCKS!
Single and Double Nest Hammocks - lots of 
colors in stock now. Just 1 mile N of UF on 
13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836     
9-20-16-5-18
Baggies & Board Shorts Sale!
Patagonia, Columbia, Vissla, Billabong and Quiksilver. 30-50% OFF! Just 1 mile N of UF 
on 13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836    
9-20-16-5-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
What makes you tick?
The non-profit Center for Applications of 
Psychological Type is seeking volunteers 
who want to explore their personality in a study looking at the links between knowl -
edge of personality, behavior, and attitudes 
towards others.
You will receive compensation, take a free 
personality assessment, and receive expert 
feedback on your results. To learn more and 
take a brief eligibility survey:
www.capt.org/etv
etvstudy@capt.org
(352) 375 – 0160
9-20-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
18 Personals 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
ESPN's College GameDay headed to UF vs. T ennessee
ESPN's College GameDay, the network's popular pregame college football 
show, will air live from Knoxville, T ennessee, before the Florida football team faces UT on the road Saturday. The show will be televised from 9 a.m. to noon.Coach Jim McElwain and the 
Florida football team closed its three-game homestand with a 32-0 win on Saturday.See the photo story, pg. 14.MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Jalen Tabor spoke quietly and con-ﬁ  dently.
The junior cornerback and po-
tential 2016 All-American knows 
the questions will swirl around 
the program with quarterback Luke 
Del Rio potentially having to sit out for the next month with an MCL sprain.
But Tabor doesn’t care who the 
starting quarterback is.
“He has a great defense behind 
him,” Tabor said, “so he doesn’t really have to force anything.”
Great might be an understatement. Three weeks into the season, the Gators are 
making a statement that they might be the best defense in the country.
And with a top-20 road matchup with Tennes-
see on the horizon and a backup quarterback tak-ing charge of the offense, it looks like Florida’s defense will once again need to step up and be the difference maker for the Gators to pull out a win 
in what will probably be their biggest game of the 
year.
In front of more than 100,000 fans in Neyland 
Stadium with ESPN’s College GameDay on site, the winner will likely represent the Eastern Division in 
the Southeastern Conference Championship Game.
“I feel like our defense is ready for any team 
in the country,” defensive lineman Joey Ivie said. 
“Tennessee, whoever. Obviously the focus is Tennessee this week, but I feel like we 
have that type of defense that we’re ready for whoever we play.”
Following a 32-0 shutout of North 
Texas and the best performance by a Florida defense in program history, the group is nothing short of conﬁ  dent.
UF limited the North Texas offense 
to just 53 yards of offense — the lowest yardage total allowed by a UF defense ever.
The Gators sacked Mean Green 
quarterback Mason Fine seven times, an accom-plishment Florida hasn’t done since (coincidental-ly) a 23-21 win over Tennessee in 1999.
The defense opened scoring with a Caleb Brant-
ley sack-safety, giving UF a 2-0 lead two defensive plays into the game.
The success transcends Saturday, though.Three games into the year, Florida’s defensive 
numbers speak for themself.
The Gators lead the country in yards allowed 
(129.7/game), points allowed (4.7/game) and total sacks (16).
“That’s just what we do,” Tabor said. 
“When we get on the ﬁ  eld, that’s what we do.”
On Saturday, they’ll have to do it again.
Jordan McPherson is a sports writer for the 
Alligator. You can contact him at jmcpherson@al-ligator.org and follow him on Twitter @J_McPher-son1126  Florida’s defense needs to be its savior
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Bryan Cox signals a safety following teammate Caleb Brantley's sack in the ﬁ  rst quarter of Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday.
FEARSOME MCPHERSON / OPINION
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126JORDAN SCORED THE 
72ND GOAL OF HER 
CAREER. 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Playing in front of their home 
crowd for the ﬁ  rst time in ﬁ  ve 
games, the Gators didn’t disap-
point.
No. 4 Florida (6-2) came in 
looking to rebound from a 2-1 
road loss to Arkansas on Friday, 
where it allowed the Razorbacks 
to score twice in a three-minute period. 
Behind the performance of Sa-
vannah Jordan, they were able to 
do just that, winning 3-2 against 
in-state rival UCF (5-4) while also wrapping up non-conference play for the season.
Jordan, who scored her 72nd career goal in the 53rd minute off an assist from sophomore Mayra Pelayo and senior Meggie Dougherty Howard, moved up to 
the No. 2 spot on Florida’s career 
goals list. 
Jordan ranks behind only Abby 
Wambach, who had 96 during her career at Florida.
“I give a lot of credit to my 
team, most all of it. Without those crosses, balls played into me, I wouldn’t be able score any 
of those,” Jordan said. “Most of 
the credit goes to them, and then I happened to be the last one to touch it.”
But it wasn’t easy getting past 
the Knights.
In the 33rd minute, Pamela Be-
gic put the Gators on the board ﬁ  rst, scoring with a shot from 22 
yards out. Florida soccer defeats 
UCF to close out non-conference play
Staff Report
UF’s volleyball team wasn’t ex-
pecting this.
Heading into Saturday’s home 
match against Marshall, the No. 7 
Gators had made a habit of starting strong, winning the opening set in each of their ﬁ  rst 10 matches.
And yet, after one frame, they 
found themselves trailing an un-ranked opponent.
However, things changed soon 
enough.
Powered by the three-headed 
monster of Rhamat Alhassan, Alex Holston and Carli Snyder, the Gators (10-1) overcame Marshall (11-4), earning their 10th consecu-tive victory of the season at the Active Ankle Challenge.
“The big three,” coach Mary Wise said. “I think we need to come up with a moniker for those three, because when those three play well, the Gators beneﬁ  t.”
While they may have been 
prepared for the  Thunder-
ing Herd’s com-bative play, the Gators didn’t do themselves many favors.
Teammates  
miscommuni-cated. Players 
bumped into and stumbled over each other. Seemingly routine plays misﬁ  red, compounding the effects of two controversial calls that went against UF.
Its opposition took advantage. UF volleyball wins 
weekend matchup, tennis teams compete
SEE ROUNDUP,  PAGE 15WEEKEND ROUNDUP
Wise
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
Purdue.
And yet, McElwain was optimis-
tic after the game. He said he has 
confidence in Appleby and belief in his team to play through Del Rio’s 
absence in a hostile road environ-
ment against the Volunteers (3-0) on Saturday.
His players agreed.
“Austin is a good quarterback,” 
defensive lineman Joey Ivie said. “I 
think that if we just keep practic-ing hard and stay positive and stay together and stay coachable, things 
are going to be OK.”
Inevitably, Florida’s offense will 
feel different under a new quarter-
back. Through three games, Del 
Rio was having a career year, rank-
ing fourth in the Southeastern Con-ference in passing yards (762) and tying for fourth in passing touch-downs (six).
In contrast, Appleby’s best 
season came in 2014 at Purdue, when the quarterback had 10 touchdowns and 11 interceptions through 10 games. He had a 2-9 re-cord in 11 career starts.
But, according to coaches, he 
was nearly even with Del Rio in 
the race to win the starting quar-
terback job throughout Florida’s preseason camp.
“All our guys have got good 
arms,” McElwain said. “We’ll stretch the field. Plan doesn’t change.”
Florida hopes not. The Gators 
offense has mostly flourished 
through three games. They rank 
38th in the nation in passing of-fense (264 yards per game), up 34 spots from where they finished last 
season.
But with Del Rio sidelined for 
the foreseeable future, they’ll need 
to find ways to keep their offense from stalling.
“It doesn’t matter who’s playing 
quarterback, running back, receiv-er, calling the plays, it don’t mat-ter,” Tabor said. 
“We’ll be fine.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 1Appleby started 11 games at Purdue before transferring to UF
Grace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Keivonnis Davis and Chauncey Gardner tackle a North T exas ball carrier during Florida’s 
32-0 win over the Mean Green on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
T op left: Luke Del Rio walks off the field during Saturday’s game against North T exas after being injured on a roughing the passer penalty. He’s expected to miss two to four weeks after sustaining an MCL sprain in his left knee. 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
T op right: Offensive line coach Mike Summers speaks to his players during Florida’s game against North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Bottom left: Coach Jim McElwain walks onto the field prior to his team’s 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday. Florida will face T ennessee on the road on Saturday.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
By the time the whistle blew, 
Marshall had clinched the opening 
set 25-23, putting the Gators in an unfamiliar position.
And then, something clicked.
Errors began to plague Mar-
shall, and Florida capitalized. 
Over the course of the next two sets, the Herd committed 14 errors to the Gators’ four, including four 
service errors within their first 
eight points of the third set.
Florida’s attack also found its 
swing, hitting .440 as a team in 
the second and third games and 
winning by a combined score of 
50-33.
Catalyzing the offense, set-
ter Allie Monserez turned in a 
career-high 53 assists and earned 
a double-double (12 digs) in the 
process.
“She’s really found her groove 
in the setter position,” Snyder 
said. “She’s actually one of my 
very best friends off the court. … 
Her and I just have a very good 
trust in each other, and that’s something that our team has.”
The front line also came up big, 
registering 15 total blocks while 
holding the opposition to a .154 
hitting percentage in the decisive fourth set and .190 overall.
“We don’t win that match 
without the blocking,” Wise said. “(Those) 15 blocks were key.”
In all, Florida strung together a 
solid showing, with its hitting ef-ficiency (.375) and blocks per set (3.75) figures both eclipsing its seasonal averages.
And with conference play start-ing soon, the team will be looking 
to learn from today’s performance.
“We’re the best when we’re the 
Gators,” Snyder said.
“We just have to go back to, 
when we have a tough first set like that, let’s be the Gators. It’s 
not hard to do.”
- Alejandro López
Tennis
The Florida women’s tennis 
team dominated at the Duke Bonk Invitational over the weekend. 
It started on Friday, when the 
Gators went a combined 11-1 in singles and doubles with all six 
singles competitors winning their 
first-round matches.
Junior Anna Danilina swept her 
competition, besting North Caroli-na’s Maggie Kane 6-0, 6-0. 
And fellow junior Peggy Por-
ter was the only member of UF’s 
roster to start competition Friday 
against a ranked opponent. She 
beat Miami’s No. 32-ranked Yoli-mar Ogando 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.
Prior to Friday, the highest-
ranked player Porter had knocked off was No. 47 Kelsey Laurente of 
Oklahoma at the same invitational 
two years prior.
The Gators also played well in 
doubles action, as both of their new doubles pairings started off 
the weekend by going a combined 
4-0.
Kourtney Keegan and Porter 
won 8-4 and 8-6, while Danilina and Spencer Liang won by a score of 8-4, 8-1.  On Saturday, each of 
these duos won the title in their respective draws, with Keegan and Porter going 8-2 and Danilina and Liang winning 8-7 (1).  
Josie Kuhlman and Belinda 
Woolock took home the third place title in their draw. 
In Sunday's final, Kuhlman 
and Woolcock won singles titles. Kuhlman defeated Miami's Maci Epstein 6-3, 6-3, and Woolcock beat TCU's Donika Bashota 6-4, 5-7, 6-2.
“For the first tournament of the 
year, we had a great showing," coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release.
"We played at a really high 
level."
The men’s tennis team excelled 
in its matches as well.
On Day 1 of the Duke Bonk 
Invite, junior Jordan Belga de-
feated Valparaiso's No. 111 Jeffrey 
Schorsch 6-3, 7-5, and redshirt 
junior Joshua Wardell defeated No. 80 Jack Findel-Hawkins from North Florida 7-6, 3-6, 7-5 in sin-
gles play. 
Belga and freshman David 
Sarkissov were paired in doubles 
action, losing to Elon 8-4.
On Saturday, Belga defeated 
two Duke players to reach the 
singles finals in his draw. Wardell, 
who won in the quarterfinals 6-4, 6-3 over Valparaiso’s Chad Kissel, lost in the semifinals and played for third place in his draw.
The men’s team will compete 
again on Sept. 23 in the Bedford Cup, while the women will play in the Las Vegas 50k beginning on Sept. 26.
- Cassie AmundsonROUNDUP,  from pg 14Monserez set a new career-high with 53 assists against Marshall
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Rhamat Alhassan (1) attempts a kill during Florida's 3-0 win over Jacksonville on Friday in the Gale Lemerand Center. 
It was her first goal of the season. 
“It’s always exciting to score, but I think it’s 
been overall a great performance by the entire 
team,” Begic said. 
“I think we all deserve a lot of credit tonight. It 
was a hard battle.”
After Jordan put the Gators up 2-0 in the second 
half, UCF scored two unanswered goals.
The first came from Morgan Ferrara who scored 
from 14 yards out in the 58th minute and the sec-
ond from Bridget Callahan in the 74th minute. 
But the Gators didn’t panic.
With less than three minutes remaining, soph-
omore Samantha Chung sealed the victory and 
scored her first goal of the season off an assist from Pelayo to put the Gators up 3-2. 
“It honestly feels amazing,” Chung said. “We 
all put in the effort and we worked hard and finally got the goal.”
The Gators will finish their regular season with 
nine consecutive SEC opponents starting with Au-
burn on Thursday.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 14UF will face nine-
straight SEC teams 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pamela Begic dribbles the ball during UF's 3-2 win over UCF on Sunday night at James G. Pressly Stadium. Begic scored 
Florida's first goal of the game. 
16   ALLIGATOR     MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
AP TOP 
25 POLL
1. Alabama
2. Ohio State3. Louisville4. Michigan5. Clemson6. Houston7. Stanford8. Michigan St.9. Washington10. T exas A&M11. Wisconsin12. Georgia13. Florida St. 14. T ennessee15. Miami (FL)16. Baylor17. Arkansas18. LSU19. Florida20. Nebraska21. T exas22. San Diego St.23. Mississippi24. Utah25. Oklahoma
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Johnny T ownsend punts during UF’s 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. In the latest college football AP Poll released Sunday, Florida jumped four spots from No. 23 to No. 19.