We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 21 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
Callaway questionable for UF’s 
game against Tennessee
He sat out last week with an injury, pg. 13
UF races Tennessee to register voters
The competition ends Oct. 11, pg. 5
Two women killed in collision near GNV airport It 
is unknown whether alcohol was involved, pg. 9Pirates pose for pastries
See our coverage from Krispy Kreme’s
T alk Like a Pirate Day, pg. 8
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
America’s ﬁ  rst year-round astronaut will 
visit UF on Monday. 
Retired astronaut and U.S. Navy Capt. Scott 
Kelly will speak and answer students’ questions 
at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts on Monday at 8 p.m., with doors opening at 7 p.m. Kelly is being paid $55,000, said Accent Speak-ers Bureau Chairman Mike Greenberg. 
Kelly, who has worked for NASA for 20 
years, will speak about his experience being the 
ﬁ  rst American astronaut to spend a full year in 
space. Accent originally planned to bring Kelly to campus last year due to high student de-
mand, Greenberg said, but there were schedul-
ing conﬂ  icts. 
“It’s someone I think can really engage and 
interact with the Student Body,” he said.  Greenberg said he felt Kelly’s science back-
ground would appeal to students. 
“There does seem to be a 
good amount of excitement around speakers that can 
talk about science and their experience with science,” 
he said. “We think Capt. 
Kelly will provide the same 
kind of excitement and en-gagement.” 
Adam Wang, a UF chemical engineering 
sophomore, said he is excited to hear an astro-naut speak. 
“My dream has always been to be an astro-
naut,” the 19-year-old said. “I’ve always really 
just liked space stuff.” 
Tickets will be available at noon Friday at 
the Phillips Center box ofﬁ  ce. Students with a 
valid Gator 1 Card can get up to two tickets for 
free. Tickets left over will be available to the 
general public at noon Monday at the box of-
ﬁ  ce.
 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org   Accent to bring astronaut Capt. Scott Kelly to UF
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
PIRATES SET SAIL AT KRISPY KREME
T essa Reed, 2, smiles after eating a doughnut on Monday morning during T alk Like a Pirate Day at Krispy Kreme. The shop offered a dozen free doughnuts to anyone dressed like a pirate. “I saw the event on Facebook and decided to come, ” said Angela Reed, T essa’s mother. Read the story on page 8.
Molly Donovan / Alligator
Hank, the Child Advocacy Center’s “AdvoCat, ” roams the ofﬁ  ce looking for treats. The orange cat found a home at the center in June and often plays with kids who visit the ofﬁ  ce.
Kelly
Kelly is being paid $55,000
THERE WILL BE 38
BEERS ON TAP .
By Kaila Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
Just a couple of weeks after Balls Bar reopened, 
a new restaurant and bar will compete for the at-
tention of Midtown patrons.
The Social at Midtown, located where Gator 
City Sports Grille once stood, will open Oct. 3 after $6 million worth of renovations, said general man-ager Danny Zeenberg.Located at 1728 W. University Ave., the 
26,000-square-foot property will include four 360-degree bars and a rooftop dining area.
With a more reﬁ  ned menu and design blueprint, 
The Social at Midtown will be a step up from tradi-
tional sports bars, Zeenberg said.
“We are going for a different concept start to 
ﬁ  nish,” he said. “The product that we are deliver-
ing is going to be a little more expensive than what you see in the rest of Midtown, but the quality is 
going to be much better.” 
The menu will include many tapas-inspired  The Social at Midtown to open in October By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Among the toys, books, crafts 
and games in the waiting room 
of the Gainesville Child Advocacy Center, an orange cat named Hank wanders around, looking for atten-tion and cat treats. 
He roams freely around the of-
ﬁ  ce and therapy rooms, sometimes sitting in on forensic interviews or napping in a chair in the waiting room. To call him, the therapists shake a bag of treats. 
Hank, the “Advo-Cat,” comes 
running.
“He is just so gentle,” said Am-ber Miller, the program developer at the Center for Abused and Ne-glected Children. “You can roll him onto his back and hold him like a little baby. He’s like the best part of a dog and a cat merged.”
Miller said therapists introduce 
Hank to kids who had pets in the past they may have lost contact with. When kids come in for play-therapy appointments and Hank is introduced, therapists ﬁ  nd they make more progress in treatment.
“We bring him in the room, and 
they open up so much more,” Mill-er said. “It calms them.”Purr power: Advocacy 
center cat comforts kids 
SEE SOCIAL,  PAGE 4SEE ADVO-CAT,  PAGE 4LOCALSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  89° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF Astronomy hosts public lec-
ture by Nobel laureate John 
MatherThe UF Department of Astronomy will host a pub-lic lecture by Nobel laureate John Mather today at 7 p.m. in Pugh Hall, Room 170. Professor Mather’s talk is titled, “The 
History of the Universe from 
the beginning to the end: Where did we come from, where can we go?” Mather will outline the history of the universe from its early moments in the Big Bang to the possible end. He will il-lustrate with examples from NASA. After the lecture, the public is also invited to the UF Campus Teaching Observatory, which is located south of the Reitz Union parking lot and west of the Aerospace Engineering building, off Museum Road at 998 Sweetwater Drive. The public night at the observatory will take place between 8:30 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., weather permitting.
Improve your public-speaking 
skillsTalking Gators Toastmasters meets today at 5:45 p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmas-tersclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a supportive and positive learning experience in which members are empow-ered to develop communication and leadership skills, resulting 
in greater self-confidence and 
personal growth.”
UF Study Abroad Fair
UF’s Study Abroad Fair will 
happen on the North Lawn on 
Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 3 
p.m. Study abroad programs 
help students discover new 
cultures, increase global aware-
ness, enhance foreign language 
skills, make new friends and es-
tablish new contacts. Overseas 
internship opportunities are available. Visit ufic.ufl.edu/sas/index.html or call 352-273-
1539 for more information.
Debating truth: history in the 
mode of comics
Nina Caputo, the associate professor in the Department 
of History, will give a talk Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. in 
the Judaica Suite on the sec-ond floor of Smathers Library. Within the last decade, graph-ic histories in comics have emerged as a powerful alterna-tive means of communicating the complexities of the past. This talk examines these narra-tive devices and the challenges they pose.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Lauren
  Janata, Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,      
  Elias Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 21
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Local
tastes
better.Local
tastes
better.
be smart.
eat local.
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
TWO MEET-AND-GREET 
EVENTS WILL BE HELD.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Students living in residence 
halls will have two chances to 
meet their Student Government Senate candidates. 
The Inter-Residence Hall As-
sociation is hosting two meet-and-greet events for residents and candidates Wednesday and Thursday nights, said IRHA Vice President Carina Krehl. Wednesday’s event will be at 
Inﬁ  nity Hall at 7:30 p.m., and 
Thursday’s event will be at 8 
p.m. in Weaver Hall’s base-ment. 
The events will give students 
a chance to ask their candidates questions in an informal, one-on-one setting, Krehl said. 
“It’s so (residents) have the 
ability to ask people things if they feel the need to,” she said. “Especially in the Fall, when Student Government is choos-ing residence hall representa-tives, I think it’s vital students know the people representing 
them.”  
In Fall’s election, only ﬁ  ve 
Student Senate seats are being 
sought by independent candi-dates, with four independents hoping to represent residence halls. All other positions are being sought by Impact candi-dates running unopposed. 
“We’re reaching out to all 
of the on-campus candidates,” Krehl said. “We’re trying to get every candidate there.” 
Riley Bohan, an 18-year-
old UF biomedical engineering sophomore, said she would consider attending Thursday’s event to meet the candidates. 
“If there’s a race, voters 
should be able to know who the candidates are,” said Bo-han, who lives in East Hall and would be represented by the Tolbert Area senator. “It would probably convince me as to whether or not I would want to vote.” 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   
 IRHA to host events with Senate candidatesDON’T LOOK DOWN, DON’T LOOK BACK 
Photos By Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
•   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •
•   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •
• Tolbert Area:  Anthony Zona (Independent) 
and Amanda Holloway (Impact)  
• Rawlings Area: Casey Witte (Independent)  
and Corben Champoux (Impact)
• Inﬁ  nity Hall: Zachariah Chou 
(Independent) and Kelly Hooper (Impact)
• Beaty T owers: Jeremy O’Brien Murillo 
(Independent) and Emily Dunson (Impact)
• District D: Livia Ledbetter (Independent)  
and 13 Impact candidates, running for 13 positions. CONTESTED RACES IN 
FALL ELECTIONS:  Two construction workers, supported by harnesses, stand on the roof of the new Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Monday.A construction worker welds a metal support at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center construction site on Monday afternoon. Construction for the O’Connell Center is on track to meet the projected deadline in December 2016.plates, including wings, tacos, flatbread 
sandwiches and burgers. On weekends, brunch will be served underneath five 
rooftop pergolas, he said.
There will be 38 beers on tap, and 
the majority of them will come from lo-
cal suppliers like Swamp Head Brewery 
and First Magnitude Brewing Compa-
ny, he said.
Zeenberg said he could not give spe-
cific prices because he is still develop-ing the menu with management.
The concept for the restaurant, 
Zeenberg said, encourages socializa-tion among patrons and employees.
With an open floor plan, guests 
won’t have to squeeze through narrow hallways to move around, he said. The back bar will open onto a patio on the back deck, where patrons can play pool and video games.
“If you aren’t interested in coming 
into the restaurant,” Zeenberg said, “the back bar and the back patio are really nice features to come and grab a 
drink and a bite to eat.”
Brittany Lovvorn, 28, a Gainesville 
resident, said she is looking forward to 
bartending for the new restaurant.
“I’m so excited for Midtown to have 
a nicer bar option for students and alumni,” Lovvorn said. 
Kaitlyn Sanders, a 29-year-old UF 
English junior, said The Social at Mid-
town would be a step up from other 
bars along West University Avenue.“I think this place is going to be dif-
ferent than the seedy bars that Mid-town is use to,” Sanders said. “It will be a place that can bring a little class to Midtown and an appealing atmosphere for more than just the 21-year-old pop-ulation of University Avenue.”4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
Kaila Jones / Alligator 
New bar and restaurant The Social at Midtown is renovated before its opening 
in October. Renovations cost $6 million, and the new space will feature a rooftop seating area, 360-degree bars and a back patio. 
SOCIAL,  from pg. 1A back patio will house pool tables and video games
Although predominantly known as “Advo-Cat,” 
Hank has many names.
“Kids call him Orangey, Mr. Whiskers, Ginger, AC 
or just cat,” said SaraNeal Johnston, the lead thera-pist for the center. “We call him Hank.”
Today, he will visit the Humane Society to be 
checked for a microchip and to make sure his shots are up to date. A salon down the road helps care for him, Miller said, and he stays outside to hunt when the advocacy center is closed.
“He’s turned into a community cat,” she said. 
“He’s part of all our families now. He’s no longer a stray; he has a home and a name.”
She said, in June, she went outside the center for 
lunch, and Hank was sitting in front of the door. 
“I knelt down to pet him and he curled up in my 
lap,” she said. “Then we didn’t see him again for a while, but eventually he came back, and he comes back every day for the food and the company.”
She said his laid-back attitude and gentle demean-
or work wonders for the kids who come in, even dur-ing the busiest parts of the day when the waiting room’s capacity is strained.
“All of our kids have been traumatized in some 
way, shape, fashion or form,” Johnston said. “When (Hank) comes in, their whole attitude changes. I think they just sense the unconditional love and ac-ceptance that he — like all animals — brings.”
No matter the situation, she said, the center pro-
vides love and acceptance to the kids they work with.
“When you add Hank to the mix, it just doubles 
it,” she said. “It’s the healing power of the purr.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org ADVO-CAT,  from pg. 1His name is Hank  By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Myra Bui wants a UF soccer jersey. 
The 10-year-old has adopted her 
family’s love for the Gators even on the soccer fields of Arkansas, where she lives, and she wants to represent 
the UF women’s team during her own 
soccer practice. But five years after his daughter started playing the game, David Bui is still looking for a UF fe-male soccer jersey for her. 
He searched the UF Bookstore 
website, Gator Sportshop, eBay and other online providers. But Bui could only find women’s cheerleading uni-
forms and wanted a different option 
for his daughter, he said. 
“Although I respect cheerleading,” 
he said, “there should be more op-tions in terms of apparel.”
The UF Bookstore doesn’t carry 
women’s jerseys because none of their manufacturers make them, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in 
an email. 
“The UAA does require its leasing 
agent to carry product representative 
of all UF sports,” she said. “They do not specify what that product should be.”
Women’s soccer and other UF 
sports all have T-shirts in the book-store, but the only jerseys for sale 
in the UF Bookstore and the Gator 
Sportshop are men’s football, basket-ball, baseball and cycling.There is an issue when boys have 
options for sports gear and girls don’t, Bui said, especially when the wom-en’s soccer team has produced Olym-pic athletes such as Abby Wambach. 
“Female sports seems (sic) to take 
a backseat to male athletic programs,” he said.
UF women’s soccer coach Becky 
Burleigh said she doesn’t control any 
soccer apparel production; the sports 
shops decide what will be profitable to produce.  
“I don’t think a jersey is the con-
nection,” she said. “I mean, I think 
that we offer T-shirts that are specific 
to every sport, male or female.” 
Bui said he doesn’t specifically 
blame UF for its lack of women’s ap-parel compared to men’s because it is a problem for many public universi-ties. But he said he believes UF is in the right position to set an example to start selling these products. 
“It’s not just about a jersey,” he 
said. “It’s about the school’s support-ing women’s sports.”
Dad struggles to find jersey for daughter
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Myra Bui, 10, a soccer player and Gator fan, practices soccer wearing a 
football jersey because UF women’s athletic jerseys are not being sold.
THE SUPER BUG IS 
HIGHL Y CONTAGIOUS.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Beaty Towers resi-
dents were sent home for treat-
ment after contracting a highly 
contagious super bug. 
Both students were diag-
nosed with Methicillin-resis-
tant Staphylococcus aureus, or 
MRSA, last week after showing symptoms of the antibiotic-resistant bacteria, UF spokes-
woman Janine Sikes confirmed 
Monday. Symptoms of the bac-
teria, which is spread through hand contact, include swollen skin and fever. 
The infections came from 
both Beaty East and Beaty West, Sikes said. 
All common areas in the 
residence hall along with the 
infected students’ rooms were 
cleaned with a disinfectant 
that protects against the bac-teria. 
“There is no evidence to 
show that they are connected,” 
she said. “We have no reason 
to believe there will be another case.” 
Sikes said an email was 
sent to residents to encour-
age them to practice good 
hygiene by washing hands, 
keeping cleaned cuts covered 
and avoiding sharing personal items. 
“It’s fairly common in 
these kinds of environments 
to spread colds and flu and 
germs,” she said. 
Catherine Seemann, a com-
munications coordinator for 
the Student Health Care Cen-
ter, said the biggest culprit is 
sweaty gym equipment. 
“Make sure you are clean-
ing equipment before and after 
you use it,” she said. 
Seemann said the center of-
fers free hand sanitizer, which may help in keeping germ free, 
and she recommends speaking 
with a health care provider if 
symptoms are spotted. 
“They’re going to be the 
best judge of what next steps you need to take to get better,” 
she said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgTwo UF students 
diagnosed with MRSAFather strug-
gling to find women’s jer-seys for his daughter She wants women’s soccer jerseyTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
PENCILING PERSPECTIVES 
Meaghan Parmenter, 31, a Santa Fe College fine arts student, draws a linear perspective for her 
graphic design course on Monday afternoon in the Santa Fe corridors at 3000 NW 83rd St.
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office deputies pose with Big Guy, a 600-pound Hampshire hog who ran away from his owner’s home. 
THE GOAL IS TO 
REGISTER THE MOST 
VOTERS BY OCT. 11. 
By Lauren Ayers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Four days before the football 
game, UF is already losing to the University of Tennessee. 
Outside their athletics pro-
grams, the two schools are com-peting to see who can register the most voters at their respec-tive universities before Oct. 11. The competition is coordinated by UF’s Bob Graham Center for Public Service and Tennessee’s Howard H. Baker Jr. Center for Public Policy.
The Tennessee center reached 
out to UF earlier this year to or-ganize the competition. As of Monday, UF is losing to Tennes-see with 793 to 1,297 voters reg-istered, respectively.“(They) thought that they 
might be able to leverage what is a long-standing tradition of a football rivalry and kind of turn 
that into a voter registration ri-
valry,” said Shelby Taylor, the 
communications director for the 
Graham Center. She attributed 
the current standings to UF’s al-
ready high registration numbers. 
She said the school was hop-
ing that the Graham Center’s high performance in voter reg-
istration and voter participation 
would drive up their registration 
numbers and motivate students. 
“The winning school gets 
bragging rights and the de facto title of ‘Most Engaged Campus,’” 
Taylor said, “so really it’s more 
of a fun and friendly competi-
tion.”
Three student organizations, 
the Graham Center Student Fel-
lows, the Andrew Goodman 
Foundation’s Vote Everywhere 
Ambassadors and Chomp the Vote, are working to help regis-ter students to vote. Both univer-sities are using TurboVote, an online voting application.
TJ Pyche, the student com-
munications assistant for the Graham Center and president of 
the Graham Center Student Fel-
lows, says he believes UF stu-
dents are extremely engaged in 
registering to vote.
“You can’t walk through 
campus these days without hav-ing somebody ask you if you are 
registered to vote,” Pyche said. 
“The students at UF are doing a 
phenomenal job of making sure 
they’re engaged in the electoral 
process.”
The Graham Center has also 
been spreading the word about 
the competition on social me-
dia and plans to host a voter-
registration pizza party in Pugh 
Hall on Voter Registration Day, 
which is Sept. 27.UF races Tennessee to register votersTHIS ISN’T THE FIRST TIME 
HE HAS RUN AWAY.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After Rachael Colandreo heard 
her pet hog was missing, she 
found him on Facebook.
The 600-pound Hampshire hog, 
known as Big Guy or Boar, ran away from Colandreo’s Newberry property and was later found by Alachua County Sheriff’s Office deputies Sunday morning.
“He’s an escape artist,” Colan-
dreo said.
Big Guy was found in the 1200 
block of Southwest 274th Street in Newberry, said Art Forgey, a sher-
iff’s office spokesman.
After deputies caught the hog 
using a rope, they took him to 
the sheriff’s office’s livestock impound, Forgey said. Big Guy 
would have been auctioned off if 
Colandreo had not come forward to claim her hog.
When the office posted about 
the find and pending auction on its Facebook page, Colandreo 
could not believe it, she said.
“I looked on there and sure 
enough he was there,” she said. “I was shocked to see him on Face-
book.”
It’s not the first time Big Guy 
has run away. In the four to five 
years he has lived with Colandreo, 
he has run off multiple times, us-
ing his strength to knock down 
fencing.
“He’s like our big baby,” she 
said.
Colandreo said she plans to 
pick up Big Guy this week, and he’ll be greeted with a bag full of 
corn.
“He’ll get a nice meal,” she 
said. “I know that.” 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgBig Guy, a 600-pound 
hog, to return to ownerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Leave. Tebow. Alone.
Dear readers, we need to have a serious talk about Tim 
Tebow.
Before you get defensive, just take a second to 
breathe, and let’s be adults about this.
On Monday, the Gator Nation’s favorite football 
player walked into a batting cage and stared down a pitcher 
as a crowd of reporters watched. Hundreds of fans were in attendance, and, somewhere above him, a news station had enlisted the help of a helicopter to ﬂ  y above the ﬁ  eld.
It was the ﬁ  rst day of the New York Mets’ instructional 
league camp, and a damn helicopter was there. In case you aren’t familiar with instructional league camps, our sports sec-tion tells us they’re barely worthy of an audience greater than 
a few of the players’ proud mothers, let alone a helicopter.
We here at the Alligator are Tebow fans just as much as the 
rest of you. The guy was great. He won championships, played 
a ton of sports and did the thing with the Heisman Trophy. We salute you, Tebow.
But that was seven years ago.So, for Fuchs’ sake, why did we open up Snapchat today to 
be greeted by a new ﬁ  lter: “My thoughts on Tebow”?
Our thoughts on Tebow?
Are we all supposed to have some sort of strong opinion 
on the man?
For those of you who are living under a rock or just plain 
sports-challenged, Tebow decided to try his hand at baseball 
after failing at a professional career in the NFL. He then left 
the security of a gig as a college football analyst for the SEC 
Network and held a private workout for a bunch of Major League Baseball teams in August. And somehow, a 29-year-old former UF quarterback who hasn’t played competitive 
baseball since high school got a minor league offer from the 
New York Mets.
Some think the Mets did it for publicity. Some think they 
did it for jersey sales. And a select few ardently believe they did it because they saw the innate, athletic talent present in 
Tebow, who will inevitably win a golden glove and a batting 
title in his ﬁ  rst season in the majors.
To everyone, the Alligator asks: Who cares?Why do we care so much that Tebow wants to pursue his 
dreams?
And it’s not just us — UF students, professors and 
Gainesville residents — who care, though we probably have a better reason than most for the interest in Tebow’s life. It’s the entire nation. National news outlets are captivated by Tebow’s 
attempt to reconcile his athletic career in professional base-
ball, and it probably doesn’t hurt that he’s trying his comeback in the heart of one of the largest media conglomerates in the country. But is it really necessary to scrutinize every breath 
the man takes for the rest of his life?
This brings us back to the question that appeared on Snap-
chat this morning.
Our thoughts on Tebow?
Let the man pursue his dreams, and let’s all just get on with 
our lives. Stop the hour-by-hour coverage of Tebow walking from the water cooler to the outﬁ  eld, Tebow getting ﬁ  tted for the correct-size baseball glove, or Tebow practicing his base-running stance. Save the Snapchat ﬁ  lters for movie promo-
tions and puppy-face selﬁ  es.
You know how to tell when there’s too much media cover-
age about something that really doesn’t matter?
When there’s a damn helicopter there.One more SpongeBob column... I think...
This week, I wanted to talk about “Sponge-
Bob SquarePants” again. I also wanted to talk about slapstick, but I feel like I didn’t waste enough of your time explaining ex-actly why I wanted to delve so deeply into 
a show geared toward kids. So, I’m going to ex-plain that: why exactly I want to delve so deeply into a show geared toward kids. Let’s go.
Educational children’s television has always 
been pretty good at entertaining and educating. “Sesame Street,” “Little Einsteins” and “Caillou” are all good examples of shows parents should have their children watch because they teach, entertain and — most importantly — inspire creativity. 
Once children enter the education system, though, it’s 
pretty unlikely they’re going to want to come home to more learning, especially from programs that don’t really hide their intention to teach. 
So, a great way to introduce creativity and analysis is 
through comedy. Comedy is a creative exercise. It’s an art — it’s analysis, creative problem-solving and every other buzz-word associated with art as a positive force. It’s important to understand how to encourage creativity in younger children. So, how do you kick-start creativity in younger children with-out trying to shove it down their throats? Make them laugh.
Comedy, to me, is inherently the most fun art to analyze 
because the reward for analyzing it is laughter, and nothing kicks children into high gear like a feedback loop. Comedy is such an easy way to introduce creative thinking because we actively seek comedy out. The educational system assigns us classic and noteworthy books, but the stigma of books as an assignment makes analysis feel like a chore. That’s not the case with children’s shows. 
So, comedies are important for younger children, and the 
shows that we watched when we were young molded us. It’s important to give credit to the things that make us smile and to understand why they make us smile. For example, it makes us look bad when we cite “SpongeBob SquarePants” as one of our favorite shows, but then we see a more recent episode in which Mr. Krabs drives Plankton past the point of insanity or an episode in which SpongeBob gets a splinter so gross that it is no longer funny. If we equate what we see now with what we saw then, we completely discredit our past selves. There’s this mindset — especially in college — to mislabel ele-ments of the past as nostalgia and throw them out the window. Certainly we were all losers back in 
the day, but that doesn’t mean we can discard the art we grew up with.
There’s always this weird divide that springs up between 
what counts as art and what’s demoted to entertainment. The mindless, animated children’s shows you see on televi-sion are usually deemed entertainment, but putting a show like “SpongeBob SquarePants” under the light of analysis raises it to the art that it is. In doing research for this series of columns, I didn’t ﬁ  nd a single formal analysis of the show or of any other Nickelodeon shows.
Ideally, we’d go into any work of art and develop as art-
ists as we process it and reﬂ  ect on it. But surprisingly, even some of the most mature shows on television aren’t condu-cive to creative thinking; shows like “Game of Thrones” and “The Walking Dead” simply serve as fodder for conversa-tion with friends, and the exhilaration of watching the show doesn’t come from analyzing its narrative devices, but rather from simply taking in the plot.
Many of the shows children are exposed to can be mind-
numbing and nothing more than high-energy roller coasters of zaniness for zaniness’ sake. The same could be said of these modern popcorn dramas and their tension for tension’s sake. Judging a work of art should extend far beyond its in-tended age group. This is the concluding sentence.
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineering junior. His 
column appears on Tuesdays.
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As I said last week, I will be explor-
ing the effects of modern technol-ogy and our postmodern society, for good and for ill, in the next few col-umns. Last week, I discussed how 
smartphones and social media are often used as means to escape our deeper insecurities. This week, I will still be discussing this theme of escaping, but in a different way. And I will be addressing not just social media, but tech-nology as a whole: video games, the internet, binge watching on Netﬂ  ix or Hulu, etc.
The greater form of escapism technology 
allows us to indulge in a similar form I used 
during my ﬁ  rst semester of college just last 
year. I was struggling to connect with people on campus, wrestling with personal issues and my girlfriend was in another state attend-ing Louisiana State University. A lot of time 
was spent in my room, unfortunately, won-
dering how I went from having tons of friends back home to not that many here at UF. Truth be told, I was extremely sad and lonely, and it was not how I would have chosen to begin my college career.
I bring this up not to depress 
you, but to say this: While I was battling my sadness, a weird thing happened. I began to crave “Star Wars”; I watched it whenever I 
could. With friends, by myself, 
during the day, at 2 a.m.— I prob-ably watched all ﬁ  ve movies, not including “The Phantom Menace” — twice in a month. Thinking back, it seems my lone-
liness propelled me into the arms of “Star 
Wars” simply because I wanted to escape into that universe. When my attention wasn't turned to a lightsaber duel or the complexities 
of Yoda’s facial expressions, it was precisely 
where I wished it wasn’t: on my emptiness. 
It seems that my dissatisfaction with real-
ity caused me to try and escape into another reality, however nerdy it happened to be. In 
a similar fashion, I see many people absent 
mindedly using their phones whenever there is a free moment, as if they were portals that transported them into much more interesting worlds.
I wonder, though, if the rea-
son we use this technology so much is because it offers us what real life cannot: the abil-
ity to be the person we long to 
be. Through social media, I can present a ﬁ  ltered and deliber-
ately chosen image of myself that illumi-nates my good attributes and ignores my 
deep insecurities; through video games I can 
become a hero, a villain, a star athlete, an elite warrior, a legendary Pokemon trainer, etc. In short, modern technology allows us 
to escape to a limitless world in which we 
can control our experience of life, whether through posting a highly liked picture, play-ing an awesome video game or even shop-ping online. 
Why is it, though, that when offered the 
choice between a ﬁ  xed, limited world and a loose unbounded one, we choose the latter? Why do we prefer the world of potential over the world of actual? 
It seems people today exist in a constant 
contrast of experiences: We dwell in a space between what is and what we can manipu-late into being. I wonder what is so enchant-
ing about the prospect of being in control of 
what others see, of getting likes or views. Maybe technology is a mirror — an impartial tool that reﬂ  ects more about who we are as humans than about its own powers. We have 
mostly chosen thus far to use our phones not 
for the greater good but for personal fulﬁ  ll-ment. The ability to become virtually what we long to be in reality has proven too power-
ful. But is it good to always forsake this world 
for another one? Is it good if the only limit to what we can access or experience today is the size of our phone, computer or TV screen?
Scott Stinson is a UF English and phi-
losophy sophomore. His column appears on 
Tuesdays. 
 Loneliness and escapism technology: Lessons learned from ‘Star Wars’Column
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.org
Anyone who has interacted with me 
on a personal level or read my col-umns with some sort of frequency 
(Hi, Mom) knows that the gaping 
void known as ‘post graduate life’ 
has terriﬁ  ed me for some time now. From that fateful Preview session during which 
I was delicately reminded to keep the job 
market in mind when picking a major, to those recent sleepless nights spent torturing myself with questions like “Do I really want to go to law school?” any thoughts about 
the not-so-distant future have resulted in 
more anxiety than excitement. 
Maybe it’s the images of student loan 
agreements dancing in my mind, or may-
be it’s my post-grad friends telling me to 
cherish every moment of college — that there’s little to look forward to outside the city limits of Gainesville. Regardless, I’m not about to pretend like the remainder of 
my 20s is free of the fear that I might not 
reach my own deﬁ  nition of success. This is a new fear — one that I didn’t experience during the transition from high school to undergrad, 
as I had spent the majority of my 
life building up college to be my academic Promised Land. I knew I’d refer to college with the same 
longing, wistful tone my mother 
had when telling stories about high school. So where does that leave me now?
As I draft personal statements, schedule 
interviews and request letters of recommen-dation, I still feel as if law school and post-grad life are simply mirages, something I’m planning for but won’t actually experience. 
Similarly, that distinct senior year nos-
talgia continues to evade me. The closest I’ve come to grasping it are those moments where I’m overcome by the desire to mem-orize every facet of a scene, preserving it 
forever so I can return to it at some point in 
the future. I’m overwhelmed by the vague feeling that each day is ﬂ  eeting, turning into a memory before I even realize it.
The majority of my conversa-
tions with casual acquaintances and best friends alike revolve around future plans, despite those 
plans being mostly intangible and 
elusive. Some of us may have job offers lined up, our next 10 years laid out in front of us. Others may 
not even know what state they’ll be living 
in come next year. I ﬁ  nd myself in the latter 
camp, struggling to embrace the uncertainty despite my inescapable desire to make plans far in advance. 
But shouldn’t we be embracing this un-
certainty, this blissful ignorance of what’s to come? It all comes down to perspective and an active choice to either fear or revel in the looming void. Every senior is feeling 
a unique combination of identical emotions 
— namely distress, anticipation, nostalgia and superiority — so let’s ﬁ  nd comfort in the common experience. I’m sure the remi-niscing and shrieks of “This is our last (in-
sert collegiate activity here)!” won’t reach 
full force until Spring semester, but by then we’ll hopefully have some semblance of a post grad plan, something to look forward 
to and knowledge that we’re moving on to 
better things. 
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst one to admit my life has 
been one continuous cycle of anticipatory anxiety followed by the subsequent realiza-
tion that said stress was completely unnec-
essary. We all tend to underestimate our own resilience, and we should hold onto that as we face the deluge of job searches, 
graduate school applications and concerned 
parents. Senior year is a lot of things, but boring is not one of them. So take a deep breath, hold onto your sanity and relax, be-cause this year is going to be the best yet. 
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English senior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays. 
 Dealing with the uncertainty of post grad life and senior year anxietiesColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
A line stretched from the 
counter to the sidewalk at Krispy 
Kreme on Monday afternoon as 
doughnut fans celebrated Talk 
like a Pirate Day and ate free glazed doughnuts.
From women in striped shirts 
to children with eye patches and glaze around their mouths, the packed doughnut shop buzzed with sugar highs as Gainesville residents participated in the 
store’s holiday. The promotion, 
offered annually by Krispy Kreme, promised one free doughnut for talking like a pirate and one free dozen for dressing like one.
By 4 p.m., the Krispy Kreme 
on Northwest 13th Street by UF’s campus had already handed out around 5,000 doughnuts, said Megan Davis, an employee of the 
store for two years.
“And the night is only begin-
ning,” she said.
New this year was the Snap-
chat geotag option, which al-lowed patrons who did not want 
to dress up to take a photo with the official Krispy Kreme geotag for a free dozen donuts as well. 
UF health education seniors 
Melyssa Godfrey and Pamela Sanchez sported handmade eye-patches and shared a hook made from tinfoil. Their friend, Milan 
Kaur, said she opted to use the 
Snapchat filter instead. They had 36 doughnuts among the three of them.
Kaur said using Snapchat 
didn’t exactly violate any tradi-
tion.
“I don’t necessarily think it’s 
cheating to use the filter,” she 
said. “They posted about it on 
their Facebook page.”  The 21-year-olds said they 
celebrated last year and plan to 
continue collecting free dough-
nuts even after they move out of 
Gainesville.
Tara Winterman brought her 
three boys to eat free doughnuts, too. She said they came last year 
and decided to make it a tradi-
tion. 
Her 5-year-old son, Blake, 
made a hat at school today for the 
occasion.
“He just ate 10 doughnuts; 
he’s going to be so hyper to-
night,” Winterman said, “but he has a babysitter, so she should 
have fun.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgPirate Day brings crowds to Krispy Kreme
A pirate costume hat sits on boxes of 12 free doughnuts given by Krispy Kreme on Monday.
Vinny Reed, 6, wields a hook hand and a sword at Krispy Kreme during 
T alk Like a Pirate Day. He was one of several children who came with their families dressed up in pirate costumes.
WAYS TO EAT YOUR 
DOUGHNUTS
•  Slice in half, fill with ice 
cream
•  Slice in half, fill with 
strawberries and cream
•  Slice in half, fill with egg 
and bacon
•  And if you don’t own a 
knife, blend it with iced 
coffee.
Source: Reader’s Digest•   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   •   
Vinny’s brother wears a pirate costume at Krispy Kreme during T alk Like a Pirate Day on Mon-
day morning.PIRATES POSING 
FOR PASTRIES
Photos By Isabel Bonnet / Alligator StaffDressing up warranted a free dozen
“I don’t necessarily think it’s 
cheating to use the filter.”
Milan Kaur
Krispy Kreme customer who  
used a Snapchat filter to get a  
free dozen doughnutsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF researchers develop technique 
that detects salmonella more quickly in food 
A team of UF researchers have developed a 
method of testing that detects salmonella more quickly 
in foods. 
In a recent study, researchers used a signal ampliﬁ  -
cation technique when looking for traces of the bac-teria’s presence in foods. Salmonella is an intestinal bacteria found on contaminated food such as meat, poul-
try and eggs. It can cause food poisoning and other ill-
nesses. 
Soohyoun Ahn, an assistant professor in UF’s Insti-
tute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, has been working with pathogen testing for more than 15 years. She said 
the study is one of the ﬁ  rst ones she knows of that uses 
signal ampliﬁ  cation and involves using higher signals to improve testing sensitivity. 
“Scientists have worked to improve detection of sal-
monella and many others pathogens, and any improve-ment from current detection systems can help enhance public health and food safety,” Ahn said.
Having already compared the ampliﬁ  cation technique 
to other methods, Ahn said they will now test this meth-
od for other types of food products or other foodborne 
pathogens.
- Rosanne RamrajResearchers warn beekeepers to 
protect their bees from pesticides
UF professors are advising Florida beekeepers to 
protect their hives from aerial sprays. The sprays are 
responsible for killing mosquitoes in an effort to stop 
the spread of the Zika virus.
The recommendation came earlier this month after 
2.5 million bees were killed in South Carolina as a result 
of spraying Naled, a pesticide that kills all insects that 
come into contact with it.
The purpose of the aerial spraying of pesticides like 
Naled is to eliminate the spread of Zika, said William 
Kern, an associate professor of urban entomology at the UF/Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Fort Lau-
derdale Research and Education Center.
Kern said commercial beekeepers working on agri-
cultural lands are less susceptible to damage from these 
sprays because mosquitos are more likely to be present 
in residential places.
“Backyard beekeepers in residential areas are the 
ones that are at the greatest risk,” he said, “so they’re 
the ones that really need to think about how they’re go-ing to protect their hives.”
Backyard beekeepers can help protect their bees by 
covering hives with cardboard during spraying or using biological pesticide BTI instead of Naled.
- Molly Vossler
IT IS UNKNOWN 
WHETHER ALCOHOL 
WAS INVOLVED
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A head-on car crash Sunday eve-
ning killed two women, one from 
Gainesville and the other from Wal-do, Florida.
At about 6:30 p.m. Sunday, 
Brittany Nichole Griswell, 28, of Gainesville, was driving westbound 
in the 6900 block of NE 39th Ave. 
when she lost control of her car on a long curve in the road, according to a statement released by Gainesville Police.
As Griswell’s 2010 Toyota Corolla left the road, she overcorrected her driving and swerved into eastbound trafﬁ  c, according to the statement.
The incident occurred near 
Gainesville Regional Airport and Newnans Lake, about six miles from downtown.
Drenda Dale Weaver, 52, of 
Waldo, was driving eastbound in a 2015 Nissan Sentra when Griswell’s car struck her, killing Weaver at the scene, according to the statement.
The impact threw Griswell from 
her seat and onto the road, according 
to the statement.
She was later pronounced dead 
after suffering serious injuries, ac-
cording to the statement.
A deputy from the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce was ﬁ  rst to respond, but GPD is currently con-ducting a trafﬁ  c homicide investiga-tion, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias.
It is unknown whether drugs or 
alcohol were involved in the crash, according to the statement.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org Two women killed in head-on collision near GNV airportWheat production decreases as tem-
peratures rise
After nearly ﬁ  ve years of study, UF researchers have 
predicted that for every degree global temperatures in-
crease, wheat production will decrease about 6 percent. 
The study came after the researchers collaborated 
with scientists in 15 countries and used a combination of simulations and statistical methods. The three methods all produced similar results, making them accurate on a 
global scale, said Senthold Asseng, a UF professor and 
the leader of the study. 
“In a way, it was positive in general, because it gives 
us conﬁ  dence that what we do probably makes sense,” Asseng said. 
He said the predicted decrease in wheat production 
will present challenges as the global population increases.
The simulations focused on wheat, Asseng said, be-
cause it is one of the world’s most important food crops 
and provides 20 percent of the calories humans consume. 
In the future, scientists plan to expand the study to fo-
cus on crops such as maize, rice and soybeans, and they 
also plan to include other factors besides temperature in-crease. Asseng said he also hopes to secure direct fund-
ing or a grant for their research, which it currently lacks. 
“It has been very difﬁ  cult for us to get funding, even 
though I think we are doing really important things, and 
we are quite successful at delivering results,” he said.
- Nealy KehresBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-30-16-29-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
10-12-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-131For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedSEPTEMBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
WGFL TV (CBS4) is seeking technically inclined, detail oriented people for full-time Control Room Operator positions. Must be able to work nights and weekends. Go to mycbs4.com, hover on "about us" and follow the Careers link for more information. Equal opportunity employer.     9-21-16-2-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Oak Hall School is looking for coaches in the sports of soccer (girls) and tennis (girls). Application and more information can be found at www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment    9-22-16-7-14
 ACROSS
1 Pilothouse
wheels
6 Sphere in a
library
11 Cheering syllable
14 Use a broom
15 Lubricate again
16 Touchdown
approx.
17 Adjusted sales
figure on which
some royaltiesare based
19 Bus. get-together20 Gentle touch21 Letter that opens
with a click
23 Headache
treatment
26 Concerning, on
memos
27 Seasonal bug
28 Wood-finishing
tool
33 Tennessee
senator __
Alexander
36 Zoo critter with
striped legs
37 Brass instrument
played like a
trumpet
42 “Sure, I’ll give
you a ride”
43 Sleep audibly
45 Long, narrow
mollusks
50 Hotel divs.
51 Poet Khayyám52 Place for
meditation
55 Intense
personality
57 Response to a
clever put-down
59 Actress Hagen60 Motto for the
cautious ... or a
hint to the startsof 17-, 28-, 37-and 45-Across
65 Washington
MLBer
66 Mount in Exodus
67 Lucky break68 Genetic info
letters
69 Seagoing mil.
training group
70 Spine-tingling
DOWN
1 QVC rival
2 Baaing mom3 Tennis do-over4 Gracias, across
the Pyrenees
5 Hurled weapon
6 “The Heart of the
Matter” novelist
Graham
7 Hawaiian floral
rings
8 “Uh-oh!”9 Stand-up routine
10 Besides
11 Send back, as to
a lower court
12 Clothing
13 “Marvelous”
Marvin of boxing
18 Bed with high
sides
22 Yellow
“Despicable Me”character
23 CIO partner24 Balkan native
25 Shoe company
with a cat in its
logo
29 Doone of Exmoor30 Ref’s ruling31 Retired newsman
Donaldson
32 LAPD alerts
34 1990s veep
35 Camper driver,
for short
38 And so on: Abbr.39 Shop __ you drop
40 Par
41 Clever Bombeck
44 Contractor’s fig.
45 Portly46 “The Joy Luck
Club” novelist
47 Mexican
revolutionaryplayed by Brando
48 Word before
“Pizza” or “River,”
in film49 PlayStation maker
53 Social faux pas
54 Lots and lots
56 Part of AAA:
Abbr.
57 Point __ return
58 Qualifying race
61 __ conditioner
62 Capek’s robot
play
63 Slide down the
slopes
64 Collarless shirt
By Patti Varol©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/20/1609/20/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, September 20, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12   ALLIGATOR    SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Opus Coffee is now HIRING baristas. The ideal candidate has an AWESOME personal -
ity, a FUN attitude, and is the type of person that GOES THE EXTRA MILE. You must be available to work between 12 to 24 hours per week. Starting wage plus tips = $12.00/hr.
To apply, scroll to the bottom of our website, 
opuscoffee.com, click on the employment tab and follow the directions.     9-23-16-10-14
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        9-21-16-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
What makes you tick?
The non-profit Center for Applications of 
Psychological Type is seeking volunteers 
who want to explore their personality in a study looking at the links between knowl -
edge of personality, behavior, and attitudes 
towards others.
You will receive compensation, take a free 
personality assessment, and receive expert 
feedback on your results. To learn more and 
take a brief eligibility survey:
www.capt.org/etv
etvstudy@capt.org
(352) 375 – 0160
9-20-16-5-20
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching 
Center offers this workshop M - R, 9/26-9/29 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-
ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then "workshops” to register.     9-26-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ENO HAMMOCKS!
Single and Double Nest Hammocks - lots of colors in stock now. Just 1 mile N of UF on 13th St. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 352-372-7836     9-20-16-5-18
15 Services 14 Help Wanted 19 Connections 24 Pets
 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Jacoby Brissett saw action at 
quarterback for the New England Patriots on Sunday, but he wasn't the only former Gator to play over the weekend. Read the story on pg 16. Kickoff time for Vanderbilt announced
The Florida football team's game against Vanderbilt on Oct. 1 will begin at 
noon, the Southeastern Conference announced Monday. The game will air on the SEC Network. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Luke Del Rio saw his man 
and flung the ball toward 
him. 
His receiver ran under it 
and hauled it in, falling after the 53-yard reception in the first quarter of Florida’s 32-0 
win over North Texas. 
It was the second time in 
as many weeks that Florida 
fans erupted after a long pass play, but there were 
two main differences. 
First, this pass didn’t end 
in a touchdown. Second, the 
receiver who made the first 
play was Antonio Callaway. 
But on Saturday, it 
wasn’t Callaway. He didn’t 
play in the game due to a quadriceps injury. And in 
this week’s game at Ten-
nessee, he may be held out once again. 
“We’ll see what hap-
pens,” coach Jim McElwain said of Callaway’s injury. 
“He’s hurting pretty good.”
The player on the re-
ceiving end of the 53-yard 
hookup was true freshman Josh Hammond, and come 
Saturday in Knoxville, the 
Gators may have to turn to him again. 
He played in Callaway’s 
place against North Texas. 
Some other replacement 
options include senior Ah-mad Fulwood, junior C.J. Worton and freshman Fred-
die Swain, though the three 
of them combined have pro-duced less yards in three games than Callaway has in 
two. 
Despite missing the North 
Texas game, the sophomore 
still leads the Gators with 201 receiving yards and is 
tied for the team lead with 
two receiving touchdowns. 
He first became an estab-Callaway questionable for road game against Tennessee
He sat last weekend 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway (right) walks on the field prior to Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Saturday at Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium. UF coach Jim McElwain said Callaway is questionable for Saturday's game at T ennessee.
FLORIDA NEXT PLAYS AT 
THE LAS VEGAS 50K ON 
SEPT. 26.
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
Of all the activities Roland 
Thornqvist participates in with 
the women’s tennis team, laser tag is his favorite.
“We did it for the first time maybe a couple years ago, and they loved it,” the UF coach said.
Who won?“(The coaches) kicked their 
butts,” Thornqvist said. “And 
then (the players) cheated and 
then they started winning.”
The players also saw their 
share of victories on the courts this past weekend. 
The team took home four tro
-
phies in their season-opener at the Duke Bonk Invitational, two in the singles category and two in the doubles.
“I thought we played really 
well and we actually played bet
-
ter this weekend in competition than we have in practice, and it’s usually not like that, especially not early in the season,” Thorn
-
qvist said. 
“I think maybe this is such a 
veteran team. All our players are around 20 or older and when we roll out the balls in real compe
-
tition they have been there and done that before.”
Thornqvist added that Flori
-
da’s players — all of whom are upperclassmen — have made en
-
couraging progress during their time at UF. 
“I compared our performance 
two years ago when some of these players were freshmen,” Thornqvist said. “We just look different, you know. We look more mature and we can prob
-
lem solve a lot easier and our body language is better.”
Junior Josie Kulhman was one 
of the Gators who put on an es
-
pecially impressive performance this weekend. The 5-foot-6 Ponte Vedra native captured a singles title in dominating fashion. She Florida women's tennis claims four trophies in season openerSOCCER
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
When senior forward Savannah 
Jordan was asked about scoring the 
72nd goal of her career, moving her 
up to No. 2 on Florida’s all-time ca -
reer goal list, the first thing she did was give credit to her teammates.
Jordan now ranks behind only 
Abby Wambach, who had 96 goals 
during her career at Florida.
But if you know Jordan, or if you 
have watched her play, it is appar -
ent that her team-focused mentality after such an impressive milestone isn’t unusual.
“Savannah has scored goals since 
the first day she got here,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. 
“I think what’s cool about it is 
that she always credits her team
-
mates, from the services she receives or passes she receives to score. But she is always driven and hungry to score goals.”
That has been a theme not only 
for Jordan, but the entire team this 
season  — unselfishness and perse
-
verance on and off the field.
Even after a road loss to Arkansas Jordan's unselfishness a reflection of resilient UF soccer team
Jordan
SEE NOTEBOOK,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
The Florida men’s and wom -
en’s cross country teams only 
have one opportunity to compete in front of a home crowd this season.
It’ll happen Saturday at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course, where both teams will get  to showcase their abilities at UF’s Mountain Dew Invitational.
And they don’t want to waste 
this opportunity.
“We’ll have a lot of parents 
here,” coach Paul Spangler said. “We have a big parent-athlete luncheon after the meet, so they’ll be there watching, and certainly their friends will be there.”
With five more regular season 
races to go along with four pos
-
sible Southeastern Conference and NCAA regional and national races, the chance to perform in front of familiar faces is scarce.
And while having friends and 
family watching them can cause some nerves, it might not be the most intimidating part.
“For a lot of these athletes, 
their high school coaches will be here watching them too,” Span
-
gler said.
Twenty of the 37 athletes on 
the cross country roster are from high schools within Florida, and racing in front of mentors and people who have helped them succeed adds pressure to an al
-
ready competitive meet.
Due to the inclusion of a high 
school invitational, the meet will be more important than any oth
-
er regular-season meet. 
The day gives potential re -
cruits the ability to prove them -
selves on a bigger stage, with more than 48 high schools par
-ticipating for the men and 47 for the women.  
It also gives Florida’s talent 
scouts the luxury of evaluating athletes without traveling too 
far.
In addition, Florida can play 
its full lineup. 
New faces are expected when 
the race begins, such as fresh
-
men Jessica Pascoe and Colin Schaefer, both of whom will be 
making their debuts as Gators.
Norwegian sophomore Mag -
nus Pettersen will also make his season debut after missing the Covered Bridge Open on Sept. 2 and will look to improve after racing in four meets his fresh
-
man year. 
And redshirt sophomore Paige 
Scheriger will make her first appearance for the team after spending her last two years on 
the Florida swimming and diving team.
Coach Spangler said that 
while distractions may arise with 
the meet being at home, Florida needs to be locked in on the No. 1 goal.
“We wanna come out of the 
meet with a win, he said. 
“We know it’ll be a very com
-
petitive meet on both sides, so we gotta be ready for them.”
@Skylerlebron
Slebron@alligator.orgMountain Dew Invitational more than a regular competition
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Gregg Troy encourages his swimmers 
during Florida’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O’Connell Center. 
THE GATORS WILL REST 
THEIR OL YMPIANS IN THIS 
WEEKEND’S MEET, THEIR 
FIRST OF THE SEASON.
By Drew Kozlin
Sports Writer
The word freshman has a natu-
ral tendency to plague the minds of coaches and fans with thoughts of in-experience and poor performance.
However, for UF swimming and 
diving coach Gregg Troy, the word should bring nothing but enthusiasm.
After signing a combined 27 recruits 
this offseason (15 women, 12 men), Troy said his young athletes aren’t go-ing to be the weakness of his team. In fact, they may be its backbone.
“We’ve got so many freshmen,” 
Troy said. 
“Actually a freshman dominated 
team to some extent.”
And with so much youth on the 
roster, one would think the coaching staff will be busy preparing its inexpe-rienced athletes. 
But Troy believes the freshmen’s 
biggest problem will be how common-ly they’ve experienced success.
“I think the main challenge is they’re very accomplished, and they’ve got a wide range of backgrounds and experiences,” Troy said. 
“But it’s still different in a club set-
ting than what it is when you’re com-peting in the NCAA where every race matters, not just for yourself but also for the people around you.”
The first tournament, the All-Flori-
da Invitational, takes place this week-end in Fort Lauderdale at Nova South-eastern University. 
If the Gators want to match their 
lofty expectations, they’re going to need all they can get out of their prodi-gious freshman class. 
The group will be relied on even 
heavier during the first portion of the season as the athletes who competed in Rio this summer won’t be back in the water just yet. Troy said those swimmers won’t compete until Octo-ber.
 “They probably could compete real 
well, but I think the competition level is one that, for them at the moment, they’re getting their heads on straight and getting a chance to get squared away academically,” Troy said.
With talented teams like Miami 
and Florida Gulf Coast lying on the women’s side and a handful of solid opponents on the men’s side, Troy is interested to see how the young squad fares. 
The coach was confident about 
highly-touted male recruit Maxime Rooney, who ranked among the top-three high school recruits in the na-tion.
“He was a finalist at the Olympic 
trials, widely looked at as one of the best in his age group,” Troy said.
And while he knows not to create 
high expectations too early on, Troy couldn’t shy away from the opportu-nity to discuss his freshmen on the women’s side either.
“We’ve got Kay Sargent, Savanna 
Faulconer, several others that have been on the U.S. junior national team,” Troy said.
 “And Emma Ball is a very high 
profile international swimmer from Canada that the Canadians feel very strongly about.”
So, as the word freshman continues 
to bring headaches to countless coach-es across the country, it’s hard not to imagine Troy will be quietly grin-ning when another one of his talented youngsters gets called to the block this weekend.
@DrewKoz2
dkozlin@alligator.org
Young UF swim team ready for seasonIt’s UF’s only home meet of the season
Alligator File Photo
Florida cross country athletes run during the 2015 Mountain Dew Invitational at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. Then-senior Eddie Garcia (157) went on to win the race. 
lished threat last season against 
Tennessee when he took a fourth-down catch 63 yards for a game-deciding touchdown. Re-gardless, McElwain said he’s go-ing to be extremely cautious with 
bringing his star receiver back. 
“I’m not going to put a guy out there on half a leg,” he said. 
“Life is too short, and there are other people who will step up 
and play.”No second-string QB:
With Luke Del Rio ruled out 
for this weekend’s SEC East bout 
against Tennessee, redshirt senior 
Austin Appleby is Florida’s pre-sumed starter. 
A graduate transfer from Pur-
due, Appleby has touted his big-
game and big-stadium experience 
in the past, as he played in 17 games with the Boilermakers and started 11 of them. 
His understudies, though, 
won’t have the same credentials. 
Backup quarterback duty 
against Tennessee will fall to ei-ther Feleipe Franks or Kyle Trask, 
who are both true freshmen. 
Franks was a four-star recruit 
who Florida flipped from LSU 
while Trask was a career backup 
at his Texas high school. 
Neither has played in a college 
game. 
McElwain said on Monday he 
hasn’t made a decision on who he’ll turn to if Appleby goes 
down, adding that he’ll decide sometime this week. 
“We’ve got to make sure that 
Feleipe and Kyle are ready,” McElwain said.Containing Dobbs:A season ago, Tennessee quar-
terback Joshua Dobbs led the 
Volunteers in passing yards (83), 
rushing yards (136) and receiv-ing yards (58) against the Gators. McElwain knows his team can’t expect to win with a repeat per-
formance.  
“I’m sure in their minds this is 
a walk in the park for them and 
probably should think that based 
on how we performed against 
them a year ago,” he said. 
“We’ll see.”Linebacker Jarrad Davis is also 
aware of Dobbs’ success, say-
ing that he hasn’t forgotten what 
Dobbs did a season ago. 
“Last year he put a hurting on 
us pretty bad,” Davis said. 
Still, he was confident in 
Florida’s defense. Through three games, it leads the SEC in to-tal defense, scoring defense and sacks. 
“We put ourselves in a lot of 
bad situations last year,” Davis said. 
“We’re going to try to ensure 
that we don’t do that this year.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
NOTEBOOK,  from pg 13UF has not made a decision on who will back up Appleby at QB
on Friday, No. 4 Florida (6-2) re -
fused to play victim coming into 
Sunday’s match against in-state rival UCF.
They defeated the Knights 
3-2 after scoring a goal with less than three minutes to play.
It was at a point of the game 
where other teams might have panicked.
But not the Gators.“It’s a great trait of this team. 
This team shows a lot of fight,” 
Burleigh said. 
“It is very, very easy, given 
the circumstances we faced, to 
take the victim role, and I am re
-
ally glad we didn’t. I think that’s a big credit to the both the lead
-
ership of our team and everyone who is playing.”
Now that the Gators have 
wrapped up non-conference play, their season only gets 
tougher as they face a slate of 
Southeastern Conference op
-
ponents and attempt to defend their 2015 SEC regular-season and tournament titles.
They play nine straight SEC 
opponents to close out the regu
-
lar season, starting with Auburn at home on Thursday.
“The last time we played Au
-
burn, it wasn’t a good result for us,” Burleigh said. 
“They have some danger
-
ous players. … Everyone at this point is prepared and knows how much these SEC games 
mean.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 13Florida beat UCF 3-2
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan (7) celebrates with her teammates during Florida's 3-2 win over UCF on Sunday at 
James G. Pressly Stadium. 
won 6-3, 6-3 against Miami’s 
Maci Epstein.
“She’s just such a pro, you 
know, how she approaches this whole thing. It was the best I’ve 
seen Josie play, probably ever,” 
Thornqvist said. “Talk about a kid who’s feisty and competitive, she is not afraid and she will play every point like it’s the last one.”
Despite their excellent per
-
formance, the Gators still have things to improve on, including their fitness.
“Fitness clearly can be one of 
those little things that will sepa
-
rate one player from another,” Thornqvist said. “I think that’s one of the things we need to do a better job of this year.”That aspect of the game will 
be especially critical as the team heads into its next tournaments 
at the Las Vegas 50k on Sept. 26 
and the Riviera ITA All American Championships beginning Oct. 1.
“We are going to continue to 
hammer away with some fitness and strength,” Thornqvist said. “When you play in the All-Amer
-
ican Championships, the deeper you get at that draw the stiffer the competition is, so obviously if you lack fitness then you have no chance.”
But with a team that has this 
kind of experience, Thornqvist 
said Florida will be ready — for 
the next tournament and for the rest of the season.
“They know that there are a 
few things in each of their games that they need to improve on, and what I’ve seen is that they are very willing to address those in practice,” Thornqvist said. “I assume and count on the fact that we are going to continue to 
improve upon that and be a bet
-
ter team come January and Feb -
ruary than we are now.”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgTENNIS,  from pg 13Thornqvist: 'It was the best I've seen Josie play, probably ever'Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Jarrad Davis (40) leads his teammates onto the field prior to Florida's 32-0 win over North 
T exas on Saturday. Through three games, UF's defense leads the SEC in sacks.
16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2016
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.
GATORS IN THE NFL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Week 2 of the NFL season gave 
Gators fans plenty to watch: a 
Florida transfer quarterbacking the 
Patriots,  two Gators leading the 
Redskins’ offense, Joe Haden inter-cepting two passes from Joe Flacco and Dante Fowler breaking through 
the backﬁ  eld against San Diego. Brissett in the backﬁ  eld:New England is expected to trot 
out former Florida quarterback Ja-
coby Brissett against Houston on Thursday Night Football after he 
ﬁ  lled in against Miami last week-
end.  
On Sunday, New England starter 
Jimmy Garoppolo took a hard hit to the shoulder that resulted in a sprained AC joint, according to NFL 
Network’s Ian Rapoport.
Brissett — who backed up Jeff 
Driskel at UF in 2012 and then 
transferred to North Carolina State — relived Garoppolo with a 21-0 
lead in the second quarter. 
He went 0-for-2 in the ﬁ  rst half 
but led a touchdown drive to start 
the second. 
He earned his ﬁ  rst NFL comple-tion on a short play-action pass to 
uncovered tight end Martellus Ben-
nett. The catch-and-run resulted in 
a 37-yard gain, and two more com-pletions set up a touchdown run by LeGarrette Blount. 
Brissett ﬁ  nished the second half 
6-of-7 for 92 yards with 12 yards rushing. 
“I think he did a lot of good 
things, not perfect,” coach Bill Belichick said according to the Houston Chronicle. “Lot of things to work on, probably true for ev-erybody.”
Runners and Receivers:Florida’s lead running back from 
2012 made waves in the AFC East in Week 2. 
On Thursday, Buffalo’s Mike 
Gillislee dove for a fourth-quarter score on his only touch of the game. 
The half back caught a short 
pass from Tyrod Taylor, split two New York Jets defenders, bulled over a third and leapt forward to complete an 18-yard touchdown reception. 
Washington continues to make 
good use of its talented Florida tan-dem, tight end Jordan Reed and running back Matt Jones. Reed led the team in receiving Sunday with ﬁ  ve catches for 70 yards. 
Jones scored the Redskins’ ﬁ  rst 
touchdown when he bounced out-side his blockers and cut through Dallas Cowboys defenders along the left sideline for a 14-yard dash capped by a dive for the pylon. He ﬁ  nished the game averaging 4.7 yards per carry on 13 rushes. 
Sacks and Defensive Backs:Dante Fowler was responsible for two of Jacksonville’s three sacks on Philip Rivers on Sunday. Fowler also had two tackles for loss in the 
Jaguars’ 38-14 loss to the Chargers. 
Los Angeles Rams defensive 
tackle Dominique Easley stuffed Se-
attle’s Thomas Rawls for a 1-yard loss in the second quarter of his 
team’s game and ﬁ  nished with 
three total tackles and a pass de-
ﬂ  ection. 
Cleveland’s Joe Haden intercept-
ed two passes against Baltimore on 
Sunday. Haden jumped a receiver’s 
route and guessed correctly as he 
picked off a pass halfway through 
the ﬁ  rst quarter. 
After getting beat down the left 
sideline by Steve Smith Sr. to start 
the second half, Haden made an 
adjustment minutes later and inter-
cepted his second pass on a similar 
route in the end zone to preserve 
a one-point lead. The Ravens came 
back to win 25-20. 
Tampa Bay’s Vernon Hargreaves 
played all but four snaps in a loss to Arizona, according to the Tampa 
Bay Times. His best moment came 
when he stuffed Cardinals running 
back David Johnson for a loss in 
the redzone. He left the game brief-
ly with an ankle injury and ﬁ  nished 
with ﬁ  ve solo tackles. 
In Atlanta’s 35-28 win over Oak-
land, two Florida safeties made the stat sheet. 
Veteran Reggie Nelson led the 
Raiders with 12 total tackles and 10 
solo tackles on Sunday, while un-drafted rookie Brian Poole doubled 
his solo tackles from last week, 
ﬁ  nishing the game with four for 
Atlanta.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org  Brissett quarterbacking Patriots, two INTs for Haden
The Associated Press
New England Patriots quarterback Jacoby Brissett (7) scrambles away from Miami Dolphins defensive end Mario Williams (94) during the second half of New England’s 31-24 win on Sunday.
