We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 9 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
Savannah Jordan leading UF oﬀ  ense
Florida plays FSU on Friday, pg. 14
Wake N Bake festival highlights local rock bands
It’s being held at the High Dive on Friday and Saturday, pg. 8
The Atlantic to host Beyoncé dance party
It’s to celebarate the singer’s 35th birthday, pg. 9UF gets new rankings
See how the school does for beer and 
parties, pg. 3
By Emma Green, 
Caitlin Ostroff and 
Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writers
Alachua County residents 
should brace for heavy rain and 
possible tornadoes, Florida Gov. Rick Scott said during a speech in Gainesville on Wednesday.
Under gray skies outside the 
Alachua County Communica-tions and Emergency Operations Center, Scott said the county could see up to 10 inches of rain as Tropical Storm Hermine, for-merly Tropical Depression Nine, travels from the Gulf of Mexico to northern Florida.
“It’s headed in this direction,” 
he said, adding the storm would cause ﬂ  ooding and downed pow-er lines across the county.
On Wednesday morning, 
Scott issued a state of emergency for 42 Florida counties, includ-ing Alachua. By doing this, the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency can provide aid to people 
in those counties.
He advised residents to follow 
news of the storm and stock up on food, water and any medi-cines they may need.
The county announced Wednesday that its 311 Rumor 
Control phone number is now 
active. Residents can call the 
number to verify information on 
the storm, according to a press release.
As of press time, UF has no 
plans to cancel classes. 
John Hines, a UF spokesman, 
said everything is on schedule for 
classes to continue.
Any decision to cancel classes 
would take into account Regional Transit System bus schedules and 
possible cancellations among oth-
er factors, he said.
Chip Skinner, an RTS spokes-
man, said city busses will stop running if winds surpass 35 miles per hour. As of press time, the tropical storm was producing 45-mile-per-hour winds, accord-ing to the National Weather Ser-
vice.
If those winds come to 
Gainesville, Skinner said bus 
drivers will complete their  last routes and deliver any remaining passengers.
“The goal is to keep both our 
passengers and our employees as safe as possible,” he said.
About 75 percent of RTS rid-
ers are UF students, he said. Rid- Gov. Scott visits GNV, discusses storm
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Heart monitors beeped rhythmi-
cally as Scarlett and Savannah, twin 
girls born conjoined at the heart, liver, sternum and diaphragm, were reunited Wednesday for the ﬁ  rst time since being surgically separated in June.
The girls, both 4 months old, 
were rolled into a UF Health press conference by their mother, Jacque-lyn. Wearing matching blue ﬂ  oral dresses, Scarlett slept in her car seat perched on a double stroller, and Sa-vannah blinked amid doctors, nurses and cameras.
Three months ago, however, there was little hope they would survive their rare separation at UF Health Shands Hospital, which spanned about eight hours with 12 individual procedures.
“From one end to the other, it’s 
been an amazing experience — a real roller coaster of a ride,” the girls’ father, Mark, said at the press confer-ence. “We’re just thankful for every-body, all the staff — from the CEO to the lady that cleaned our room.”
The girls were born April 12 at 
Shands after being referred there from another hospital when their mother was 22 weeks pregnant, said Dr. Jennifer Co-Vu, a UF Health spe-cialist in fetal cardiac care. After surgery at Shands, 
conjoined twins recovering
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police arrested a man Wednesday morn-
ing after they said he exposed his penis to a female UF 
student in the Norman Hall Parking Garage, located near Sorority Row.
At about 11:30 a.m. Wednesday, Alexander Purcell 
Jones, 31, was arrested after at least one witness saw the man touching himself in the southwest corner stairwell  of the garage and called University Police, said Maj. Brad Barber, a UPD spokesman.
Jones stared at the woman and her 
female friend while masturbating, ac-cording to a UPD report. The incident 
occurred at 11:18 a.m.
“This is an excellent example of 
individuals who witnessed that crime 
taking place and then notifying law 
enforcement,” Barber said.
Jones has been charged with ex-
posure of sexual organs and disorderly conduct, accord-
ing to the report. Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he remains, as of press time, without 
bond.
Earlier this year, three instances of an unknown man 
masturbating in the Norman Garage were reported to UPD, according to Alligator archives. This happened twice in January and once in February.
Ofﬁ  cers will investigate to see if Jones is connected 
to those.
“It’s something we’re going to look into,” Barber said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgMan arrested for public masturbation 
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Savannah (left) and Scarlett, once conjoined twins, are separated for the ﬁ  rst time after 12 procedures. The sisters were connected through their hearts and their shared liver, diaphragm and sternum.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
During a press conference in Gainesville on Wednesday, Florida Gov. Rick Scott warned residents about Tropical Depression Nine, which has since been upgraded to a tropical storm.
SEE 
TWINS,  PAGE 3SEE HERMINE,  PAGE 4Jones
State of emergency declaredSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  75°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 
2410 NW 43rd St., invites you to learn the ancient art of belly dancing in a free master class. It will be Sept. 10 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 for more infoGot something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please sub-mit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please keep submissions to 150 words or fewer.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 9
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
PRINCETON REVIEW 
RANKED UF AS NO. 6 FOR 
“LOTS OF BEER. ”
By Paige Fry  
and Jimena T avel 
Alligator Writers 
UF’s reputation as a party school 
is going down, but its reputation as 
an affordable university is going up.
The Princeton Review released its 
2017 rankings Monday, naming UF No. 6 in its “Lots of Beer,” category, No. 18 for “Best College Newspa-per” and No. 18 in “Party Schools.” Another website, Value Colleges, considers UF the No. 1 “Best Value” college. 
“These are the rankings by the 
students,” said Amy Briskin, a Princ-eton Review spokeswoman. “This is 
not what the administration thinks 
or what an outside panel of experts 
think.”
Princeton Review surveyed 
143,000 students at 381 colleges, 
asking students to rank their univer-
sities on different categories includ-
ing their school’s administration, life 
at college and peers.
Briskin said the “Lots of Beer” 
category refers to how widely beer 
is used on campus. The University 
of Wisconsin-Madison took the No. 
1 spot for “Lots of Beer,” and Ohio’s 
University of Dayton took second.
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said the university’s ranking as a 
party school has fallen in the past 
few years. In 2014, Princeton Re-
view ranked UF No. 6 on its “Party Schools” list. 
“I’m not sure why that (drop) is, 
but I would guess it’s because our 
reputation as an academic institution 
is growing,” Orlando said. 
He said the “Lots of Beer” rank-
ing is news to him. 
“Well, for ‘Lots of Beer,’ I’m 
not exactly sure what it means, but probably some students’ parents wouldn’t be too happy to hear that,” 
Orlando said. 
Value Colleges, a ranking web-
site, reviewed and listed more than 
250 colleges and universities based 
on return on investment, cost and 
reputation for its list of “Top 50 Best 
Value Colleges for 2017.” 
UF President Kent Fuchs said he 
sees the website’s ranking as a com-
bination of the university’s excel-lence and financial accessibility.
“We have almost a third of our 
students receive a Pell Grant, and 
Pell Grants are financial aid from 
the federal government,” Fuchs said. “That’s an amazingly high percent-
age, and I’m very proud of that.” 
Roselyn Roderick, 20, said 
UF’s tuition pays off because she’s 
learned a lot from her professors and she enjoys the university’s friendly 
atmosphere.
“My financial aid has really 
helped me at UF, because I can just 
focus on school and I don’t have to 
struggle to support myself to get a 
good education,” the UF elementary 
education masters student said. 
Ronit Dastidar, 20, said he 
doesn’t understand why the Princ-
eton Review even ranks categories like “Party Schools” and “Lots of 
Beer.” 
“There are a lot of parties that go 
on here,” the UF microbiology ju-
nior said. “But at the same time, UF students are really good with doing 
their work and stuff like that during 
the week, and then they’ll have fun 
during the weekend.” UF places high for beer, affordability and parties in new rankings
“We have followed them 
throughout the pregnancy, and we 
have had multiple interdisciplinary meetings as to what the plan is,” Co-
Vu said. “When we saw the babies’ 
heart, we thought, ‘Maybe there is a 
plan of possible separation.’”
Mark and Jackie, who declined 
to give their last names, were given 
three options: The babies could both 
die, one could survive or they could 
both live.
“We are very humbled that the 
parents decided to trust us and say, 
‘Let’s try separation,’” Co-Vu said.
The team that would eventually 
separate the twins consisted of sur-
geons, radiologists, neonatologists and several others from different de-partments. They spent hundreds of hours planning the procedures, Co-Vu said.
From a cardiac computerized to-
mography scan, the team was able 
to print a 3-D, to-scale model of the 
heart Scarlett and Savannah shared, which later became two separate 
hearts. The model was the first of 
its kind, according to a press release. 
Co-Vu said the model proved invalu-
able in the planning of the separation surgery.
Dr. Mark Bleiweis, the chief of 
pediatric and congenital cardiovas-
cular surgery at UF Health, said fi-
nally seeing Scarlett and Savannah separated made all the hard work worth it.
“The importance of doing some-
thing like this is obvious,” he said. “We take a set of twins and we sepa-rate them — we basically gave them their life, and this is a wonderful 
thing for this family. It was an in-
credible feeling. Every day when you 
go in and see the babies in separate 
cribs, it’s phenomenal.”
Since the surgery, the twins have 
been recovering at the hospital. They are now preparing to go home for 
the first time, their parents said.
“We wanted so much to see them 
separated; now it just feels so good 
to see them back together again,” 
Mark said. “The whole experience 
was certainly something that we 
didn’t plan for, but it just went so well.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgTWINS,  from pg. 1The twins were reunited for the first time since separation in JunePRINCETON REVIEW’S “LOTS 
OF BEER” RANKINGS FOR 2017:  
1. University of Wisconsin-
Madison
2. University of Dayton
3. Bates College
4. Beloit College 
5. Lehigh University
6. UF
Grace King / Alligator Staff 
A UF Health Shands Hospital doctor shows a 3-D printed model of 
the twins’ heart that helped them see if separation was possible. 
4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Two-year-old Chloe Spaulding crouches on Wednesday afternoon, surrounded by 20 
sandbags half her height. Her mother, Jessica Spaulding, ﬁ  lled bags to help protect her apartment from ﬂ  ooding Tropical Storm Hermine may cause in coming days.ers will be advised of canceled service 
through the TransLoc Rider app, on so-cial media and on the RTS website.
“At that point we would assume that 
the university would also be closing,” 
Skinner said.
UF ﬁ  nance freshman Sarah Abraham 
lives off campus and travels to campus 
by bus via route 125.
“I personally don’t think the classes 
are going to be canceled,” Abraham, 18, 
said. 
But she said she still went to Publix 
to stock up on water and food.
Just off U.S. Highway 441, families 
shoveled sand into black bags and load-
ed them into their cars. If Hermine is as strong as meteorologists predict, ﬂ  ood-ing may become a problem, they said.
Chloe Spaulding, 2, held her mom’s 
hand Wednesday afternoon, surround-ed by 20 sandbags half her height.
Her mom, 25-year-old Jessica Spauld-
ing, ﬁ  lled multiple bags with sand at the designated ﬁ  lling area at 11855 NW U.S. Highway 441. 
Jessica Spaulding said she would 
bring them back to their ﬁ  rst-ﬂ  oor apart-ment near UF Health Shands Hospital. The complex has a history of ﬂ  ooding, she said.
Originally from Idaho, Jessica 
Spaulding said Hermine would be her ﬁ  rst major storm.
Across the mound, 68-year-old Russ 
Walker, who lives on Turkey Creek Golf and Country Club, hauled 20 sandbags into his Ford F-150.
Walker said he and his wife Carol 
will line up the bags to protect their 
home from ﬂ  ooding. 
After hearing Hermine may bring 
heavy rainfall, he said he ﬁ  gured it 
would be necessary.  
“Everyone’s concerned,” he said.HERMINE,  from pg. 1Families prepared sandbagsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF College of Veterinary Medi-
cine professor is traveling across 
Latin America to create a universal standard for vaccinating animals. 
Cynda Crawford, a faculty mem-
ber of Maddie’s Shelter Medicine 
Program in the college, is one of  
four researchers heading the Vac-
cinations Guideline Group. The researchers plan to create a global standard for vaccination guidelines, 
including what vaccinations are 
needed for animals based on their 
health, Crawford said. 
She wants to unify veterinary 
practices through the three-year project, she said. 
Crawford said the research-
ers chose Latin America because they’ve already done studies in North America, Europe and Asia. Latin America faces many of the 
same problems as Asia, including 
similar animal diseases and the 
amount of resources available.
“It is very important to recognize 
culture and to factor that into mak-ing available any resources or rec-
ommendations,” Crawford said. “It 
cannot be ignored.”
The research team will assess 
the conditions and needs of differ-ent areas while in Latin America, 
including infectious diseases in the 
region, current vaccination practic-es, regulatory challenges unique to the areas and the level of veterinary 
education, Crawford said. 
With this in-
formation com-
piled, the team 
members will 
create a paper 
outlining recom-
mended vacci-nation practices, she said. Results 
and suggestions are tailored to each 
area.
The Latin American region spe-
cifically sees high cases of Lepto-
spirosis, a potentially fatal bacterial infection, she said.
The Vaccinations Guideline 
Group is the only group undertak-ing this effort, Crawford said. After the group finishes in Latin America in 2019, it will go to Eastern Europe.
Crawford said her interest in 
the international veterinary com-
munity developed over time. She 
said she hopes to help veterinar-ians in other countries learn more about new methods for obtaining 
resources that are used to keep ani-
mals healthy.
“I think there’s a lot of work and 
need and focus for international vet-
erinary medicine,” Crawford said. 
Crawford, who has more than 20 
years of expertise, said she brings 
knowledge of small animal immu-
nology and infectious diseases to the team.
Crawford is credited with dis-
covering the canine influenza vi-
rus, commonly known as dog flu, 
in 2004. This breakthrough allowed for the development of vaccinations and other treatments. 
Julie Levy, a member of the col-
lege’s program and a longtime col-
league of Crawford, said she thinks 
Crawford will help the researchers come up with a way to meet the needs of the vets and the animals.
“Dr. Crawford is relentless in 
solving medical issues, especially infectious diseases problems for animals in shelters,” she said.
UF professor traveling to help with animal vaccines 
Crawford
THE TEAM’S TRAVELS:
• Aug. 7 to Aug. 12: Argentina
• 2017: Brazil (Sao Paulo and 
Rio de Janeiro) and Colombia 
• 2018: MexicoShe’s going to Latin AmericaThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnHermine, Louisiana, 
rising sea levels: a 
ticking time bomb
Did any of you Gators go surﬁ  ng over the summer? Well, 
bust those boards back out and buy an extra pair of swimming trunks, because we’re about to get some se-rious rain over the next couple of days. Tropical Storm Hermine is set to hit the Big Bend area (aka armpit) of 
our not-so-Sunshine State today at about 1 p.m.
This is deeply concerning for two reasons: One, if Hermine 
attains hurricane strength, it’ll be the ﬁ  rst one we’ve had in 11 years — since most of us were in elementary or early middle school. Two, who on earth came up with the name Hermine? All you had to do was add an “o” to make it “Hermione.” May-be then we could just ﬂ  y Emma Watson down to the panhandle and cast away the storm with a spell. Problem solved. But alas, here we are — an impending storm and no Emma Watson.
We should consider ourselves lucky, though. Our storm 
won’t be nearly as bad as what Louisiana has endured in recent weeks. Almost three weeks ago, intense rains and ﬂ  ooding dev-astated certain towns in Louisiana, amounting to what the Red Cross said is the worst natural disaster since Hurricane Sandy. Thirteen people dead, at least 40,000 homes destroyed, $205 million in ﬁ  nancial support to ﬂ  ood survivors from the Federal Emergency Management Agency: This is serious.
Why should we care about what happens in Louisiana, you 
may ask? Well, ﬁ  rst off, it’s only a 10-hour drive away. If what-ever deity you pray to — God, Allah, Morgan Freeman, Queen Bey (we don’t judge) — decided to aim those ﬂ  oods further south, we’d be the ones in deep water right now. Second, Bill Nye. The science superstar appeared on CNN on Aug. 23 to discuss Louisiana and said, “This is a result of climate change. It’s only going to get worse.”
And if Bill Nye isn’t good enough for you, then take NASA’s 
word for it. Global temperatures are rising in ways we haven’t 
seen in 1,000 years, NASA ofﬁ  cials have said. And with ris-
ing temperatures come rising sea levels, which means very bad news for Florida.
So, what can we do? If you’re particularly bold, or if you just 
really don’t like the classes you got stuck with after the drop/add period, you could make the trip out to Louisiana and help at the various relief sites. Or, for a more practical approach, you could call our very own Florida representatives and voice your concern over Florida’s lack of preparation given the rise of sea 
levels and the very real dangers that could result.
Does calling representatives’ ofﬁ  ces actually work? If one or 
two of you do it, then probably not. But, if each of you reading 
this paper right now took ﬁ  ve minutes to call Marco Rubio’s of-ﬁ  ce, for instance, and speak with his staff members, then may-be all of you together could actually make some waves. And honestly, given how much water Rubio drinks in the middle of his speeches, he’d probably appreciate us making a splash.
The point is: Do something, anything. For years on end far 
too many of us, both citizens and policymakers alike, have looked at climate change and said, “Eh — I’m sure Al Gore’s got that taken care of.” But he doesn’t. Al Gore doesn’t have a lot of things taken care of.
That’s why it’s up to you to make these things happen. 
And if we don’t act? Well, let’s just hope other states decide to 
care about us when we start having massive ﬂ  oods. Or maybe one-way ﬂ  ights to Canada come at a cheap rate? (Spoiler: they don’t).
The letdown of next time: not dwelling on the past
When I was very young, my father’s family (and by that I mean my im-mediate family, my grandparents, my aunt’s family and my father’s uncles’ families — a good chunk of 
my paternal side) would spend a few weeks in Montenegro, in the house where my grand-father and his brothers grew up. The house was built on a hill, and the lower level no lon-ger belonged to our family. The other two lev-els and the guest house were divided among my grandfather and his two brothers.
Our level, at its fullest, would house me, my grand-
parents, my parents, my aunt and uncle, my three cous-
ins and my siblings. It also happened to be the level 
with the stench of mothballs and no air conditioning. The guest house was for the older great-uncle, who had the smallest family. It was quiet there. The top level housed the younger great-uncle, his wife, his two 
daughters and their boyfriends.
That was the level my cousins and I wanted to be on. 
There was air conditioning and a ﬂ  at-screen television.
During those summers, the younger great-uncle 
would rent a yacht, and after breakfast we’d head down 
to the docks. My cousins, siblings and I would bring our inﬂ  atable tubes and then squirm as our parents tried to lather us with sunscreen. When we got to the boat, we’d instantly set our towels out on the bow, which 
was the most fun place to be when the boat got to full 
speed. We have a picture, six of us on the front of this big yacht.
When we parted ways for the summer, we always 
made promises and ideas on what to do next time. Next time, we’d try to water ski. Next time, we’d go down to the beach by ourselves. Next time, we’d try jumping off the top of the boat.
It’s funny, in retrospect. I realize just how lucky I was as a kid to even have these getaways, be-cause there was no way my family could’ve afforded them. I had no idea what a big deal 
that was. I thought that all little kids went to 
Europe for the summer and played on speed-boats. During the school year, I’d think to my-self, “Next time, this is what I’m going to do.”
Until, of course, there was no next time. 
There will never be a next time.
We stopped going to that house when I 
was 10. We still went to Europe to visit my 
cousins, but we haven’t seen the younger great-uncle’s 
family in a decade. He has since passed away. When I 
was 17, I spent two weeks with my cousins in Zagreb, Croatia, and once again, we made grand plans about next time. Next time, we’ll take a day trip. Next time, 
we’re going to go to this club. But there was no next 
time. Not the same way, at least. The next time I saw them was for only three days.
I used to cling onto these “next times.” I’d do my 
best to plan them out, to try to keep the world exactly 
as it had been. I did not want change. I wanted another 
chance to sit at the bow of the yacht, another night out with my cousins. It was never enough.
I look back on those months now, not sad that I 
won’t have a next time, but just thankful I even got those few times. It’s a bittersweet part of growing up. You realize things change more quickly and drastically than you could ever expect. You realize there’s no use in holding onto things that are meant for the past. In-
stead, you should let them go and just appreciate the 
fact you had a chance to hold them in the ﬁ  rst place.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and computer 
science senior who isn’t quite ready to not have a next 
time on UF’s campus. Her column appears on Thurs-
days.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
How does one become Tony Stark?
This is the topic of many online 
discussions and blogs and the ques-
tion many future engineers ponder 
when deciding which degree to 
pursue. They have their eyes set on becom-ing rich inventors who create the newest 
technology in their basements. The problem 
is that Tony Stark is a ﬁ  ctional character. So, what’s the next best thing? Elon Musk.
Musk is the founder of Tesla Motors and 
SpaceX, two companies many engineering 
students seem to aspire to work for in the 
future. They see Musk as a paragon for what is possible with an engineering degree and set their mark to reach what he has done. 
I mean, who wouldn’t want to invent new 
products that change the world and make millions of dollars in the process? If engi-neering students are reaching for such high goals, they should know a little more about 
Musk and what it means to work for him.According to a 2016 PayScale 
survey, jobs at Tesla or SpaceX 
rank as the most stressful and 
lowest paying jobs, but also the 
most meaningful, among tech ﬁ  rms. In fact, Ashlee Vance’s biography of Musk spends a 
great deal of time explaining the 
trade-offs of working for Tesla or SpaceX. In the biography, Vance explains although Musk’s companies build innovative products that are chang-
ing the world, working for these companies 
often comes with personal sacriﬁ  ces. Stress from jobs at Tesla and SpaceX not only come from lack of sleep and the metal de-
mand of the job, but also from working for 
Musk himself. Musk is known to ﬁ  re even his closest and most dedicated employees on a whim and spit coffee across the room if it’s too cold for his taste. He even ripped 
into one of his head engineers for missing a meeting to witness the birth of 
his child.
Another misconception is that 
scientists or engineers can still build transformative projects by locking themselves in a basement. As argued in Michael Hiltzik’s 
book “Big Science,” the era in 
which science was done individu-ally from start to ﬁ  nish ended after 
the military-industrial complex of the Eisen-hower era. Now, large teams work together 
to build innovative products, including the 
rockets and cars built at SpaceX and Tesla, respectively.
In fact, engineers who work at Tesla 
might have a job centered on designing something as minute as the handle of a car door. Sure, Tesla’s door handles are cool, but do they amount to the same signiﬁ  cance as many expect a “dream” job at Tesla to 
be? Not really.A considerable amount of engineering 
students place jobs at companies like Tesla 
and SpaceX as the highest calling for some-
one with an engineering degree. And that’s 
ﬁ  ne, just as long as they know that, like everything else, working at companies like Tesla or SpaceX have both big perks and big 
drawbacks.
Unless there is an engineering student 
out there who is also from South Africa, 
made his or her own computer game as a child and has a business and physics degree 
from the University of Pennsylvania, he or 
she isn’t even halfway there to becoming the next Elon Musk. But engineers shouldn’t seek to emulate him. Striving for a goal al-
ready achieved by someone else is neither 
innovative nor original. More importantly, it’s not engineering.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental 
engineering sophomore. His column appears 
on Thursdays.
Dear engineers: Don’t fall for the Elon Musk facade, try something newColumn
America is experiencing racial ten-
sion. It’s no secret.
Turn on the news, and you will 
be bombarded: Black Lives Mat-ter. Blue Lives Matter. All Lives 
Matter. In an age of around-the-clock news, it can be suffocating.
Last week, the tension spilled into the 
NFL.
Colin Kaepernick, the former starting 
quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, chose not to stand for the singing of the national anthem before Friday’s preseason game against the Green Bay Packers.
“I am not going to stand up to show 
pride in a flag for a country that oppress-es black people and people of color,” he said in a postgame interview. “To me, this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.”
Predictably, Kaepernick’s controversial 
actions and comments sent the internet into a frenzy. 
Almost immediately, people 
flew to opposite ends of the spectrum to either passionately defend or incinerate him, leav-ing little room for gray area and nuance.
But as is often the case, this 
issue is not cut and dry. It en-tails deeper inquiry.
First, it is important to make something 
clear: As an American, Colin Kaepernick absolutely has the right to choose not to stand for the national anthem if he doesn’t want to. 
Above all, what makes this country 
special is the deliberate protection of its citizens’ ability to have dissenting opin-ions. Without discourse, society remains stagnant. Progress is prohibited.
Kaepernick perceives injustice and is 
willing to say it. I commend him for that.
Many public figures, especially ath-
letes, shy away from standing up for their beliefs in fear of public backlash and fi-nancial ramifications, which can include potentially losing en-dorsements. 
But professional athletes are 
gifted a tremendous platform and wield considerable influ-ence. If they feel compelled to voice their opinions, I respect and encourage that.
Yet, even taking all that into 
consideration, I strongly disagree with Kaepernick’s decision to sit during the na-tional anthem.
Is this country perfect? No. Certainly 
not. America has come a long way, but there is still considerable room for im-provement. And while we are given the right to free speech in the First Amend-ment, it has come at a significant cost.
Kaepernick only has the liberty to play 
football because hundreds of thousands of people have lost their lives protecting this country. Millions more have served. Blood has been spilled to protect our free-dom so I can write this column and you can read it. That sacrifice is something we frequently take for granted, myself in-cluded.
Not standing for the national anthem 
is a blatant sign of disrespect to those men, women and their families. Most of them we will never know; their stories have been lost with the inevitable passing of time. But they were real people. They were fathers, brothers and husbands; mothers, sisters and wives. Yet, many are now only a number in a history textbook.
That is why I will stand, with my hand 
over my heart, whenever I hear the na-tional anthem. It’s a small token of grati-tude to the people who died, who I will never get the chance to thank in person.
I understand where Kaepernick is com-
ing from. The current racial strife in this country is serious and cannot be ignored. But in a time when America is desperate for unity, Kaepernick failed to stand up as a leader.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
The right to sit during the national anthem doesn't mean you should Column
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.org
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Garage-rock band playing Atlantic
A Giant Dog show on Tuesday, pg. 10  New show debuting at Hippodrome
“Stage Kiss” opens Friday, pg. 9By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville-native band 
Less Than Jake will headline the ﬁ  fth annual Wake N Bake festival at High Dive Friday and Saturday. 
The punk rock, ska band is 
named after drummer Vinnie Fio-rello’s childhood pet — an English Bulldog named Jake.  
Fiorello said Jake was treated 
better than anyone else in his home.
“My parents would cook spe-
ciﬁ  c food for Jake and have a spe-
ciﬁ  c spot on the couch for him,” he 
said. 
As a result, everything else be-
came “less than Jake.”
The band consists of members 
JR Wasilewski on saxophone, Buddy Schaub on trombone, Roger Lima on vocals, guitar and bass and Chris DeMakes on vocals and 
guitar.
Having been together for more 
than 20 years, Less Than Jake is 
currently with Fat Wreck Chords, a punk-rock label based out of North-ern California, Fiorello said.
The band’s sound is a “head-space” for fast, melodic punk rock with inﬂ  uences of reggae and ska music, he said. Less Than Jake 
spends time crafting music that 
sometimes deals with serious top-
ics, but while playing live, the band 
has a “no holds barred” attitude. 
The Wake N Bake festival was 
started by Less Than Jake ﬁ  ve years ago after the band wanted 
to make more time to play in its 
hometown. The name Wake N Bake, an old stoner’s term, came 
from bass player Roger Lima.  
“Wake N Bake weekend is 
to celebrate everything that is 
Gainesville,” Fiorello said. 
Having the festival at the High 
Dive made sense for Less Than 
Jake because the High Dive, then 
called The Covered Dish, was one of the ﬁ  rst places in Gainesville that gave Less Than Jake a chance 
to open up for a bigger band.  
“Without live music and cul-
ture, Gainesville is just a bunch of 
soulless buildings,” said Pat Lav-ery, the promoter and events man-ager for the High Dive. 
He said Less Than Jake, one of 
the most successful bands to ever come out of Gainesville, gives back to the community unlike many of the other bands from the city.   
Last year marked the ﬁ  rst time 
Less Than Jake included a charity drive into the festival. Just like last 
year, the band is asking festival-
goers to bring a few pet supplies to donate to the St. Francis Pet Care 
Clinic this year.
The band chose this particular 
charity because of the connection 
to Fiorello’s dog, Lavery said.
For the last ﬁ  ve years, the band 
wanted to keep Wake N Bake in the same venue. Next year, however, Less Than Jake is hoping to grow the festival a bit more, which will 
include moving to a different loca-
tion. 
Fiorello said plans will be made 
after this year’s festival. 
Also playing the festival are 
Florida bands Morning Fatty, Kash’d Out, Dr/veaway, The Bus-
drivers and Bothering Dennis. The 
only band playing that is not from Florida is Peelander-Z, a band from 
New York. Fiorello said the key to the 
band’s long-lasting success is that 
it doesn’t take for granted the inter-
actions with its fans. 
“You’re always striving for that 
perfect chemical reaction between 
what you love to do and what peo-ple are giving back to you…for do-
ing what you love,” he said.  
Advance tickets are $15 on tick-
etﬂ  y.com or $18 purchased the day 
of the show, Lavery said. The patio opens at 6 p.m., and doors open at 
8 p.m.
Wake N Bake festival highlights local rock bands
MUSIC
By Rebecca Santana
Avenue Writer 
Five music acts, 50 vendors 
and lots of Gainesville locals will 
celebrate Labor Day at Bo Diddley Community Plaza for the ﬁ  fth an-nual Labor Daze Fest this week-
end. 
The free festival, which will 
be held Sunday from 4 p.m. to 
10 p.m., has quickly become a Gainesville tradition, with the fo-cus of “by locals, for locals, about 
locals,” according to the event’s 
ﬂ  ier.
Each year, those who attend 
the festival can participate in the dollar rafﬂ  e. The prizes are pro-vided by the vendors, and the winners receive various items, such as food, jewelry and tick-ets to various events, like an up-
coming show at the Hippodrome State Theatre, said Trisha Ingle, a 
founder and organizer of the fes-
tival.
This year, the event will give 
“Power to the People” to one raf-
ﬂ  e ticket holder. According to the Labor Daze Fest Facebook page, the winner will have his or her power bill paid for by the festival, and Mayor Lauren Poe will pres-ent the prize.
The festival’s musical lineup includes a variety of bands unique to Gainesville, helping aspiring 
and achieved musicians present 
their talent. The lineup includes Hard Luck Society, Maca Reggae Samba, Mama Trish vs Godzilla!, Stereo Vud and The Duppies. 
The musical styles range from 
Latin to hard rock, so there’s a little something for everyone. 
The event will also feature a 
rock-climbing wall and a face-painting station through Jumping 4 Joy, a party-equipment rental 
company and a sponsor of the 
festival. There will also be an interview-clothing drive that pro-vides people with vouchers to ob-tain appropriate interview attire.
Ingle said the event allows 
attendees to get involved in the Gainesville scene.
“It’s the most fun you can 
have for free,” she said. 
 Labor Daze Fest celebrates with free music, vendorsCourtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville natives Less Than Jake will play both nights of the Wake N Bake festival, alongside other 
popular local bands like Morning Fatty and Kash’d Out. Advance tickets are $15 or $18 at the door. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Less Than Jake started the rock festival ﬁ  ve years ago as a way to celebrate its Gainesville roots after international success. The band has played together for more than 20 years. 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
“Stage Kiss,” a new romantic 
comedy by Sarah Ruhl, will make 
its debut Friday night at the Hip-podrome State Theatre. The show is one in a series of collaborations 
between the UF School of Theatre + 
Dance and the Hippodrome.
“This is our fourth co-produc-
tion with the School of Theatre + Dance,” said Sarah Darden, the mar-keting director at the Hippodrome. “We have a great relationship with them. Their team and our team col-laborate to try to ﬁ  nd the perfect 
play… so a lot of the students can 
be involved and some of our profes-sional Hippodrome actors can be involved.”
“Stage Kiss” follows the lives of 
two ex-lovers, He (David Patrick Ford) and She (Stephanie Lynge), as they reunite, starring as romantic leads in a play within the play. The plot chronicles the pair’s attempt to rekindle their past love affair, as well as the repercussions that ensue from 
their reunion.
“It is an examination of love, 
our mind, thinking of the past, re-
gret and growing up,” said Brittney Caldwell, a second-year UF Masters of Fine Arts candidate and a “Stage Kiss” cast member.
The play opens Friday night, 
but “Stage Kiss” has been a year in 
the making, with choosing a script, 
reviewing it, acquiring rights and choosing a director taking months of planning. 
Actual rehearsals took place just 
three weeks before opening night, Darden said.
With such a short amount of time 
for the cast to rehearse together, the 
chemistry among members must 
progress quickly, especially when a high level of intimacy is in demand; the show features more than 40 kiss-es, Darden said.“Almost everybody kisses ev-
erybody in the show, so you really need to be comfortable with your 
castmates,” said Caldwell, who 
plays the characters of Laurie and Millicent on stage. “I think it’s a re-ally good combination of actors and really good attitudes that blend well together.”
Darden promises a night of fun 
for those who come out this week-end to see the show. 
“You’re going to laugh. You’re 
going to have some really heart-felt, warm moments,” said Darden. “Theatre is all about trying some-thing new, and having a great night that for two hours you get transport-ed into another world.”
“Stage Kiss” will run from Fri-
day to Sept. 25. Tickets can be pur-
chased online at thehipp.org, at the 
Hippodrome’s box ofﬁ  ce or over the phone. Student tickets are $15 with valid student IDs. Regular prices vary by performance night.
New show coming to Hippodrome
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF School of Theatre + Dance has teamed up with the Hippodrome for the show “Stage Kiss. ”
By Lindsey Crown
Avenue Writer
The return of college foot-
ball isn’t the only event worth 
celebrating this weekend in Gainesville: it’s also Beyoncé’s 35th birthday. 
To celebrate the iconic singer, 
who is fresh off of blowing ev-eryone’s minds at the MTV Vid-eo Music Awards, the Atlantic is throwing a birthday bash Sat-urday in her honor with its Be-yoncé Music Video Dance Party. 
Doors open at 10 p.m. for the 
festivities, and DJ P-Funk will be playing all the hottest Beyoncé beats and related artists while mixing in the videos to each track, said Tom Rankine, the promoter for the Atlantic.  
A giant projection screen on 
the dance ﬂ  oor and a ﬂ  at-screen TV on the bar will also be show-ing Queen Bey’s hit music videos throughout the night. In addition to usual drink specials, there will be a few themed shots and mixed drinks to bring in Bey Day.
The Atlantic is expecting a 
few hundred people throughout the duration of the night, with more than 400 people “interest-ed” and more than 200 people “going” to the event on Face-book, as of press time.
Regional Beyhive representa-
tive Tyler Francischine said to prepare for an ecstatic experi-
ence.
“So often, going out to a 
dance night at a club means 
slithering through a crowd to 
avoid unwanted grazes, bopping 
your head because the music was 
too boring to move your hips,” 
Francischine said. “This night is 
about celebrating the birthday of 
an icon for female independence, 
resilience and beauty, inside and 
out. And her songs make them 
hips swing.”
Mimi Zarate, an administra-
tive assistant for UF Health, has 
hours of rigorous karate training 
on Friday and Saturday. 
“If I can still walk, let alone 
dance, I’ll be there,” Zarate said.
Music will be playing until 
just before the venue closes at 2 a.m. 
The Atlantic has hosted a 
number of themed dance par-
ties in the past, including a re-
cent Prince tribute dance party, 
and the venue is looking to host 
a “Stranger Things” dance party 
in the coming month. The club 
also hosts a monthly rotation of 
dance parties with themes like 
’80s, ’90s, Goth and Motown 
nights.  
Anyone over 18 is invited to 
the Beyoncé event, with a $3 
cover for those 21 and over and 
$5 for those under 21.  The Atlantic to host 
Beyoncé dance party
MUSIC
“This night is about celebrating 
the birthday of an icon for 
female indepedence, resiliance 
and beauty.”
Tyler Francischine
Regional Beyhive rep.10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
A Giant Dog, a garage-rock 
band from Austin, Texas, will per-
form at the Atlantic in downtown Gainesville on Tuesday. This is the band’s only Florida show before its 
American tour, where the group will 
soon join popular rock band Titus Andronicus.
Within the last few years, A Gi-
ant Dog has independently released several albums on its Bandcamp page. The band has recently found more mainstream success with its 2016 release, “Pile.”
While A Giant Dog is usually put 
under the category of “garage-rock,” its music and live performances showcase more of a manic, punk-style: Think The Stooges in terms of energy and instrumentation. Guitarist Andrew Cashen writes bluesy, off-kilter riffs that channel the low-register noodling of Lou 
Reed on tracks like “Sex & Drugs.” 
His hyperactive playing on “Sleep When Dead” also feels reminiscent of Tony Iommi on Black Sabbath’s “Paranoid.” 
A Giant Dog’s sound is made 
whole by vocalist Sabrina Ellis. This a frontwoman who performs with the vigor, fashion and sexual pro-
miscuity of Peaches. She also has a 
croon similar to that of Amy Wine-house. Still, there’s something about A 
Giant Dog that can’t simply be char-acterized by the inﬂ  uence the band 
takes from other acts. Ellis says 
she draws inspiration from Roman mythology, Afro-Haitian dance and even the French ballet, “The Rite of Spring.”
“When performing, I often think 
about the ‘Rite of Spring,’ which is a ballet about this woman who has to dance herself to death,” Ellis said. 
“People should expect that when 
they see us play live — ‘The Rite of Spring,’ but in punk-rock form.” 
A Giant Dog’s “Pile” was the 
band’s major label debut. It was re-leased this year through Merge Re-cords, a well-respected indie label that has worked with several leg-endary acts, like Neutral Milk Hotel, 
The Magnetic Fields and The Moun-
tain Goats, since the label started in 1989. 
“Merge showed slight interest in 
us a couple years of ago, and then we had to spend some time proving ourselves, going on tour all the time and basically showing them that we could do it without them,” Cashen 
said. “They wanted to know that we 
were active and motivated.” 
A Giant Dog is certainly staying 
active and motivated. The group will be touring through November, and even though it just released “Pile” this year, the band has al-ready recorded most of its upcoming 2017 release. 
“You might have been able to get 
away with releasing an album every 
three years in the ’90s, but the mu-
sic industry is a lot more competi-tive these days,” Cashen said. “You have to write at least an album a year just to stay relevant.” 
The band’s show at the Atlantic 
starts at 9 p.m., with local bands Heat Rash and Curleys opening the concert. Tickets are $10 at the door or can be bought in advance for $8 
at Arrow’s Aim Records and Hear 
Again Records. 
A Giant Dog to rock the Atlantic for only Florida show
Courtesy to the Alligator
A Giant Dog will perform at the Atlantic on Tuesday for its own tour before joining Titus An-
dronicus for more shows. This will be the T exas  garage-rock band ‘s only Florida show. 
MUSIC
By Brian Schwartz
Avenue Writer
This Saturday, the Hippodrome State 
Theatre is holding a test screening of an independent documentary from local ﬁ  lm production company Inner Voice Produc-tions. And what better place to showcase a local independent ﬁ  lm than a theater at the cultural heart of Gainesville recog-nized for its art house releases?
The ﬁ  lm, called “Acharya,” is about 
the 70-year-old Indian swami who start-ed the Hare Krishna movement while spreading the practice of Bhakti yoga in 1960s New York City. The documentary is Inner Voice Production’s ﬁ  rst feature-length ﬁ  lm. The company, which is based out of Alachua, Florida, involved profes-sional ﬁ  lmmakers from Los Angeles, Aus-tralia and India. 
Producer Jessica Heinrich ﬁ  nds the 
subject of the documentary to stand out from the many counterculture move-ments of the ’60s. While some sought escapism in resistance to social norms, Bhakti yoga taught self-realization. Hein-rich hopes to uncover universal truths and leave people feeling uplifted with this ﬁ  lm.
The Hippodrome offers ﬁ  lms of all siz-
es to locals, from cult classics like “The Rocky Horror Picture Show,” to world cinema, like last year’s Best Foreign Lan-guage Film Oscar winner, “Son of Saul.” But this documentary demonstrates the next step for what the theater has to offer. 
Because Inner Voice is in the ﬁ  nal 
stages of post-production on its ﬁ  lm, “an important part of the ﬁ  lmmaking process is to gain audience feedback” before en-tering the “ﬁ  ne-cutting stage of the ﬁ  lm,” Heinrich said.
This is a test screening in which lo-
cals, including UF students, are encour-aged to attend and participate by getting a chance to provide their comments and critiques after the ﬁ  lm. The ﬁ  lm is sched-uled for an international theatrical release later in 2017 and should give people more incentive to be a part of something that will grow and develop. 
Heinrich said Inner Voice also plans 
on submitting its documentary to the Sundance and Tribeca ﬁ  lm festivals. 
For those who are followers of Bhakti 
yoga, lovers of documentaries or fre-quenters of Krishna lunch, the ﬁ  lm may be of particular interest, but it is also for those who simply want to learn about a heavily inﬂ  uential spiritual practice. 
Admission is free, and each partici-
pant will be given a free movie ticket to 
any Regal Cinemas theater for participa-
tion.
Registration is required to participate 
in the screening and can be done by call-
ing 352-278-8424 or emailing acharya@
innervoiceproductions.com. The event 
will from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Hipp hosts ﬁ  lm screening  
FILM
 FILM
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer
With the presidential election drawing 
near, “Southside With You” manages to es-cape the sea of Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump yard signs in order to say, “Hey, re-member how likable our current president is?” 
Premiering last weekend, the romantic 
dramedy recounts the fateful tale of a young Barack Obama (Parker Sawyers) attempting to court his future wife and ﬁ  rst lady Michelle (Tika Sumpter). The ﬁ  lm takes us back to 1989, when Barack and Michelle were law-yers working at the same ﬁ  rm. 
Over the course of a single day, Barack 
must persuade stubborn and ambitious Mi-chelle he’s more than just a rough-around-the-edges player. His beat-up car, cigarette smoking and daddy issues don’t really help his cause, but he’s got a few tricks up his sleeve, which involve dragging Michelle to a community meeting where he gives an en-dearing and powerful speech — foreshadow-ing, much? Add in an art exhibit, a movie and some ice cream, and he might just get Mi-chelle to ﬁ  nally admit it’s a date.
It sounds cutesy, and it is. But amidst all 
the ﬂ  uff, there’s still plenty of conﬂ  ict — and maybe too much of it. The start of the cou-ple’s relationship is shaky, but “Southside With You” doesn’t stop there. Both characters are angry: Barack at his late, negligent father and Michelle at the sacriﬁ  ces she must make to succeed. While this does add depth to the characters, their personal arcs get rushed for the sake of the romantic plot, and it all comes 
off as more messy than necessary.
What does make for a nice addition to all 
the romance are the conversations on culture 
and racial issues. Black music, arts and ﬁ  lm 
are spoken about at length. Michelle even 
proclaims how difﬁ  cult the workplace is given 
she’s not only a woman, but also black. The 
conversation isn’t anything revolutionary, 
but it is refreshing, even if ﬁ  rst-time director 
and writer Richard Tanne himself is white. 
The ﬁ  lm overall is well-crafted, but the 
performances are what really shine. In his 
ﬁ  rst leading role, Sawyers gives a very be-
lievable — and thankfully not over-the-top 
— impression of our president, balancing just 
the right amount of charm and gangliness to 
make anyone swoon. Sumter also pulls off 
a nice portrayal of Michelle Obama, nailing her well-known mannerisms and clear way of speaking. Together, the duo create a magnetic 
chemistry. 
The story itself is charming, but at the end, 
it begs one question: Why was this movie 
even made? A lot happens, but it never re-
ally proves its purpose. There’s romance, but 
there’s also long-winded conversations and 
various allusions and random scenes. Not to 
mention, the ﬁ  lm could’ve been about any-
one; focusing on the most powerful couple in 
the U.S. makes it seem like the only goal is 
for the audience to admire the two people on 
screen. 
If that is the case, I guess “Southside With 
You” works.Reviewing ‘Southside With You’BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
1BR in 4BR/4BA furn apt. Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Male student pref. Short term lease option avail. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigish-anyc@yahoo.com   9-2-16-5-1
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-23 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/
BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
9-3-16-29-2
Cute & Clean! Vintage 1BR in quiet NW 
area. Perfect for grad students or profession -
als. Short hop to UF/Downtown $655/mo. Call/Text 352-575-4395 email 806@cozyga -
tor.com      9-1-16-3-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
12-7-16-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
02 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no respon -
sibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investi
-
gate the sincerity of the advertiser be -
fore giving out personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ACROSS
1 Stage segments
5 Apiece
9 Fur fighters,
initially
13 Revealed15 Slushy treat16 Lumberjack17 “Lone Survivor”
actor Hirsch
18 Strike site20 LBJ, for one21 Champs-Élysées
sights
23 Shady garden
denizen
24 Go through again26 Counter
alternatives
27 Strike site30 Signature scent
since 1968
31 Place for an anvil32 Works at Museo
del Prado
36 Sailor’s pronoun
37 Company with a
crocodile logo
41 Pitching stat
42 Banks on some
magazine covers
44 Golfer Woosnam45 Spikes47 Strike site51 Insect that may
live for 17 years
54 Live-in helper55 Psychologist May
56 Date bk. listings
58 Peeples of
“Walker, TexasRanger”
60 Strike site62 Unspoiled spots64 Vikings’ home:
Abbr.
65 Opinion66 Mournful music67 Get too much
sun
68 Hand-me-down69 It’s often spoken
with one hand atthe edge of one’smouth
DOWN
1 Retired2 Resisting being
taken?
3 Academic term4 Poivre’s tablemate5 Statue of Liberty
architect
6 One of 640 in a
square mile
7 Top suits8 Tom’s mate9 Lummox
10 Live and breathe11 Mahler’s last
symphony
12 Fields14 Loudness
measure
19 God with a
hammer
22 Co-star of Burt in
“The Killers”
25 Author Harper
26 D.C. : Metro ::
S.F. : __
27 Nonpareil
28 Téa of “Madam
Secretary”
29 Strasbourg step33 They’re often
found in dens
34 Forest age
indicators
35 “Duck soup!”38 Electronics brand
relaunched in201539 19-time All-Star
Ripken
40 Went by
43 Rock-clinging
mollusk
46 __ carte
48 Have too much,
briefly
49 Took a snooze
50 Inner, as a
feeling
51 Bit of Hansel’s
trail52 Land of 
ancient Asia
Minor
53 Toast-making
sound
56 Cries of
discovery
57 Elbow
59 “I’d hate to break
up __”
61 Good name for a
cook?
63 Guacamole, e.g.
By Al Hollmer and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/01/1609/01/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 1, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
Monopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
Gator Tales Sports Bar & Grill
Hiring Bartenders & Servers. Apply at 5112 NW 34th Blvd, across from the YMCA.     9-2-7-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.PT home/office/apartment cleaner needed 
asap m-sat 8a-5p, &wed 8a-10p. weekly pay, 8.50/hr(making roughly $200-280weekly); must drive own car; be able to pass drug/background check. if interested please call 352-214-0868     9-2-5-14
**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 23 Rides 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's Brooke Austin (left) and 
Kourtney Keegan will participate in the 2016 U.S. Open Women's Doubles Championship after earning a wild card spot. Poll: Who will be Florida football's MVP for 2016?
Eddy Pineiro, Kicker 43.5%  Jarrad Davis, linebacker 21.7%
Jalen T abor, cornerback 4.3%  Dre Massey, wide receiver 4.3%   Other 26.1%By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
You might think an important in-state 
soccer showdown against No. 1 Florida 
State is a game that standout senior for-
ward Savannah Jordan circled on her cal-
endar before the season started.
In her last year at Florida, you might 
think Jordan would be waiting to pounce 
on the opportunity to beat one of her 
team’s biggest rivals in the regular season 
one last time.
You might also think this a game that 
she has at least thought about since Aug. 
19, when the Gators' season ofﬁ  cially 
started.
You would be wrong.“It’s funny, actually. Someone asked 
me who we were playing this weekend a couple weeks ago, and I was like, ‘I’m not sure, I’ll have to look,’” Jordan said. 
“So, for me, I try to take it weekend by 
weekend and focus on who we are play-
ing.”
On Friday, Jordan and the No. 5 Gators 
(3-1-0) travel to Tallahassee to take on the 
Seminoles (4-0-0) in a top-10 matchup. 
It will also mark Florida’s second-con-
secutive Friday night matchup against a 
top-three team.
Since Jordan joined the team in 2013, 
the Gators are 2-1 against the Seminoles. 
Most recently, the Gators won 3-2 at 
home last season. Jordan contributed 
with Florida’s ﬁ  rst goal of the game in the 18th minute.
“We know it’s going to be a tough 
game, big rival for us, so it should be re-
ally exciting,” Jordan said. 
“I think if we get everyone on the same page about that we should be good to go.”
Jordan, who leads the team with four 
goals, has played the most minutes of all her teammates this season with the ex-ception of sophomore goalkeeper Kaylan 
Marckese.
She was also named the Southeastern 
Conference Offensive Player of the Week 
last week, the seventh-such honor of her career.
The three-time All American's skills 
have been consistent throughout her ca-reer, as exempliﬁ  ed by her recent perfor-
mance against No. 15 UCLA.  Jordan leading oﬀ  ense heading into bout with No.1 FSU
SWEET AND BAUER  / OPINION
You’re probably sick of hear-
ing about Colin Kaepernick not standing for the nation-al anthem. 
I know I am. 
You’ve been inundated with ﬁ  re-
balls spewing from the mouths of 
both sides of the issue, at this point 
convinced that Kaepernick is either an ungrateful, pot-stirring rabble-rouser or the greatest athlete-turned-
activist since Muhammad Ali. 
He’s either an idiot who has ab-
solutely no idea what he’s talking 
about and no reason to do what he did or a champion of civil rights 
who’s using his platform to try and 
change the country for the better. A hero or a villain. 
And that’s a problem. 
Because to really learn anything 
substantive from Kaepernick’s ac-
tions requires having a nuanced 
conversation about them. 
To decide whether his actions 
are right or wrong and, more con-
sequentially, whether they should 
be duplicated, requires viewing the 
situation with an open mind and lis-tening — really listening — to what other people have to say. 
Instead, our ﬁ  rst reaction is to 
form an opinion and defend it at all costs. 
And I’m not immune to it. Admit-
tedly, I did the same thing at ﬁ  rst. But it’s something that should be discouraged. 
Instead, it permeates our Face-
book timelines and Twitter feeds.
On one side, there’s Fox Sports’ 
Clay Travis calling Kaepernick a 
“stooge” and viral video sensa-
tion Tomi Lahren picking the low-hanging fruit by reminding us all, as someone often does in these situa-
tions, that if Kaepernick hates the 
situation in America so much, he “could just leave.” 
On the other side, there’s sports 
media personalities like Sports Il-lustrated’s Richard Deitsch and ESPN’s Jemele Hill pointing to the 
hashtag #VeteransForKaepernick as 
evidence that not all veterans view this situation the same way, a dec-laration so obvious that it merits a 
sarcastic #Breaking hashtag to ac-
company it, no matter how heart-Kaepernick shows that in sports and social issues, subtlety doesn't exist Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan ﬁ  ghts for possession of the ball during Florida's 2-1 loss against T exas A&M on Sept. 10, 2015. Jordan leads 
UF, who faces No. 1 FSU on Friday,  with four goals this season. 
UF beat the 'Noles last season
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Jordan supplied some des -
perately needed offense for her 
team by securing the Gators’ 4-3 
victory when she pinballed a 
shot off a UCLA defender for an 
own-goal in the 96th minute of 
the game. 
Head coach Becky Burleigh is 
excited to see how Jordan and her teammates react to playing 
their third-straight road game 
after a weekend spent traveling 
cross-country.
“I think it’s a great opportu
-
nity. This stretch of our schedule 
is one of the most fun parts of 
our schedule because we really 
get to test ourselves against top-
teams,” Burleigh said. 
“(We can) sort of see where 
we can improve and find out our weaknesses.”
Going into the game, Florida 
leads the all-time series 13-10.
But the Gators know that 
Florida State is going to try their best to even that record, starting 
with this weekend.
“I think that we are on a re
-
ally high note right now,” Jor -
dan said. 
“I think were are on a high 
note going into this weekend.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg14UF is 13- 
10 against Florida State
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Running back Jordan Scarlett participates in a drill during Fall practice at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. Scarlett is one of 
five running backs listed on Florida's depth chart ahead of its season opener against Massachusetts on Saturday. 
FRIDAY
• Cross Country @ Covered Bridge Open (5 p.m.)
• Soccer @ Florida State (7 p.m. on ACC Network Extra)
SATURDAY
• Volleyball @ 2016 Spartan Invita -
tional 
• Football vs. Massachusetts (7:30 p.m. on SEC Network)
SUNDAY
• Soccer @ Oklahoma State (1 p.m.)
• Volleyball @ Michigan State (3:30 p.m.)THIS WEEKEND 
IN UF SPORTSTHE ASSOCIATED PRESS
San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sits on the sideline during a game against the Atlanta Falcons on Nov. 8, 2015. warming some of the Tweets are. 
Point being, it’s just so easy to look at Kaepe -
rnick’s actions, make up your mind and tune out 
anyone saying anything that challenges you. Psy -
chology calls it confirmation bias. 
But when we do that, we learn nothing.“People don’t realize what’s really going on 
in this country,” Kaepernick said after the game when asked why he did it. 
“There are a lot things that are going on that are 
unjust. People aren’t being held accountable for. 
And that’s something that needs to change.”
I have very little experience with injustice in my 
personal life, to be honest.
However, just like anyone with a television or 
on social media, I’m constantly exposed to injus
-
tices and plights faced by others, usually minori -
ties. 
There’s no doubt they exist. And they’re issues 
worth talking about. 
Most people would probably agree with that, 
but some will still point to the way he tried to get 
that message across as the problem. 
As one of my colleagues wrote in a separate col -
umn on Wednesday, “It’s a personal choice. But you should choose to show respect.”
Unchecked reverence for the flag is also an is
-
sue worth talking about. 
But instead of really discussing these subjects, 
our “talking” is relegated to picking sides and de -
fending our opinions to the point where it’s as though the possibility of changing our minds is equal to death itself. 
So yeah, I’m sick of hearing the same Kaeper
-
nick talking points over and over again from peo -
ple unwilling to try to see the other side. 
But it really shouldn’t be that way. We can disagree, sure. I have my opinion on 
what Kaepernick did, and it may be different from yours. 
But that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t at least try 
to understand each other. 
Ethan Bauer is the assistant sports editor. Con-
tact him at ebauer@alligator.org and follow him on 
Twitter @ebaueri.COLUMN,  from pg 1416   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2016
1
1312111098765432
  
   
  
   
  
 NNW 3rd St
SE 1st St
NE 3rd StSW 3rd StSW 2nd Ave
SW 5th AveSE 1st Ave
SW 1st Ave
Liquid
GingerManuel’s 
Vintage 
Room
Hippodrome
SUN
CENTERSE 2nd Ave
SE 2nd PlNW 2nd St SW 2nd St
SW 1st St
S Main St N Main St
E University Ave
Gator
Baked
