We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 74 TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
Hargreaves struggles against 
Michigan, readies for NFL draft
He is expected to be a ﬁ  rst-round pick, pg. 23
SFC reﬂ  ects on past tragedies during convocation
SFC addresses future of campus safety, pg. 5
McKnight Brain Insitute names new interim director
He will be paid $300,000, pg. 10Want to work for us?
Come by our open house Friday from noon 
to 5 p.m. We’re looking for contributing writers, photographers and copy editors.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
NEW YEAR, NEW REITZ
Pictured is the facade of the newly constructed portion of the Reitz Union on Monday afternoon. Por-
tions of the expansion, which cost about $75 million, are still under construction. The expanded area is expected to open fully around mid-January.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
Students will no longer be able to use 
or store electronic skateboards in campus 
housing.
Students living on campus received an 
email Dec. 18 saying the boards could no 
longer be stored in residence halls starting in the Spring. The skateboards present a 
potential fire hazard, Sharon Blansett, the assistant to the associate vice president for student affairs, wrote in an email.
The ban starts immediately and will be 
in effect until industry safety standards are developed, she said.
“Students will be asked to remove the 
devices from their rooms,” she said. “If students are not in compliance with the new policy, additional steps through the student conduct process may be imple-mented.”
Neena Schueller, a UF business junior, 
said she thinks the ban won’t be effec-tive.
“It’s kind of surprising because I feel 
like people are going to keep them in the dorms anyway,” the 20-year-old said. “If you own a several-hundred-dollar board, you’re not going to ditch it.”
Schueller, a member of the Gator 
Longboarding club, said although no one in the club has a Hoverboard, she has fre-quently seen them on campus.
“Probably whoever made that rule 
thinks they’re dangerous, too,” she said. “Once you understand how (the skate-board) works you’re completely in con-trol.”
Schueller said she wasn’t aware of 
electronic skateboards causing fires, but she knows it’s possible.
“I definitely understand their con-
cern,” she said. “I know there was a fire in Keys a few months ago.” Electronic skateboards banned in residence halls
IT WAS AN AVERAGE 2.5 
PERCENT RAISE.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
Graduate Assistants United will be getting 
their salary raise after months of negotiations 
with UF.
The agreement went into effect Friday, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. Graduate assistants will get a $430 raise, plus $50 in fee reliefs. This is a 2.5 percent average increase 
in their salaries.
Sikes said this is the maximum raise grad-
uate assistants will receive, but it will be up 
to supervisors of graduate assistants to de-cide how much they will get.
The money for the raises came from state 
performance funding, which the state gives to high-performing universities, Sikes said.“It’s important that we have competitive 
salaries,” she said. “We want the best stu-dents and faculty.”
Ioannis Ziogas, the bargaining chair for 
GAU, said he was happy with the results of negotiations.
“We took this deal, and we’re pretty sat-
isﬁ  ed given the context,” said Ziogas, a UF 
political science doctoral student.
One of GAU’s main goals was to mini-
mize the impact of fees graduate assistants must pay, he said. Some complete research 
or teach instead of taking classes, but they still have to pay the fees, the 35-year-old said. The fee is about $1,400 for two semesters.Graduate assistants reach agreement on salary raise 
SEE GAU,  PAGE 4CAMPUS
Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Gator fans will need to shell 
out more money for next season’s 
football games.
The University Athletic As-
sociation emailed students Dec. 
16 and notiﬁ  ed them that next 
season’s football tickets, which go on sale in April, will increase in price to $140 from last year’s $105. Season tickets for boosters, who contribute money to UF’s football program, will also in-crease in price from $300 to $330.
This is the ﬁ  rst time the UAA 
has changed ticket prices since 2011, said Dan Apple, a UAA assistant director of communica-tions for football. The UAA ex-pects to add $1.4 million from the increase in booster’s season tickets and $647,000 from the in-creased cost of student tickets, he said.
The UAA board of directors 
approved raising ticket prices be-cause they didn’t expect to have enough money to cover the ex-
penses of UF’s athletic pro-
grams in 2016, 
Apple said. 
“This is one 
of the ways we could make revenue for 2016,” he said. 
Rahul Ben-
da, a UF chemical engineering 
sophomore, had mixed feelings 
about the increase.
“I see that it’s going to be more 
difﬁ  cult to accommodate students that can’t pay higher prices,” the 19-year-old said. “However, I don’t think we have the biggest grounds to complain because we have a fair opportunity to buy de-
cently priced tickets.”  UAA raises student 
football ticket pricesThe ban starts immediately
Apple
“It’s important that we have competitive 
salaries. W e want the best students and 
faculty.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
View Personal Collections at 
Collectors Day Jan. 9
Celebrate the Florida Museum of 
Natural History’s 37th Collectors 
Day on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free, popular event has at-
tracted collectors from across the 
region for more than 30 years. Enjoy a variety of personal col-lections and learn the history and context of these treasures. From 
sports and Beatles memorabilia 
to classic cars and antique cam-eras, chat with the collectors to discover how collecting isn’t just 
for scientists! For more informa-
tion, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/collec-torsday or call 352-273-2061.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club invites you and your friends out to their lessons and dances twice a week every Monday and 
Friday. The club has free lessons 
for beginners and intermedi-ates open to everyone. Monday nights they are at the Reitz Union Breezeway, located at 655 Reitz 
Union Drive, with lessons from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. and social danc-ing from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday nights they are at the Unified 
Training Center, located at 809 
W. University Ave., with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m.If you have any questions or 
would like to get involved, please 
find the club on Facebook. The club hopes to dance with you all soon. Visit them at face-
book.com/groups/FLSDC.
Toastmasters meets Tuesdays 
at UFTalking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 
p.m. in the Entomology Building Room 1031, 970 Natural Area Drive, UF campus, east of the 
Harn Museum. Everyone is wel-
come to attend and learn about Toastmasters' excellent program of public speaking and leader-ship.
STATE
Artist charged with attempted 
murder in theme park attack
ORLANDO, Fla. — A recently 
fired caricature artist at Universal Orlando Resort tried to kill his 
manager by stabbing him in the 
neck with scissors on New Year’s Day, according to a police re-port released Monday. Frederick 
Torres, 33, was charged with at-
tempted first-degree murder for his attack on Glenn Ferguson at the Islands of Adventure park. Both artists draw caricatures at 
Universal’s parks but work for 
an outside firm, Orlando-based Fasen Artists, Inc.The general manager of the firm, 
Anthony Fasen, told detectives 
he had fired Torres the day be-fore the attack. On New Year’s Day, Torres called Fasen, who said he reiter-
ated that Torres was fired. Torres 
then said he was going to kill Ferguson, according to the police report.
The stabbings cut an artery in 
Ferguson’s neck and caused brain leakage, according to the police report. He underwent surgery and was still hospital-
ized Monday, but his condition 
wasn’t immediately known. The police report did not list his age, but Orlando Police spokes-
woman Michelle Guido said 
Monday that he is 42.
Mosque on Florida’s Space Coast 
vandalized on New Year’s Day
TITUSVILLE, Fla. — Police say 
a mosque along Florida’s Space Coast has been vandalized, with 
lights and windows smashed 
by a machete and bacon left at the scene. Officers in the city of Titusville say the vandal 
went to the Islamic Society of 
Central Florida Masjid Al-Munin Mosque on Jan. 1. Surveillance video shows a man entering the mosque’s carport late at night 
when no one was there and us-
ing a machete to smash cameras, lights and windows.According to a police report, de-
tectives were unable to immedi-
ately identify the man.Police say the bacon was left by the front door. Consumption of pork and prod-
ucts made from pork is forbidden 
in Islam.
NATIONAL
Obama moves to require 
background checks for more gun sales
WASHINGTON — President 
Barack Obama moved Monday to expand background checks 
to cover more firearms sold at 
gun shows, online and anywhere else, aiming to curb a scourge of gun violence despite unyield-ing opposition to new laws in 
Congress. 
Obama's plan to broaden back-ground checks forms the center-piece of a broader package of gun control measures the president 
plans to take on his own in his 
final year in office. Although Obama can't unilater-ally change gun laws, the presi-
dent is hoping that beefing up 
enforcement of existing laws can prevent at least some gun deaths in a country rife with them. "This is not going to solve every violent 
crime in this country," Obama 
said. Still, he added, "It will po-tentially save lives and spare families the pain of these extraor-
dinary losses."
Under current law, only feder-ally licensed gun dealers must conduct background checks on buyers, but many who sell guns 
at flea markets, on websites or 
in other informal settings don't register as dealers. Gun control advocates say that loophole is 
exploited to skirt the background 
check requirement.
Now, the Justice Department's 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives will is-
sue updated guidance that says the government should deem anyone "in the business" of sell-
ing guns to be a dealer, regard-
less of where he or she sells the guns. To that end, the govern-ment will consider other factors, including how many guns a per-
son sells and how frequently, 
and whether those guns are sold for a profit.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 74
HIGH  55° LOW  45°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
 Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, email@alligator.org  
 Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
 Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
 University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
 Assistant Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
 alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
 Editorial Board Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
 Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
 Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
  Assistant Avenue Editor Kristen Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
 Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
 Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga,  Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,      
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
Friends, competitors and teammates took 
to social media when a UF long-distance run-
ner was hit by a car.
Lauren Brasure, a 19-year-old UF sociol-
ogy sophomore, was crossing West University 
Avenue and 24th Street when she was hit at 
about 10 p.m. on Dec. 9. She was rushed to UF Health Shands Hospital and later had brain surgery.
Her teammate and friend, Lauren Perry, 
said she rushed to the emergency room when she got a text saying Brasure had been hit.
She wanted to remain positive and support-
ive of Brasure and her family through it all, the 
19-year-old UF business sophomore said.
During the next few days, support for the 
runner flooded the hospital room through 
cards, gifts and Bible verses, Perry said. About 75 athletes wrote messages to Brasure on col-orful pieces of paper to make a prayer chain that hung above her bed as she recovered.“The entire sports community at UF really 
teamed up to support her and her family,” she said.
On Dec. 11, Florida State University’s cross 
country and track and field athletes came to-gether during their last week of finals, wearing maroon and gold. They made signs that read 
“Stay Strong” and “#PrayforLauren.”
Bridget Blake, a co-captain of FSU’s cross-
country team, said even though FSU and UF 
are rivals, Brasure was a friend. She said she would do it for any runner: The bond of ath-letes goes past any rivalry.
“Just to let her know that we’re there,” 
Blake said she told her teammates. “That’s something very scary, especially not knowing 
what’s going to happen.”
The picture made rounds on social media, 
said Robert Thomas, a sports director at FSU.
“When someone goes down, there’s a lot 
of compassion,” Thomas said. “I think there’s 
a natural connection, just kind of a common bond. I think the Florida girls would do the same thing for our girls.”Friends and competitors rally to support injured UF athlete 
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
mkornfield@alligator.org
Some people might see their 
favorite beauty products disap-
pear from shelves in 2017.
A law signed by President 
Obama in December will prohibit companies from selling products that include microbeads used to 
exfoliate or cleanse, including 
toothpaste.
Microbeads are synthetic piec-
es of plastic smaller than 5 mil-limeters, according to the Micro-
bead-Free Waters Act of 2015.
Christopher Cuevas, a 19-year-
old UF environmental engineer-
ing sophomore, said the beads 
are rinsed off into the sewer sys-
tem where they pass through fil-ters and run into the waterways.
“We are reliant on our water 
supply for tourism and fishing,” Cuevas said.
Eight trillion microbeads go 
into the environment daily, ac-
cording to a study published in 
the journal Environmental Sci-ence and Technology.
Maia McGuire, a UF Institute 
of Food and Agricultural Sciences extension agent,  runs a project that measures plastic pollution in Florida waters.
She said volunteers collect wa-
ter samples in coastal areas, but the beads’ effects on health and the environment are unknown.
“We don’t have a lot of stud-
ies looking at the environmental effect of this,” she said.
McGuire also said the one-
page bill is too broad and leaves loopholes for companies to ex-ploit.
However, in the last three 
years, companies Unilever and Target have already stopped in-corporating microbeads into their products, McGuire said.
“I think it is a good start,” she 
said.New law puts ban on microbeadsCourtesy to the Alligator
Florida State University athletes pose for a photo in support of UF long-distance run-
ner Lauren Brasure. The photo made rounds on social media as athletes from other universities shared their support.
“For us, it’s an employment 
tax,” he said. “For those people at 
the bottom, this is a huge percent 
of their income.”
Ziogas said GAU initially want-
ed a raise proportional to the sala-ries graduate assistants were mak-ing. That way, more money would be given to those who made less.
“We did not ask for more mon-
ey than what the university was offering,” he said.
The proportional raises were 
rejected by UF, and UF proposed giving all graduate assistants the same amount in raises, Ziogas said. The negotiations have lasted since August and included talks with Joe Glover, the UF provost and senior vice president for aca-demic affairs. Glover could not be reached for comment.
Alec Dinnin, GAU co-presi-
dent, said although the agreement was not perfect, it was a step in 
the right direction. GAU plans to 
continue pushing for raises when 
negotiations open up again in the 
summer.
“We still have graduate assis-
tants here that are struggling to 
get by,” said Dinnin, a UF politi-
cal science doctoral student. “As 
long as that’s the case, we’ll defi-
nitely be pushing for stipends to 
increase.”
GAU was willing to accept the 
percentage salary raise to help those who make the least, the 
27-year-old said.
“That in itself is a win,” Din-
nin said.GAU,  from pg1GAU will continue to 
push for raises The ban starts in 2017
“W e are reliant on our water supply for tourism and fishing.”
Christopher Cuevas
 UF environmental engineering sophomoreTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Chuck Clemons, Santa Fe’s Vice President for Advancement, shows off 
a water-damaged compact VHS tape from a 25-year-old time capsule during Santa Fe College’s Convocation on Monday. Baseball cards, pho-tos and other memorabilia were recovered from the container as well. 
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Santa Fe College commenced 
2016 with its Spring Convocation 
in the Fine Arts Hall on Monday, 
reflecting on the past and looking 
to the future.
“This year has been a mile-
stone year of great proportions,” 
Student Body President Conor 
Flynn said in a video message.
In 2015, Second Lady Jill Biden 
visited the college and the Aspen Institute ranked Santa Fe the No. 
1 community college in the na-
tion.
Moving into 2016, SFC Presi-
dent Jackson Sasser urged faculty 
and staff to continue their suc-
cessful work. He also emphasized the importance of finding ways to improve.
“What more can we do (for 
students)?” Sasser asked the au-dience of mostly staff and faculty, whom he praised for helping San-ta Fe get to where it is today.
SG, Flynn said, plans to assess students’ opinions of the college’s tobacco policy and continue to work with the Florida legislature 
to address homeless students.
Sasser later welcomed to the 
stage former Santa Fe President 
Dr. Lawrence “Larry” Tyree, for 
whom the college’s library is 
named.
“It’s good to be back after a hi-
atus of 14 years,” said Tyree, who served as president from 1990 to 
2001.
Looking back on his time as 
president, Tyree recalled the 1990 
murders of Santa Fe and UF stu-
dents as being the most challeng-
ing event of his career.
“While the murders were more 
than 25 years ago, I remember the fear and hysteria that enveloped 
this community,” Tyree said.
The events, Tyree said, led to 
heightened security, flexibility 
of rules and policies, and better 
communication inside the college 
and the community.
Today, the college has its own 
police department which operates 24/7. Sasser said it’s comforting to have officials who know how to respond to an emergency.
Such an emergency could in-
clude a shooter on campus, which Sasser said was highly unlikely but possible. Still, he showed a 
news clip on how people should 
react during a shooting and urged faculty and staff to consider how they would react.
“Think about it — it’s just the 
world we live in — and then do what you need to do,” Sasser said.
At the end of the convocation, 
Vice President for Advancement Chuck Clemons joined Sasser to present baseball cards, a Polaroid photo, a Pepsi card and a com-pact VHS tape inside a time cap-
sule that was buried 25 years ago.
However, water seeped into 
the capsule over the years and de-
stroyed the VHS tape and photo. 
The cards remained intact, but 
were far from pristine.
Sasser said another time cap-
sule would be placed inside the recently constructed clock tower, 
safe from rainwater, and will be 
opened in 2041.
“May this be the very best se-
mester ever,” Sasser said.SFC reflects on past tragedies, 
addresses future of campus safety
Also opened time capsuleThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
New Year’s  
resolutions don’t 
have to have grim 
prospects
“New year, new me,” the aphorism goes. Does 
this mean, “new semester, new Alligator” holds equally true?
Welcome to the ﬁ  rst issue of the Spring 2016 
Independent Florida Alligator. We’re hoping if 
you’ve made it this far into the paper  — a whopping six pages — it’s because you enjoy compelling, honest reporting and uncom-
promised opinions from the best young journalists and writers 
Gainesville has to offer. If you skipped this far ahead to get to the cartoon or you’re reading this online, well, we’ll take what we can get.
Since we’re still basking in the warm, optimistic glow of a 
new year and the inevitable onset of Spring semester stress has not taken its hold (yet), it can become easy to forget just why the phrase “new year, new me” is regarded with such derision and dismissal. By the time week three of the new year rolls around, 
and all of the inconveniences and demands that comprise non-
Winter Break life make a reappearance, the idea of “new year, new anything” becomes a distant dream. Trying to lose weight? Not going to happen while stocking up on sweets and sugars to stay awake for late-night study sessions. That instrument you’ve 
been dying to learn? Sounds nice, but passing your foreign lan-
guage requirement deﬁ  nitely seems like a more pressing priority.
With the seemingly negative attitude of the above paragraph 
in mind, we’d like to offer the following counterpoint: New Year’s 
resolutions don’t have to follow the conventional “inevitable fail-
ure” script. It’s a tired and well-worn one, with nothing interest-ing left to say. Take that drunken and enthused energy you may or may not have legally had during New Year’s Eve and make it last for the rest of the year. MAKE time to lose weight. PLAN 
when you’ll sneak away to strum strings and learn new chords. 
Cling for dear life to the notion that, yes, this WILL be the year that you change your life irrevocably.
Is it likely to pan out exactly that way? Hell no. As Steinbeck 
(or rather, Burns) would tell you, the best-laid plans of mice and men often go awry. However, the musings of an 18th-century Scottish poet and a 20th-century American author are no excuse for not trying.
Just as many of you have hopes and ambitions of self-im-
provement in the coming year, so too does the Alligator. We will continue to work to shine light on the compelling stories, news and lives that populate our ﬁ  ne city and university. Speaking for the opinions section, we don’t plan on abandoning our commit-
ment to providing a platform for diverse and original voices any 
time soon. If you’d like to actualize your journalistic ambitions, or you secretly wish to become a part of a loving, dysfunctional family, we will be hosting an open house at our ofﬁ  ce Friday from noon to 5 p.m. We cannot wait to see what the year ahead 
holds, and we look forward to sharing it with you all.Flaky friends and a serious fear of commitment 
As we return from Winter Break, 
many of us can easily attest to the difﬁ  culty of making plans with old 
and new friends alike. Perhaps the 
struggle stems from overscheduled 
lives or your inability to change out of the pajamas you wore for three weeks straight, 
but you can’t deny that making plans often 
morphs into a viciously futile cycle of back-and-forth texts that ultimately lead nowhere. Responses like, “Maybe!” and, “I’ll try!” be-come increasingly prevalent as they incorporate the per-
fect amount of ambiguity without becoming a full-out 
“no.” But it wasn’t always this way. So what’s changed?
Aziz Ansari put it best in his “Live at Madison Square 
Garden” special: “No one wants to commit to shit be-
cause they’re terriﬁ  ed that something better’s going to 
come along.” 
We’re hyperconnected, and our fear of missing out 
fuels our inability to commit. It was this painfully acute observation about what Ansari calls “the least lonely 
generation” that continued to resurface in my mind as 
I experienced an extreme manifestation of this fear of commitment ﬁ  rsthand.
I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit I can be a bit anal-retentive 
when it come to making plans, and surrounding myself with equally orderly friends only worsens the problem. They know I need notice of any plans at least 24 hours in advance and there must always be conﬁ  rmation the day of. I know; it’s overkill. 
So when I was invited to spend New Year’s Eve 
in Miami with two friends, I told myself, for once, I needed to relax: no making plans, leading the group or unnecessarily stressing (my specialty). I swallowed my 
distaste for New Year’s resolutions and made a commit-
ment to take a step back from micromanaging, at least for a few days.
What I didn’t know was during this period 
of time I would be introduced to the ﬂ  akiest 
group of individuals I have ever met. Friends 
of a friend, they constantly discussed plans that never came to fruition and backed out without so much as an excuse or apology. 
We stayed in town for an extra day to take 
one of them to the airport, only to be told last minute she found another ride. I miraculous-ly kept my mouth shut until the ride home, 
when my friend gave me the dismissal that everyone at 
her school was like that. “They’re great friends, but not 
very dependable,” she said.
To me, it seemed like an oxymoron: Isn’t friendship 
deﬁ  ned by your ability to be there for each other? Yet, 
the more I thought about it, the more I was reminded of 
the last-minute excuses I had given to get out of plans in favor of something presumably better. It’s a constant temptation: the ability to send a text and be immediate-ly freed of any and all obligations, stemming from our 
generational inability to say no. In the era of ghosting, 
ceasing all contact with someone sans explanation is often seen as a better decision than an honest confron-tation because, well, it’s easier and we like to keep our 
options open.
If you truly care about someone, you’ll make time 
for them  — no exceptions. Despite my hesitation to ever 
admit that my mom is right, she’s the one who origi-nally drilled this lesson into my head, and it’s never 
been proven wrong. 
Commitments aren’t as terrifying as they may seem 
and being upfront with someone saves you a lot of trou-
ble in the long run. Besides, no one likes a ﬂ  aky friend.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. Her column 
appears on Tuesdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Zach Schlein is a UF 
political science senior and 
the opinions editor for the Alligator this Spring. Like many Jewish men in Florida, 
he was born in New Jersey 
before moving to Boca Raton in 2002. From a young age, Zach was shaped by his love for irreverent British comedy, satirical talk show hosts and a self-detrimental disdain for authority. When he’s not in the Alligator office, you can catch 
him in one of Gainesville’s 
many coffee shops, sipping an iced latte and listening to whatever new album NPR is streaming that week. After graduation, he hopes to live as a bohemian in New York for an unspecified amount of time before transitioning 
to becoming a bona fide 
journalist. Despite being in the same office he occupied last semester, he hopes to finally make it “his” and hang up more idiosyncratic posters/clips/what-have-you. If you’d like to accuse his section of being a filthy institution 
of commie pinko ideals or 
complain about the number of esoteric pop cultural references, he can be reached at opinions@alligator.org or zschlein@alligator.org.Ariana Figueroa is a 
20-year-old journalism 
junior and the editor-in-chief at the Alligator this Spring. She was a managing editor last 
semester and covered the 
Student Government beat for two semesters, which she reported on Senate 
meetings, two elections and 
other shenanigans. She’s excited to interact with students, write and spend time at the Alligator where 
her caffeine addiction 
is never frowned upon. When she doesn’t have a cup of coffee or a book in 
her hand, you can find her 
running, watching Netflix or swimming. She’s currently deciding if she should start the “Doctor Who” series, 
but it seems like a lot of 
time and dedication and she’s not ready for that type of commitment. If you 
have any story ideas or 
complaints reach out to her at afigueroa@alligator.org or follow her on Twitter at @ArianaLFigueroa.8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
MEET THE EDITORS
Emily Cochrane is a 
20-year-old journalism junior and the managing 
online editor at the Alligator 
this Spring. Before taking over social media and the Internet on behalf of the 
Alligator, she ruled over 
the metro section this past Fall and covered the police beat last Spring. This semester, she looks forward 
to spending more time in 
her favorite newsroom and working with her fellow journalists. When 
she’s not appreciating 
her chance to use one of the few functioning Mac computers in the office, you can probably find 
her listening to Disney 
music, watching Netflix or cuddling a stuffed panda. She’s always ready for a 
dish of frozen yogurt and 
an enthusiastic discussion about Harry Potter. If you have story ideas, concerns or panda possessions, send 
her an email at ecochrane@
alligator.org or follow her on Twitter @ESCochrane.
Mary Grace Henley is a 
21-year-old English senior and the managing print editor 
at the Alligator this Spring. 
After a two-semester reign as the copy desk queen, she has developed a taste for 
impeccable grammar and 
a nice cup of coffee, or six. When she’s not spending her precious few hours of free time napping, she’s probably 
becoming emotional at 
pictures of baby elephants or eating Mexican food. She is an avid believer in the “leggings 
as pants” movement and is 
always eager for a healthy argument about which of Rory’s boyfriends was the best — it’s Jess, by the way. 
Although she loves her job 
at the Alligator, she wouldn’t turn down an offer to fulfill her childhood dream and become 
a princess; where is Julie 
Andrews when you need her? If you’re up for an extremely passionate discussion about how adorable puppies are, 
or have any story ideas or 
concerns, send her an email at mgracehenley@alligator.org.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
600 NW 5th Ave
Gainesville
FL 32601
(352) 
384-1008Fades and Fros
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
         DO YOU          DO YOU          DO YOU          DO YOU 
     HAVE WHAT IT      HAVE WHAT IT      HAVE WHAT IT      HAVE WHAT IT 
TAKES TO INTERN?TAKES TO INTERN?TAKES TO INTERN?TAKES TO INTERN?TAKES TO INTERN?         DO YOU 
     HAVE WHAT IT 
TAKES TO INTERN?
Brought to you by
Positions coming to 
an alligator near youPositions coming to 
an alligator near you
Send your resume & questions to Send your resume & questions to 
Advertising@Alligator.orgAdvertising@Alligator.org
SPRING 2016Major key: Become an edi-
tor. Giuseppe Sabella became 
metro editor after grinding on the cops beat in the Fall. At the core of his soul, he is a young child and an old man. He owns both a Panama Jack shirt and an Avengers color-ing book. You won’t know whether to look at the leaves on his shirt or the crayon he 
just broke as he balances 
scribbling and lecturing. 
They don’t want him to eat Leonardo’s Pizza. They don’t want him to edit stories ev-
ery day. Still, Giuseppe will 
sit at his desk with a slice of 
Greek pizza, a box of garlic rolls and a tub of marinara. He’ll work on articles line by 
line, no matter how long it 
takes. There’s only one thing 
Giuseppe truly wants in life: another one.
Aaron Albright is a 
21-year-old journalism ju-
nior and the Alligator photo 
editor this Spring. He has a 
passion for sports photogra-phy and giraffes. When he’s not bringing more video 
game characters to decorate 
the photo ofﬁ  ce, you can ﬁ  nd him reading his Bible, coding websites and adding GIFs to every group chat. 
He’s surprised he hasn’t 
been removed from those conversations yet. He looks forward to a semester full 
of engaging photo stories 
and news coverage. If you have any ideas, photos or dank memes, email him at aalbright@alligator.org or 
follow him on Twitter @
Tallbrighty.Caitlin Ostroff is a 
19-year-old journalism and 
political science junior and the university editor at the Alligator this Spring. She was the Student Govern-ment beat reporter last Fall, when she covered Senate meetings, Fall elections and more awareness weeks than she can count. When she’s not ﬁ  nding a good story and 
asking questions, she’s try-
ing to invent the caffeine 
patch or adding to the list of shows she needs to watch but knows she’ll never have 
time to. Her dream job is to 
work for the Daily Prophet, 
but until then, she’s just hap-py to write. If you have story ideas, comments or rants, 
email her at costroff@alliga-
tor.org.
Andres Leiva is a 
21-year-journalism senior. 
At the Alligator, Andres is 
the assistant photo editor, 
so please don’t be weirded out if he takes a picture of you on campus. It’s totally 
cool. He was born in Mi-
ami, but he grew up in El Salvador, which is a Central American country about the size of your pinky on a 
map. He enjoys listening to 
Schoolboy Q as well as Tay-lor Swift. After he gradu-ates, he wants to return to 
El Salvador and do inves-
tigative photojournalism. Have a photo tip? Shoot him an email at aleiva@alligator.org or tweet @An-
dresMLeiva.10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
LOCAL
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Gainesville’s City Auditor recent-
ly began reviewing whether Mayor 
Ed Braddy and a city employee fol-lowed city guidelines in their inter-actions with a police officer charged 
with larceny in November.
The audit will review whether 
Braddy and former Human Resourc-
es employee Tiffany Dorsey followed city policies and procedures when they accepted gifts from Jeffery Mc-Adams.
McAdams, a former Gainesville 
Police officer and president of the Gainesville Fraternal Order of Police Gator Lodge No. 67, was charged with larceny after an investigation 
by the Florida Department of Law 
Enforcement.
FDLE found that McAdams stole 
more than $56,000 from Gator Lodge.
“Obviously if we had policies not 
being followed for a long period of time, what didn’t we do?” said City Auditor Carlos Holt. “If all policies and procedures were followed, do we need any more?”
McAdams used lodge funds to 
cover hotel stays, travel expenses and gifts for Braddy and Dorsey 
without their knowledge, according 
to FDLE.
The investigation also found tht 
McAdams used lodge funds to pay for hotel stays in Gainesville and Ocala for Braddy while he faced rela-tionship issues.Braddy apologized for his lapse in 
judgment during a November press conference.
In December, he addressed the 
investigation in an email to media where he wrote both the questions and answers.
Braddy said he presumed Mc-
Adams personally paid for the hotel rooms in Gainesville and Ocala. He later made a $515.46 payment to Gator Lodge, according to the email.
Braddy said he went on a trip to 
Daytona Beach in 2013 with McAd-ams, during which McAdams used lodge funds to cover expenses, to meet an unnamed person to discuss Gainesville Regional Utilities.
McAdams accompanied him to 
facilitate the meeting, Braddy said.
Braddy self-reported himself to 
the Florida Commission on Ethics, acknowledging a potential conflict of interest, according to the email.
Holt said the audit, supported by 
Braddy, is anticipated to be finished next month.
Audit reviews mayor’s relation with officer charged with larceny
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
One of the main researchers featured in the 
movie “Concussion” has been appointed as in-terim executive directior of UF Health’s McK-night Brain Institute.
Dr. Steven DeKosky, a UF neurology pro-
fessor, will hold the position temporarily until a permanent director can be found, said David Guzick, the president of UF Health. DeKosky will be paid $300,000, UF spokesperson Steve Orlando said.
DeKosky was the most qualified for the po-
sition, Guzick said.
“He has a lot of administrative experience,” 
he said.Before DeKosky came to UF, he was the di-
rector of the Alzheimer Disease Research Cen-ter at the University of Pittsburgh where he did research that linked football injuries to brain 
injuries, Guzick said. 
DeKosky was portrayed in “Concussion” 
after he helped with research focused on 
Mike Webster, a former football player for the Pittsburgh Steelers who died as a result of his sports injuries.
DeKosky said when he came back to UF he 
found a larger neuroscience community than he expected.
While he is director, he will start an online 
directory of everyone working in neuroscience at UF, he said.
 “We have people who are doing neurosci-
ence things all over campus,” he said.New McKnight interim director
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
UF students will continue to have unlim-
ited online access to The New York Times.
The subscription, which has to be renewed 
each year, was updated this Fall, said Nicho-las Carré, the Student Body treasurer.  
“You’ll have that as long as we have the 
contract signed and we’re paying it,” he said.
The subscription costs about $80,000, with 
$40,000 paid for by SG and $40,000 from the Office of the Provost, he said. The subscrip-tion has been available online since October 2014. 
A constant issue has been marketing the 
free subscription to students.“We have the service, but it’s only getting 
spread by word of mouth,” he said.
Ariana Raitano, a 20-year-old UF finance 
sophomore, said it’s a resource students don’t really know about.
“I didn’t even know it was offered at all,” 
she said.
She said she found out about the subscrip-
tion before Thanksgiving. Now, she reads two or three stories a day.
Carré said according to the Office of the 
Provost 5,898 individuals have accessed the subscription. There wasn’t a defined time frame of when those numbers were gathered, but the numbers were similar to the reader-ship numbers during the 2014-2015 year.
He said SG is also looking to add other 
news outlets.SG renews NYT subscriptionTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF researcher discovers six new 
species of frog
A UF researcher at the Florida Museum of Natural 
History, along with a research team, has discovered six 
new species of African clawed frogs.
These small frogs have gone unnoticed for decades 
due to their similarity to other known species, said Da-vid Blackburn, the senior author of the research paper and a curator of herpetology, the study of amphibians, 
at the Florida Museum. 
He said he believes this new discovery will offer new 
opportunities for research.
“African clawed frogs are found all over the world in 
labs,” Blackburn said.
These frogs will be especially useful to the reproduc-
tion biology ﬁ  eld, he said. Scientists have used these 
frogs as pregnancy tests. These species lay eggs when exposed to the hormones found in a pregnant woman’s 
urine.
Blackburn said he also sees advances in the genetics 
ﬁ  eld with this discovery.
These species have genetic variations not found in 
most animal species known today, he said. While hu-mans have two copies of genes in every cell, one spe-
cies of frog has 12.
“Every new species that is out there is another piece 
of the puzzle to understanding nature,” Blackburn said.
- Meryl KornfieldUF researchers link alcohol taxes and 
gonorrhea, chlamydia
Researchers at UF Health have discovered a link 
between alcohol tax rates and the transmittance of 
gonorrhea and chlamydia.
Using data from a 2011 Maryland law which in-
creased the alcohol tax to six percent, researchers found that Maryland experienced 2,400 fewer cases of gonorrhea in the 18 months after the new law was 
enacted.
Increasing the alcohol tax also decreased sexu-
ally transmitted infection rates among all ages, said 
Stephanie Staras, a UF assistant professor of health outcomes and policy and the lead researcher on the 
study. Almost half of all sexually transmitted diseases 
are found in 15- to 24-year-olds nationally.
“Consuming alcohol before sex increases the 
chances of getting an STI by decreasing the chances of 
using a condom, and increasing the chances of picking 
a partner who has an STI,” Staras said.
She said she believes policymakers should consider 
increasing alcohol taxes and looking into other poli-cies that could inﬂ  uence STI rates. “The ﬁ  ndings from 
our study add to the extensive research showing in-
creasing alcohol taxes reduces human suffering from diseases and accidents,” Staras said.
- Meryl KornfieldUF research focuses on estrogen’s 
link to memory
UF researchers are studying estrogen’s role in com-
bating memory loss.
During the two-year study, researchers found the 
alpha receptor, which helps store memories in the 
brain, can help improve memory when paired with an injection of estrogen. Estrogen protects the brain and memory functions.
They decided to do the research after another study 
found the beneﬁ  ts of estrogen decrease after a woman 
turns 65 years old, said Thomas Foster, a UF neuro-
science professor. UF has completed research before about estrogen’s role in protecting memory loss, but the study made him wonder why the effects of estro-
gen diminish with age.
For the study, researchers injected a virus into mid-
dle-aged rats’ minds to rejuvenate them, he said. After 
they were given estrogen shots, they tested alpha and beta receptors in their brains to see if there was im-
provement in memory. There was an improvement in 
memory with the alpha receptor.
But estrogen can cause cancer, Foster said. In the 
future, researchers want to see if something other than estrogen can act on the alpha receptor.
“We don’t know what it does, how it does that,” 
he said. 
- Caitlin OstroffTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
The National Academy of Inventors 
has recognized two UF professors for 
their work in creating and patenting in-novations.
Roy Curtiss III, a professor in the 
department of infectious diseases and pathology, and Ann Progulske-Fox, a professor in the College of Dentistry, will join the list of UF faculty who have been inducted into the NAI, bringing the total to 11.
Progulske-Fox said she received the news the night before her birthday.
She was nominated, but she said she 
didn’t think she would get it. She found out Dec. 9 she was one of 168 recognized 
in 2015 by the organization. 
She and Curtiss will be inducted April 
15 at the NAI conference in Washington, 
D.C.
“It was a very nice early birthday 
present,” Progulske-Fox said.
She said the group effort among her 
and two other UF alumni faculty led them to create a method that ﬁ  nds genes 
in bacteria and allows researchers to see 
how those genes react in the human body.As a result, they’ve been able to cre-
ate a kit for dentists to use on patients, she said. It identiﬁ  es periodontal disease, a type of gum disease that can lead to 
heart problems.
The method has led to countless other 
researchers discovering important genes 
in bacteria and how those genes cause problems in the human body, Progulske-Fox said.
John Byatt, the associate director at 
UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Licensing Technology, said Progulske-Fox’s and Curtiss’ works 
have been successful.
“It helps us show that not only are 
we getting research dollars, but those research dollars are resulting in innova-
tions which are signiﬁ  cant to society,” Byatt said.
Curtiss was recognized for his 40 
years’ worth of patents.
Curtiss said he has patents pending, 
but has more than 100 being used world-wide in places such as Europe, Japan and South Africa. His ﬁ  rst patent was ﬁ  led in February 1976.
Last year, he ﬁ  led ﬁ  ve U.S. patents. 
He said he’s lost track of his total num-ber. 
He’s currently working on developing 
technology for vaccines to control salmo-nella. Two UF professors recognized for inventions
Curtiss III
Progulske-Fox
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a local woman 
early Sunday morning after police said she threatened her roommate with a machete.
At about 12:10 a.m. Sunday, Jamaice 
Monique Thomas, 18, and a few of her fam-
ily members argued with Thomas’ room-
mate in the 3000 block of Southwest Archer Road, according to a police report.
When the roommate walked out of her 
apartment, Thomas’ mother went to talk with her. Scared for her mother’s safety, Thomas followed her outside with other family members, according to the report.
Thomas then swung at her roommate 
with a serrated machete and missed, ac-cording to the report.
A witness said the family was yelling at 
the roommate inside the apartment. How-ever, according to the report, Thomas said 
it was her roommate who began the argu-
ment.
Thomas denied using a machete and 
could not be reached for comment as of press time.
Police charged Thomas with aggravated 
assault and took her to the Alachua County Jail where she was released later on Sunday on a $15,000 bond.Woman wields macheteroommate
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
Gainesville Police arrested a Florida man 
Saturday morning after police said he threat-ened an ofﬁ  cer in hopes of going to jail.
At about 1 a.m. Saturday, Calvin Lavon 
Lane, 33, approached an ofﬁ  cer in the 100 
block of Southwest Second Street and said 
he wanted to be arrested, according to a GPD report.
The ofﬁ  cer said he would not take Lane to 
jail, but Lane had a backup plan.
Lane told the ofﬁ  cer he could slap him and 
go to jail. He then took off his shirt and raised his clenched ﬁ  sts, according to the report.
He approached the ofﬁ  cer, who feared 
Lane would punch him. The ofﬁ  cer soon ar-rested Lane without incident.
Lane said he wanted to go to jail because 
he had nowhere else to go, according to the report.
Since 2014, Lane was found guilty on 
charges of ﬂ  eeing from police, leaving the scene of an accident and driving with a sus-pended license, according to Alachua County court records.
Police charged Lane with simple assault 
on an ofﬁ  cer and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $10,000 bond.Man hoped to be arrested14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
The qualifying period for Spring 2016 Gainesville District 4 Commission and mayoral Elections ended over Winter Break, finalizing the candidates running 
for office. For mayor, incumbent Ed Braddy is up against former city commissioner Lauren Poe and Gainesville resident Donald Shepherd Sr. Running for 
District 4 City Commissioner are Gainesville residents Jim Konish and Adrian Hayes-Santos. Current District 4 Commissioner Randy Wells is finishing his term limit. Voting takes place March 15 during the Presidential Preference Primary & City of Gainesville Election. Here are the candidates’ platforms:A look at 2016 District 4 Commission and mayoral candidatesBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroff@alligator.org
A new grant will allow UF’s HealthStreet 
to help residents in lower income counties.
HealthStreet received a 3-year grant for 
$300,000 from Florida Blue on Dec. 9, said 
Catherine Striley, an assistant professor of epidemiology. The grant will allow the program to send health workers to Putnam and Union counties to evaluate residents’ health. Currently, HealthStreet only does this in Alachua and Duval counties.
In Putnam and Union counties, the 
grant will also allow them to transport resi-dents to doctors as far away as Gainesville or Jacksonville when necessary, she said.
HealthStreet wanted to expand to Put-
nam and Union counties to determine what 
their health care system needs, Striley said.
“It won’t be until we’re actually on the street and talking to people that we’ll find 
where the holes are,” she said. “This is 
kind of an opening for us but not at all an 
ending.”
Florida Blue will continue to give the 
grant annually, said Velma Monteiro-Trib-ble, Florida Blue’s director of grants and 
programs. She said more nonprofits will 
apply in coming years. This year, about 20 organizations applied.
A total of $1.5 million was divided be-
tween the six organizations that received the grant across the state, Monteiro-Tribble said.She said Florida Blue gave HealthStreet 
the grant to help them reach out to under-served communities.
“I think this was a well-deserved grant,” 
she said.UF HealthStreet gets grant to help low-income patients
The grant is worth $300,000“It won’t be until we’re actually on the 
street and talking to people that we’ll 
find where the holes are. This is kind 
of an opening for us but not at all an 
ending.”
Catherine Striley
Assistant professor of epidemiology
• Lower Gainesville 
Regional Utilities 
bills
• Make Gainesville 
more user-friendly
• Expand opportuni-ties for city resi-dents, especially 
those with low in-
comesED BRADDY
Mayoral CandidateLAUREN POE
Mayoral Candidate
• Work to fully fund and implement the 
Parks and Recre-
ation Master Plan and continue work 
on 352ArtsRoadmap
• Expand youth and 
children programs
• Build a transporta-tion system that is more effective and 
safe for everyoneDONALD SHEPHERD SR.
Mayoral Candidate
• Get students more 
involved in elec-
tions and voting
• Address park-ing issues for stu-
dents, especially towing
• Lower GRU billsJIM KONISH
District 4 Candidate
• Work to lower GRU 
bills
• Defund Dignity Vil-
lage and Grace Mar-
ketplace and use 
those funds to im-prove infrastructure
• Establish buffer zones between low-density and high-
density neighbor-
hoods• Protect neighbor-hoods
• Promote an eco-nomically vibrant 
downtown  
• Preserve local nat-
ural environmentADRIAN HAYES-SANTOS
District 4 CandidateTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
SPRING TRAINING
ABOVE:
Landon Strack, left, and Stephanie Peck, both 22-year-old UF elementary education seniors, run 
up the bleachers in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Monday. Peck said she was training for the next Disney marathon.
LEFT:
Alexa Nordman, a 24-year-old UF sport management graduate student, and Haley Birkle, left, a 21-year-old student from Augusta University, run up the stairs in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Mon-
day. Birkle said she enjoyed training for fun.
Photos by Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-5-15-74-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-29-15-18-2HOUSES FOR NEXT FALL
Quality rental houses available soon. For 
August 2016. Walk or bike. Text or call 352-339-
2342. www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
1-5-15-18-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from cam-
pus. Nice house, wood floors, W/D provided, etc. $1550/mo, 1105 NW 10th Ave, Text or call 352-339-2342. More houses available at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-8-15-2-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA big, nice house with big backyard. Plus full size hot tab, all ame-nities, plus W/D Text or call 352-339-2342. $1600/mo. 3413 NE 8th Ave. More houses at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    1-8-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-5-15-36-13UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     1-5-15-5-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    12-9-15-
73-14
x
Student Positions Available
Evening Newspaper Production
The Independent Florida Alligator Editorial
Production department is now accepting
applications from students only.
Applicants should be available
evenings between the hours of
6:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
Production duties include page layout and
design. Experience with Adobe InDesign is
preferred, but not required.
A one-year commitment is expected.
Must be available for the spring semester.
Fill out an application at the front desk of
The Alligator, 1105 W University Ave, M-F 9
am - 5 pm. Include available work schedule
and references. No phone calls or e-mails,
please.  Previous applicants are welcome to
reapply with current schedule. EOE
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
SW 13th St Domino's hiring delivery driv-
ers. Closing drivers earn $100/night + . 
Apply at store or at gatordominos.com     
12-9-15-73-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-
ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14Full Charge Bookkeeper
(SW Gainesville, FL) 
Looking for an experienced Accountant/ 
Full-Charge Bookkeeper needed to work full 
time for a finance/investment firm. Candidate 
must be detail oriented, punctual, dedicated, 
and responsible. Must also possess a strong 
work ethic and the ability to handle multiple 
projects. Salary is negotiable and may be 
adjusted based on experience and skill set. 
Email: susie@strategicgroup.org    1-5-15-
3-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
DATA ENTRY POSITIONS (FT/PT)
Quickbooks experience helpful. Email re-
sume to: u2mebiz@gmail.com    1-5-15-2-14
Thorough cleaners needed with reliable cars 
and willing to drive to Williston, Jonesville ,morriston, and around Gainesville. Homes/apartments are cleaned 7days 8-5 and of-fices 7days 5p- until finished. weekly pay & 8.25/hr. Must pass a background check and drug test. Please call 352-214-0868 if inter-ested..    1-8-5-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring
coaches for cheerleading, recreational & team gymnastics & more!  Apply today at www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.     1-11-15-5-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a ser-vice? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted18   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 23 RidesFlorida fell 41-7 to Michigan in 
the Citrus Bowl on Friday. See photos from the game on Pg 22.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Purdue quarterback transfers to UF
Former Purdue quarterback Austin Appleby announced via Twitter on Mon-
day that he plans to transfer to Florida. Because Appleby is a graduate trans-fer, he is immediately eligible for the 2016 season. Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff 
UF football coach Jim McElwain walks off the ﬁ  eld following Florida's 41-7 loss to Michigan in the Cit-
rus Bowl on Jan. 1, 2016, in Orlando.
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
ORLANDO — Following No. 14 
Michigan’s 41-7 thrashing of No. 19 
Florida in the Citrus Bowl on Friday, Gators coach Jim McElwain walked into his postgame press conference 
with a smile.
The Missoula, Montana, native 
was upbeat and ready to answer 
questions as to why his team per-formed so poorly on both sides of the ball against the Wolverines.
There would be no lashing out on 
his team like he did following Flori-da’s 31-24 win over East Carolina.
Instead, McElwain was his usual 
self with the media: laid back with a smile on his face and cracking jokes.
“You know, I guess, maybe that’s 
my fault by being upbeat,” McElwain 
said after the game. “Yeah, I’m disap-
pointed.  We’re all disappointed.  But you also got to learn from disappoint-ment, and we will.”
But maybe McElwain realized just 
how good of a job he did in his ﬁ  rst season at Florida. McElwain re-es-tablished the Gators as the dominant program in the Southeastern Confer-ence Eastern Division, leading them to 10 wins and a spot in the SEC title game against Alabama.   
There were obstacles thrown at 
him left and right — whether it was berating Kelvin Taylor for making 
his throat slash gesture or the entire 
Will Grier saga — but he was able to handle each one fairly well. 
Even after all of that, he was still 
able to lead the program to its ﬁ  rst SEC East title since 2009. 
But then the complacency kicked 
in.‘LEARN FROM DISAPPOINTMENT’IT'S COHEN DOWN
Football is 
over.
There they 
are: the three saddest words 
ever written in the sports section of this 
newspaper.
But don’t worry, 
Gator fans.
While the football team’s 
rapid rise back into the national spotlight was put on hold after a 
disappointing loss to Michigan, and the basketball team’s in-consistent play has left the team 
still searching for its identity, 
other UF teams will be vying for the spotlight this spring season, and deservedly so.
Last spring ended with the 
softball team earning its sec-ond consecutive NCAA Cham-pionship, the Gymnastics team achieving a three-peat, and the 
baseball team ﬁ  nding itself one 
game away from reaching the College World Series ﬁ  nal.
And this year, the storylines 
for all three teams may be even 
more interesting than in years 
past.
Gymnastics coach Rhonda 
Faehn is gone, assuming a posi-
tion as the senior vice president 
of the women’s program for the USA Gymnastics Team.
She is replaced by 2015 Na-
tional Collegiate Assistant Coach 
of the Year Jenny Rowland, who 
won a World Championship as a gymnast with the USA National Team in 1989.And while the 
gymnastics team’s loss of All-American 
Kytra Hunter and 
senior Rachel Spicer certainly won’t do them any favors, the 
Gators return senior 
Bridget Sloan and pulled in a recruit-
ing class that includes three for-mer U.S. Senior National Team 
members and one Canadian Na-
tional Team member.
Florida softball will begin a 
new season under its two-time 
national champion coach Tim 
Walton but without All-Ameri-can Lauren Haeger, the pitcher and full-time home run hitter who shattered records at Florida 
and left as one of the greatest 
softball players to ever toe the rubber at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium.
However, the Gators return 
with a handful of experienced players and a strong recruiting class.
But, for a second straight 
year, they also return with a target on their back — UF will try to achieve just the second three-peat in collegiate softball 
history, and every team on their 
schedule will be gunning to stop them.
And, ﬁ  nally, after ﬁ  nishing 
the season with the second-best 
record in the history of the pro-
gram, Florida baseball will ex-pect to pick up where it left off.With football ﬁ  nished, other 
sports will ﬁ  ll the void
WHITE SAID OFFENSE ISN'T A 
TEAM STRENGTH
By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 After falling at home to Florida State last 
Tuesday, Florida got something it desper-
ately needed on Saturday: a win over Geor-
gia to open Southeastern Conference play. 
Gators' coach Mike White was happy 
with Florida's offensive outing in the 77-63 victory, but he knows the offense won’t be 
clicking every night, a weakness he has al-
ready witnessed through much of the ﬁ  rst two months of the regular season.
“Very pleased with a quality win for us 
over Georgia,” White said on Monday’s 
SEC coaches teleconference. 
“We had one of our better performanc-
es, especially offensively, to give ourselves 
a chance.”
White mentioned that freshman KeV-
aughn Allen and redshirt sophomore John Egbunu have continued to get better on of-fense. 
The two have blossomed in Florida’s 
last two games against the Seminoles and 
the Bulldogs.
Allen scored 32 points against FSU and 
18 against UGA, both team highs. Part of his point total was due to an impressive performance at the charity stripe, where 
Allen went 14-of-15 over the two games.
Egbunu grabbed 18 rebounds combined 
in those two matchups and recorded a dou-ble-double against the Bulldogs, scoring 12 
points to accompany 12 boards.
However, offense isn’t a team strength, 
as White noted on Monday. He says focus-
ing on playing solid defense makes the 
team better.
“I think defensively we’ve been pret-Defense carrying UF men’s basketball early in season  UF plans to build of loss
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 20 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 20
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 20“Very pleased with a quality win for us 
over Georgia. W e had one of our better 
performances, especially ofensively, to 
give ourselves a chance.”
Mike White
UF coach20   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
BASKETBALL
Ian Cohen
@Icohenb
BASKETBALL
Alex Maminakis
@alexmaminakis
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Ethan Bauer
@ebaueri
FOOTBALL
Jordan McPherson
@J_McPherson1126
FOOTBALL
Graham Hack
@graham_hack24
BASEBALL
Luis Torres
@LFTorresIII
BASEBALL
Patrick Pinak
@Pinakk12
GYMNASTICS
Alejandro Lopez
@ajlb95
SOFTBALL
Matt Brannon
@MattB_727
SOFTBALL
Brian Lee
@Brianlee_17
LACROSSE
Kyle Brutman
@KBrut13
WOMEN'S TENNIS
Jake Dreilinger
@DreilingerJake
TRACK AND FIELD
Lauren Staff
@Lstaff27FOLLOW OUR STAFF 
ON TWITTER
McElwain admitted that he worried the team 
felt content after clinching the division, a senti-
ment several players echoed.
“Coming off the season we had, 7-5, we got 
the SEC East, we felt like, ‘We’re good,’” sopho-
more cornerback Jalen Tabor said. “Just like we 
learned from that 7-5 team to get to the SEC cham-pionship, we’re going to learn from this team and how we got there but fell off late in the end.” 
Now, with the 2015 season done and dusted, 
McElwain is already preparing for the 2016 sea-
son. 
One of the first major points of the offseason 
for McElwain and his staff is recruiting. National 
Signing Day is less than a month away  — Feb. 3 — and the Gators currently have the No. 8 recruit-ing class in the country, according to 247Sports. The class has 25 commitments with 10 already on campus as early enrollees, including Mark Thompson — the No. 1 JUCO running back in 
the country — and the No. 1 JUCO kicker in Eddy 
Pineiro. Two other commits — four-star quarter-back Feleipe Franks and four-star athlete McAr-thur Burnett — are expected to arrive on campus 
later this week.
In addition, former Purdue quarterback Aus-
tin Appleby announed via his Twitter account on 
Monday that he would be transferring to Florida. Because Appleby is a graduate transfer, he is eli-
gible for the 2016 season.
McElwain talked about restoring the founda-
tion of the program on numerous occasions this 
season. But now the challenge that he faces is continuing to build upon a season in which the Gators were surprise contenders in the SEC East.
Florida won’t be a surprise team next season.It will have a target on its back, and the pres-
sure surrounding McElwain will be immense.
The question is, will he be ready for it?“We’ve got a ways to go,” McElwain said. 
“We’re on our way to building something spe-cial.”FOOTBALL,  from pg 19Florida's 2016 
recruting class 
is ranked No. 8
ty good. Our defensive numbers are very 
good,” White said.
“When we approach games where that’s 
our mindset, to be as good as we can be defensively and on the glass, we’ve played better.
 "When we’ve approached games where 
we spent too much emphasis on offense …when we’re thinking about scoring and we’re thinking about ‘I wonder how many shots I can get tonight?’ or ‘how many I can score?' Certain things like that with an in-experienced team, it has set us up for poor performances in the past.”
Unlike its offense, Florida’s defense has 
been impressive. 
The Gators are holding opponents to 62 
points per game, 19th best in the country, and have a scoring margin of +11.5. 
Florida held then-No. 1 Michigan State 
to 58 points on Dec. 12, still a season low for the Spartans. 
The Gators also limited then-No. 17 Mi-
ami to 66 points on Dec. 8, a season low for 
the Hurricanes. 
So the defense has been strong through 
the Gators' non-conference schedule, and 
White knows it’s been the most consistent 
component of this young team. 
Florida also ranks 16th in the country 
with 42.6 total rebounds per game and is 
forcing 13.7 turnovers per game with a 
+3.2 turnover margin so far this year. 
White said it would be foolish for the 
team to depend on its field goal and three 
point percentages, and that a consistently strong defense will be needed as Florida  treads into SEC waters and, perhaps, into tournament play later in they year.
“We have good guys. Are we a great 
team? No. But we feel like we have a pretty good team that’s continuing to improve,” White said. 
“We think that we have a chance, with 
continued development, to be pretty good.”HOOPS,  from pg 19Gators are holding opponents to 
62 points per game this seasonWhile they did lose valuable 
upperclassmen to the MLB Draft 
— including outfielder Harrison 
Bader, shortstop Richie Martin 
and third baseman Josh Tobias — RBI machine JJ Schwarz and the rest of the team’s young core 
is another year older and another 
year more lethal.
Add on the nation’s No. 2 
ranked recruiting class according to Baseball America, and 2016 
should be an exciting year at 
McKethan Stadium.
In addition, Lacrosse finished 
the year as Big East Champi-
ons, men’s and women’s tennis 
both reached the NCAA tourna-ment, and track and field, swim-ming and diving, and golf have all brought in strong recruiting 
classes to try to improve on their 
mostly successful seasons last year.
So, Gator fans, football may 
be over, but don’t stop paying attention to Florida athletics.
You may miss something 
amazing if you do.COLUMN,  from pg 19
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
UF's Bridget Sloan celebrates with teammates after scoring a 10.0 on bars during the 2015 South-
eastern Conference Championships in Duluth, Georgia.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF's John Egbunu grabs a rebound during Florida's win against Georgia on Saturday.
“W e have good guys. Are we a great 
team? No. But we feel like we have 
a pretty good team that’s continuing 
to improve. W e think that we have a 
chance, with continued development, to 
be pretty good.”
Mike White
UF coachTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   21  
22   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
Michigan running back De’Veon Smith (4) carries the ball during Florida’s 41-7 loss to Michigan in the 
Citrus Bowl on Friday in Orlando. 
ABOVE:
UF quarterback Treon Harris (3) passes during the first half. 
BELOW: 
Florida fans hang their heads in disbelief during the game. 
Michigan safety Jarrod Wilson intercepts a pass from Florida quarterback T reon Harris (not pictured). 
Citrus Bowl Beatdown
Photos by Emily Cochrane / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   23
PLAYER SENDOFFS
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
ORLANDO — This wasn’t the way Vernon 
Hargreaves expected to end his Florida career.
Not only were the Gators demolished 41-7 
by Michigan in the Citrus Bowl, but Harg-
reaves, who is regarded as one of the best 
corners in the nation, was also at the mercy 
of Michigan wide receiver Jehu Chesson on two separate occasions in the ﬁ  nal game of his collegiate career.
Chesson made Hargreaves look silly in the 
second quarter when the Wolverines dialed up a double-move for him. Hargreaves bit on the move and was left in the dust as Michigan quarterback Jake Rudock found Chesson for a 
31-yard touchdown. 
Florida coach Jim McElwain had warned 
his players to watch out for double-moves 
during the week, but Hargreaves didn’t see it coming, and it put Michigan up 14-7. 
Hargreaves’ second miscue came in the 
third quarter when Chesson beat the All-American corner at the line of scrimmage and Rudock found him again, this time for a 45-
yard gain.
Just like the rest of UF’s defense in the 
bowl game, he lacked the energy that the unit 
brought the entire season.
“I would think he would be disappointed. You know, it happens. Great corner, still the best corner,” Gators cornerback Jalen Tabor 
said. 
“But sometimes teams use your aggression 
to their advantage.”Before the season started, Hargreaves said 
at Southeastern Conference Media Days that the NFL Draft was the ﬁ  rst thing on his mind. 
He was anticipating that he would duplicate the success he had in his ﬁ  rst two seasons and then declare for the draft. 
However, there were times this season 
when Hargreaves just didn’t look like the same player he was during his ﬁ  rst two years at Florida. 
Even though he set a new career-high with 
four interceptions this season, the number of pass breakups he had this year went down.
After breaking up a combined 24 passes in 
his freshman and sophomore seasons, he had just four this year.
Some of that can be attributed to the emer-
gence of Tabor opposite of Hargreaves, but even then, Hargreaves seemed to struggle in ways he never did as an underclassman.
He also dealt with injuries, missing the 
East Carolina game because of a hamstring injury and exiting the Gators’ 20-14 win over Florida Atlantic early because of a stomach virus.
“It’s not like I’m Superman or anything. 
Everybody has injuries,” Hargreaves said af-ter the SEC Championship Game.
But even after his down season, Harg-
reaves was still named a unanimous ﬁ  rst-team AP All-American despite being outshined by Tabor the entire season. 
And on Monday afternoon in an Instagram 
post, Hargreaves said that he will indeed en-
ter the 2016 draft. 
He’s still projected to be a ﬁ  rst round pick, 
even though this season wasn’t up to the 
standards he set in his ﬁ  rst two years.Hargreaves struggles against Michigan, readies for NFL Draft
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff 
UF cornerback Vernon Hargreaves kneels in the endzone for a touchback during 
Florida’s 41-7 loss to Michigan in the Citrus Bowl on Friday in Orlando.
MCGEE INJURED HIS 
HAMSTRING IN PRACTICE
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
ORLANDO — Jake McGee’s time 
on the ﬁ  eld during No. 19 Florida’s 
41-7 loss to No. 14 Michigan was lim-ited to the opening coin toss.
After two seasons with the Gators 
— the ﬁ  rst spent on the sidelines with a broken leg, the second catch-ing passes — McGee’s college career came to an end one game early.
A hamstring injury suffered dur-
ing the week forced the sixth-year senior and Virginia transfer to sit out the only bowl game he ever traveled to.
But that didn’t stop McGee from 
being an essential cog in Florida’s offense during his short time in Gainesville.
“It really asked me to do a lot,” 
McGee said, “and ... I really think I was able to continue to grow my game and really step up.”
While McGee only played one full 
season with the Gators, his presence 
was felt almost immediately.
Even when he was relegated to 
the sideline, McGee’s upbeat person-
ality and ability to mentor Florida’s up-and-comers paid dividends for the Gators and for himself.
After fully recovering from his 
broken leg and receiving a waiver from the NCAA for a sixth year, the 24-year-old McGee provided a vet-eran presence to a youthful offense 
and served as a security blanket for 
quarterback Tre-
on Harris down the stretch.
He ﬁ  nished 
fourth on the team with 381 re-ceiving yards and four touchdowns 
on 41 catches — 
the most by a UF 
tight end since Jordan Reed in 2012.
“(He’s) a guy that both sides of 
the ball really respect,” UF coach Jim McElwain said earlier in the season. “To do that in such a short time I think speaks volumes for him and what kind of guy he is.”
Florida’s top tight ends coming 
back next year — a duo in sopho-
more DeAndre Goolsby and redshirt 
freshman C’yontai Lewis — learned under McGee over the past two years and feel prepared to take on the extra responsibility thanks to his mentor-ing.
Goolsby recorded 17 catches for 
277 yards and a touchdown this year but had two badly timed drops on 
Friday. Lewis scored a pair of touch-
downs in the season opener against New Mexico State but fell ﬂ  at as the season progressed while he recov-ered from a broken hand suffered against East Carolina.
“He’s basically told us, ‘Get ready 
for next season,’” Goolsby said. “He’s been trusting us all year when we play.”
With his UF career over, McGee 
will begin his path to the NFL Draft. He accepted an invitation to the Jan. 30 Senior Bowl and has a strong chance to be invited to the NFL Com-bine.
And while he prepares for the 
next chapter of his football career, he knows the Gators will be prepared for theirs as well.
“Just the practices where we 
weren’t really there, where we were watching from outside or the other ﬁ  eld, you really saw what the next sort of future is capable of and you see new leadership step up,” McGee said. “It’s nice to set sort of like the blueprint for what they’re able to do.”
Despite missing ﬁ  nale, tight end made lasting impact
McGee
24   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2016
