We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 154 THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
UF players looking forward to draft
Alonso is expected to be picked, pg. 18
UF graduate writes book inspired by crime
He was arrested for smuggling 23 metric tons of weed, pg. 5
Summer meals program adds mobile sites
Local children can receive free food, pg. 9Alumni create virtual reality game
It teaches Newton’s Three Laws of Motion, pg. 9
Alumni create virtual reality game
 pg. 9
THE LIFESOUTH 
BLOOD CENTER 
EXPERIENCES A 
DECREASE IN 
DONATIONS DURING 
THE SUMMER TERM.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Tuesday is World Blood 
Donor Day, and LifeSouth is 
celebrating with a superhe-
ro-themed, weeklong blood 
drive.
Bloodmobiles will be on 
Turlington Plaza, Monday 
through Friday from 10 a.m. 
to 5 p.m., said Laura Bialeck, the LifeSouth North Florida district community develop-ment coordinator. 
“This year’s focus is on 
ﬁ  rst-time and young blood donors,” she said. “It was perfect to introduce on cam-
pus.”
Each mobile blood center 
contains snacks, juice and T-shirts for all donors, she said. 
Each donor can provide 
blood every 56 days, Bialeck 
said.
Donors will be entered 
to win prizes each day, in-cluding restaurant gift cards, theme park tickets and a full makeover from Eden Michele Salon, she said. Anyone who 
donates in June will also be 
entered to win a new scooter from Campus Scooters. 
During the Summer semes-
ter, the center suffers a dra-matic decrease in the amount of blood donations, she said.
“There just aren’t enough 
donors on campus during 
the Summer,” she said. “We 
struggle to get 10 donors a day.”
Only 5 percent of eligible 
donors choose to donate blood, she said. 
“The No. 1 reason peo-
ple won’t donate is because they’re afraid of needles,” Bi-
aleck said. “Every time I do-
nate there’s always that mo-ment of apprehension.”
Matthew Elias, a UF indus-
trial and systems engineering fourth-year, said he has given blood eight times.
“People need blood,” he 
said. “It’s a simple thing, and 
if I can provide that, then 
why not donate?” 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org Blood bank to host themed drive
CAMPUS
SOME STUDENTS HAVE HAD 
THEIR CLASS SECTIONS 
CANCELED AND SWITCHED 
AS A RESULT.
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students will have to wait an-
other semester to use the new chem-
istry building.
After nearly two years of con-
struction, labor shortages this year have caused a delay in development, 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said.
According to Alligator archives, 
the building was scheduled to open 
in the Fall. It is now scheduled to open in the Spring, she said. 
The company with the lowest bid 
to complete the brick installation dropped out shortly after the proj-ect began, and a second company also dropped out, Sikes wrote in an email.
“And because of an uptick in the 
economy and construction projects nationally, demand rose for these specialty workers, which made it difﬁ  cult for us to ﬁ  nd a replacement company,” she wrote. “As a result, the project fell behind.”
Students scheduled to take Or-
ganic Chemistry Laboratory in the new building had their sections can-celed and switched because of the delay, wrote Tammy Davidson, the UF Department of Chemistry’s un-dergraduate coordinator in an email to enrolled students on May 5.
The department chose to rebuild 
the schedule rather than canceling registration for 40 percent of stu-dents, Davidson wrote.
UF chemical engineering junior 
Jennifer Lewis said her section was switched.
“I’m really grateful they made the 
time to switch everyone’s schedule, but it’s kind of annoying because I got my spot when I wanted it,” the 19-year-old said. “They didn’t give us options; they just kind of put us in another spot.” C hemistry 
building delayed
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Paige Fry
Alligator Contributing Writer
During Tuesday night’s meeting, the Senate 
voted on Student Body President Susan Web-
ster’s Supreme Court nominees, which includ-
ed Christopher Tribbey as Supreme Court chief 
justice and John Angstadt-Shearer, Ashlyn Robinson, Meagan McCarthy and Travis Allen for Supreme Court associate justices.
All of Webster’s nominations to Supreme 
Court passed unanimously. 
This is a contrast to attempts made by pre-
vious Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines, whose Supreme Court nominees were 
challenged in the Senate, according to Alligator 
archives.
Webster said the applications for Supreme Court justices were open for two-and-a-half weeks, and she received 30, about twice as many as in the past.
Webster phone-interviewed each applicant 
before deciding on her nominees, she said.
“I made sure I asked them all the same 
questions, asking them about what they be-lieved what the job of the chief justice was and truly making sure that they were an impartial person throughout the whole process,” Web-ster said.
During the Senate’s public debate, gradu-
ate student Max Stein urged the Senate to keep graduate student compensation and diversity in mind. 
Hallie Zimmerman, the president of Innova-
tion Academy Ambassadors, invited the Senate to work with Innovation Academy to help the university become a top-10 school.
Wayne Selogy, the Online Voting Imple-
mentation Ad Hoc chair, said the code is still being worked on to set up online voting in the Fall. 
A resolution supporting Alachua County 
Veterans Services and the Gainesville commu-nity in repairing the Alachua County Veterans Memorial in Kanapaha Park passed unani-
mously. In April, someone smashed a pillar 
that recognizes veterans who died since 9/11.  Supreme Court nominations pass unanimously
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
BLOOD IN THE BAG
Amanda Iaryea, 23, looks over 
at Andy Crews, a blood donor technician, to see how to squeeze her ﬁ  st while she gives blood for the ﬁ  rst time in the LifeSouth van by Century T ower on Wednesday. The UF Summer graduate student, who’s working toward a master’s degree in public health, said she decided to donate because she saw that the center is in a time of emergency need.
SG received 30 applications
“I made sure I asked them all the same 
questions, asking them about what they 
believed what the job of the chief justice 
was and truly making sure that they 
were an impartial person throughout 
the whole process.”
Susan Webster
Student Body presidentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  70°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host an event 
themed “When I Met You in the 
Summer” this Friday from 8 p.m. 
to midnight in the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature outdoor 
lawn games, friendship bracelets, 
caricatures, a photo booth and an 
outdoor grill-out with hamburg-
ers, hotdogs, veggie burgers and s’mores dip. The event will also 
feature two showings of the mov-
ie “10 Cloverfield Lane” at 8 p.m. 
and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. Free bowling and 
pool tables will also be a part of 
this GatorNights event. The event 
is free for UF students with their 
Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current students to participate or 
registered for future Summer B or 
Fall classes. Students are allowed 
to bring a maximum of one guest 
to the event.
Just in Time Virtual Career Fair
UF’s Career Resource Center’s Just 
in Time Virtual Career Fair will be 
held online Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. and is a great fit for UF 
online and on-campus students. 
The fair provides students with an 
opportunity to meet and connect 
with employers virtually about 
their careers and internships. If 
you’re about to graduate in the 
next couple of semesters, studied 
abroad or did internships during the past year and couldn’t attend 
an in-person fair, or if you are an alumni looking for new opportuni-ties, consider participating in this 
fair. It is open to all majors and de-
gree levels. For more information 
on registration visit crc.ufl.edu.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Movie on the PondReitz Union Board Entertainment 
will be hosting Movie on the 
Pond, a free movie event, today 
at 8:30 p.m. at the Reitz Union 
Amphitheater. The event will fea-
ture a free screening of the film 
“Zootopia,” and free popcorn and 
snow cones will be served.
2016 UF International Piano 
FestivalTwenty-five outstanding pre-
college and college pianists from 
six countries will gather at the UF 
School of Music Saturday through 
18 for the 2016 UF International 
Piano Festival. The annual event 
features students from around the 
world who come to UF to study under teachers from across North 
America and China. The public is 
invited to attend free, daily master 
classes and recitals. To learn more 
about this year’s festival and for a 
daily schedule of events, visit arts.
ufl.edu/calendar.
The Alachua WIC Farmer’s 
MarketHeld every Friday through Oct. 7 
in the parking lot of the Alachua 
County Health Department, lo-
cated at 224 SE 24th St., from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m. Stop by and sup-
port local farmers, and choose 
from a variety of seasonal fruits and vegetables at great prices. It is 
open to the public, and these ven-
dors accept cash or WIC (Women, 
Infants and Children) Farmer’s 
Market coupons. If you don’t 
know about us already: WIC is a 
nutrition program that provides healthy foods, nutrition education, 
breastfeeding support and refer-
rals to health care, immunizations 
and other community services. If 
you’re pregnant, breastfeeding or 
have a child under the age of 5, 
you may qualify for WIC benefits. 
For more information, call WIC at 
1-800-494-2543 to schedule an ap-pointment!
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to 
mgettenberg@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Mathews Silva, Donovan Vazquez,   
  Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 154
TECHNOLOGY
By Ryan Serpico
Alligator Contributing Writer
A new service called UZURV 
— pronounced “yew-zerv” — en-
ables riders to reserve Uber or Lyft drivers ahead of time, and Gainesville residents can now use 
the app. 
When users open the app, they 
get the standard Uber or Lyft app 
options, such as setting pickup and drop-off locations. 
Once they confirm their routes in UZURV, they can choose a new set of options, including pickup time, pickup driver and car ame-
nities. 
For its service, the app cur-
rently charges a discounted rate 
of 99 cents per ride. 
Two former Richmond, Virgin-
ia, Uber drivers created UZURV in August 2015 after they found ride-sharing service users wanted a way to reserve their drivers 
ahead of time. 
“I saw the gaps that I thought needed to be filled and could be 
filled with a separate app to bring drivers and riders together, es-
pecially in the dead zones where 
there’s not often Uber cars avail-able,” said Matt Donlon, a co-founder and the CEO of UZURV. 
In addition, the creators add-
ed a VoiceOver feature, which received rave reviews from the blind and visually impaired com-munity, Donlon said. VoiceOver 
is an accessibility feature includ-
ed on the iPhone that tells users what is on their screens.
Chris Sost, a Gainesville Uber 
driver, said he helped bring 
UZURV to Gainesville when one 
of the app’s operations managers contacted him on Facebook. 
Sost said the app is helpful for 
drivers, too, as it lets them know where riders want to be dropped off before they are picked up. 
“This is being built from the 
perspective of what’s awesome 
for drivers, which is knowing 
where you’re going,” he said. Uber reservation app arrives in GainesvilleFeatures included 
with UZURV
• Allows riders to set 
pickup times
• Enables riders to reserve particular drivers
• Lets riders tip their drivers
• Notifies drivers where 
their riders would like 
to be dropped offTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
LOCAL
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
As a Floridian, Adrian Kern said 
Tropical Storm Colin was not the 
first storm he’s faced.
“I thought it was going to be 
much worse,” the 20-year-old UF business management sophomore said. “I guess you have to be careful and be prepared for situations like this.”
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
said the university and its emer-gency manager monitored Colin throughout the weekend and felt the weather was not bad enough to cancel classes.
“We were pretty confident that 
we would receive some rain and maybe some wind, but not overly severe weather,” Sikes said.
Colin created winds of 50 mph 
when it came ashore in Taylor County on Monday evening, UF meteorologist Jeff Huffman wrote in an email. “There is some lingering mois-
ture in South Florida from Colin, 
and that might continue to produce 
some heavy rain through Friday,” 
Huffman wrote.
Gainesville’s buses also contin-
ued to operate amid the storm, Chip 
Skinner, the department marketing 
and communications supervisor for 
Regional Transit System, wrote in an email. The buses only stop run-ning when the wind reaches a con-
stant speed of 35 mph. 
Kern said several people can-
celed their reservations at the hotel 
where he works, and that UF prob-ably should have been closed. 
“I know a lot of people who 
had exams that day or the next day that either weren’t able to study or couldn’t make it to school,” he said. “I just think it posts a hazard to stu-dents.”
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.orgTropical Storm Colin fails to halt Gainesville’s operations
Courtesy to the Alligator
In the aftermath of the weather from Tropical Storm Colin, a twin-engine plane with two occupants lies in a ditch off the runway at Gainesville Regional Airport after skidding more than 1,000 feet on Monday night, according to a Gainesville Fire Rescue emergency incident report. The pilots on board were unharmed, and the plane was removed from the runway, according to the report.
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville native and UF 
alumnus wrote a novel based on 
his experiences growing up in Gainesville and his life as a drug smuggler. 
The book is about an aging man 
who goes to Costa Rica on vacation and gets caught up in a drug smug-gling ring, said Phillip Haveard, the book’s author.
A lot of the influences come 
from Gainesville in the ’60s, he said. 
During his time studying philos-
ophy at UF, Haveard, 68, said he 
sold marijuana to pay for school, 
which brought him into the dan-gerous world of drug smuggling.
“It was very loud and open,” he 
said. “The hippie revolution was going on. Drugs were everywhere, and everyone was taking them.”
During his career, Haveard was 
arrested for smuggling 23 metric tons of marijuana in North Caro-lina — although, in his book, he changed the location to South Car-
olina, he said. 
After spending a year-and-a-half 
in federal prison, he said he walked 
away from drugs entirely. 
“I was going down a bad path,” 
Haveard said.Haveard said so many aspects 
of the book are pulled from his per-sonal life, it’s almost an autobiog-raphy.
In total, about 80 percent of the 
novel is autobiographical, includ-
ing the primary locations of the 
story, he said.
Haveard said he wrote the book 
while on vacation in Costa Rica, finishing the novel in more than two months during evenings on the beach. 
Haveard said he doesn’t want 
the book to be viewed as a direct retelling of his life, however. 
“I want people to keep an open 
mind; things aren’t always what 
they seem,” he said.
The book will be released for 
purchase on June 18.
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org UF alumnus authors novel about drug smuggling
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Balls bar’s general manager will 
spend nine days in the Alachua 
County Jail after a judge found him guilty of his second DUI on May 25. 
Timothy Blakey, 30, was booked 
into jail Wednesday at noon, and he will remain there until Friday, according to Alachua County court records. He is required to pay about $1,500 in fees, and he will serve the rest of his sentence a few 
days at a time in the coming weeks.
Eighth Judicial Circuit Judge De-
nise Ferrero also revoked Blakey’s 
license for five years, according to court records. In the future, a 
breathalyzer will be installed in his 
car for one year.
He is not allowed to drink alco-hol or use drugs, according to the records, and he will be randomly tested for both. Blakey must also 
successfully complete the Ad-
vanced DUI Substance course.
On Dec. 29 at about 1:07 a.m., 
Blakey drove past a stop sign and then drifted from side to side with-
in his lane, catching the attention 
of University Police, according 
to a police report. He then drove through a four-way stop, causing 
the police to pull him over. 
Blakey told an officer he was 
traveling from Balls, located at 1716 W. University Ave., where 
he drank two or three shots, ac-
cording to the report. The officer noted Blakey’s bloodshot eyes 
and slurred speech, along with the 
smell of alcohol on his breath.
Police arrested Blakey on a charge for driving while under the influence of alcohol after he per-formed poorly on a field sobriety 
test, according to the report.
Authorities took Blakey to the 
UF Police Department, where he 
registered .138 and .131 on a breath test, according to the court report. 
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org Judge finds Balls bar manager guilty of second DUIThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.ColumnDear readers, we’re nearing the end. Five weeks into 
Summer A. It’s already almost over: crazy, right? It’s time to 
hit the books and try to pull some miracles in these classes 
so that we can all go back to enjoying what summer is truly 
about… never-ending rain?
Darts & Laurels
Seriously, what’s up with this Tropical Storm Colin?
Tuesday, residents of St. Pete Beach were asked to stop 
flushing the toilet, taking showers, doing laundry, etc. be-cause Colin’s rains caused the sewer pipes and pump sta-tion to overflow, resulting in sanitary waste pouring out of manholes and onto city streets. Mother Nature has literally had enough of our shit. She wants us to taste our own medicine.
So, we give a dart to Colin for these horrid weather 
conditions. Thanks a lot, Colin. Maybe it’s time we build a wall around hurricanes and make everyone named Colin pay for it.
Now, in political news, honestly there’s so much to talk 
about. And as much as we’d love to discuss the Demo-
cratic primaries, you’re bound to get bombarded with that 
topic all weekend.
For now, let’s focus on something you may not hear 
in the news: Iowa State Sen. David Johnson. Tuesday, Johnson changed his voter registration from the Republi-
can Party to “no party.” In light of Donald Trump’s recent 
racial onslaught against Judge Gonzalo P. Curiel, Johnson told reporters, “I will not stand silent if the party of Lin-
coln and the end of slavery buckles under the racial bias 
of a bigot.”
This may seem strange at first, but we at the Alliga-
tor want to extend Johnson a laurel for his bravery and 
courage. The poor man no longer felt comfortable in his 
own skin. Are we to brandish him for wanting to embrace 
who he really is politically? If Johnson is finally deciding 
to come out of the closet to embrace his true gender flu — 
uh, politically fluid — identity, we should commend his 
heroism. Let’s just hope he can find a bathroom in North 
Carolina. 
Lastly, we want to give you, the readers, a special sur-
prise. Your own laurel! Why? Well, just because. Life is 
too short. And let’s get real for a bit: We all know col-
lege is supposed to be the time of our lives, but let’s not 
discount that it’s also really, really tough at times. We’re 
faced with so many daunting responsibilities and transi-
tions, so many seemingly life-altering decisions and inces-
sant naggings as to what we’re doing with our lives, only 
to find that very few of us actually know the answers to 
these questions — which is OK.
So for those of you still reading, please enjoy this laurel 
and know we at the Alligator love you and believe in the 
beauty of your spirit and what you have to offer yourself, your loved ones and those around you.
Was that a bit idealistic? Yeah, sure — but ideals are 
what drive us forward. Without ideals, we’re nothing. Was 
it cheap? No, we strive to be genuine in our appreciation 
for the audience. Was it a bit of a random rant, the result of extensive overthinking? Maybe. In fact, let’s give a dart  
to overthinking for its potential to derail enjoyment of 
life’s simple pleasures.
For instance, maybe your power didn’t go out Tues-
day night when Colin decided to rampage your hometown while you typed out an editorial. Not all of our Alligator 
staffers were so fortunate. Damn it, Colin. Why you gotta 
be so rude?The U.S. ‘justice system’ is not doing its job
In light of the controversy around the Stanford rape case, it’s amusing to observe Americans wonder why there are many in our country who don’t have an ounce of respect for the justice system.
So I ask them, why should I respect and serve 
a bunch of clowns masquerading as defenders of the law?
Breaches of justice cycle through our equally 
pathetic corporate media and ceased long ago to appear random. We’re so failed by the structures above us that many are tempted to take the law into their own hands, knowing anecdotally that the “justice system” is a farce.
After all, when Judge Aaron Persky (with emphasis on 
his absurd title) decides he’ll go easy on a rapist so as not to ruin his life, what recourse do we have? How should we channel our rage? Where was the consideration for the vic-tim violently and publicly robbed of her dignity?
Lawyers and judges love the image of Lady Justice, with 
her blindfold, balance and sword. The joke’s on us for buy-ing into such a silly joke: She’s not blindfolded, she’s look-ing out for the interests of those who devised her image, and the side of the scale that tips lower does so perma-nently and intentionally.
Oppression is systematic, and the indignity it imposes is 
hardly accidental.
The same society that tells a pretty white boy he can 
take possession of a drunk girl’s body is the same society in which a judge decides that such an act of rape is relatively innocuous, the same society in which the convicted rapist’s father says “20 minutes of action” shouldn’t ruin his life.
It takes but a matter of seconds to discharge a weapon 
and destroy a life.
Again, rape is much more than 20 minutes of vicious 
cruelty and dispossession and much more than just that physical act. It’s the culmination of a lifetime (really genera-tions) of entitlement to everyone and everything in your path and the institutional reminder that some lives and bodies are disposable.
We saw with the media and justice system’s 
treatment of the alleged, then convicted rapist that he could never be found guilty of a crime in the truest sense of the word. This is to say they had to decide how guilty she was of a crime com-mitted against her, and how powerless he could be made to look in his own criminality. So they made sure we saw a handsome boy with a prom-ising future, one the judge too wanted to protect 
and for which he only gave him six months.  
Through the whole ordeal we’ve heard the voices of the 
judge, the rapist and his father, all shill and wholly pathetic. Corporate media, the propaganda arm of the State, thought we should hear their voices, be saturated in these narra-tives, which lets their privilege and cruelty continue un-checked, parading as normal moral action.
Granted, one triumph of social media and the internet is 
that we do have access to the voices of the powerless, the erstwhile silent, and in this case the victim’s statement in court was stirring and courageous and it should be voices like hers that shape our narratives and raise our conscious-ness.
To focus on her sentiments and give her the last word: “I 
hope that by speaking today, you absorbed a small amount of light, a small knowing that you can’t be silenced, a small satisfaction that justice was served, a small assurance that we are getting somewhere, and a big, big knowing that you are important, unquestionably, you are untouchable, you are beautiful, you are to be valued, respected, undeniably, every minute of every day, you are powerful and nobody can take that away from you. To girls everywhere, I am with you. Thank you.”
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Thursdays. 
THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
My gosh, it’s been hot these past few months. 
It must be from that El Niño. According to the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-tion (NOAA), 13 of the 15 highest monthly tem-perature anomalies have occurred since February 
2015. Unfortunately, Australia’s Bureau of Meteo-
rology declared El Niño ﬁ  nished on May 24. Op-ponents of the existence of climate change have blamed abnormalities, climate and weather since 2014 on El Niño. Now that it has ended, politi-cians may actually have to respond to Mother Nature.
The U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris 
last December was seen as a triumph in climate 
change policy for a better tomorrow. Basically, 
195 countries agreed on ﬁ  ve-year plans to keep the global increase in temperature at a threshold where humans could still live on this lovely plan-et. The problem is there was no real teeth to the agreement to hold countries responsible for their plans. Once foreign ministers returned home, idealistic solutions faced realistic obstacles. Many developing countries will be forced to choose between the environment and economic development, includ-ing India — the country that ranks third in carbon dioxide emissions. In 
the rich world, it is sad to say that 
neither China nor the U.S. hold pol-ished track records for people to be-lieve they will stick to their promises.
The U.S. can only directly govern 
the U.S., and a successful outcome of the Paris talks relies heavily on innovation and leadership from this country. Before the U.S. can start wagging its ﬁ  nger at other countries, it needs 
to get its own act together. If Earth is to provide 
a home for generations to come, the U.S. needs to make spending and policymaking on climate change the top priority today.
Many countries will struggle to keep promises 
made last November because technology is at a point where some of these goals prove impos-sible. Government leaders can only make policies with existing solutions. To increase their arsenal on ways to combat cli-mate change, the U.S. government has to change its mentality on re-search. The stigma between basic 
research and applied research origi-
nated from a 1945 report by Vanne-var Bush, head of the U.S. Ofﬁ  ce of Scientiﬁ  c Research and Development during World War II, in which he argued that government spending 
should focus on basic research because the ideas that show promise in applied ﬁ  elds will persuade private investors to bring newly innovated prod-
ucts to market. This mentality toward research 
has become obsolete. The days of scientists cook-ing up chemicals in a basement are over, but the dawn of multi-million dollar energy projects are upon us.
President Barack Obama has promised to tri-
ple the budget of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), where public funding for applied energy research would come from, to $1 billion by 2021. Obama should probably look to get this done before this upcoming November.
The debate on the existence of global warm-
ing has drawn out for years now. However, it 
doesn’t matter which side is right and which one 
is wrong; all that matters are the consequences of being wrong. If the proponents to global warming are wrong, society is driven to innovation where people are driving around in electric cars and us-ing other technologies that were only brought into existence by human creativity from the 21st century. If the opponents to climate change are wrong, Earth will be uninhabitable by 2030: 
game over for the human race. To play it safe 
rather than sorry, maybe we should start prepar-ing for the chance that opponents to global warm-ing are wrong, even if some see that chance as very small. You know, just in case.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineer-
ing sophomore. His column appears on Thurs-days. 
 With the onset of global warming, climate change talks will start againColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
By Cameron Cobb
Alligator Contributing Writer
After the recent attack on a lo-
cal pizza delivery driver in North-
west Gainesville, safety at Granada Apartments has become a greater concern.
Kelly Scott, a manager at Grana-
da Apartments, said the complex has lights all over the property, and she and another manager patrol the area regularly.
“We have put people out and 
asked them to leave because of things they are doing that we be-lieve may cause an issue,” Scott said. “If we see problems, we try and nip it in the bud right then and there.”Scott said during her five years 
on the property, nothing like this has ever happened. She said she be-
lieves this is an isolated incident but 
has asked for extra police patrol and surveillance. 
In response to the attack, the 
owner of the Five Star Pizza on Southwest Second Avenue made the decision to stop deliveries to Granada Apartments, said Travis Peterson, a manager at the restau-rant. 
He also stressed that drivers 
don’t carry very much money on them during deliveries.
“Anybody that’s thinking about 
robbing a delivery driver doesn’t re-alize how pointless it is,” Peterson said. “For just a little bit of money, you’re putting someone’s life at risk.”
Peterson said his advice for de-
livery drivers who may find them-selves in similar situations is to trust their instincts.
“If something’s telling you that 
something’s wrong, don’t second chance it,” he said. “You only have one life.”
Attack on local delivery driver raises safety awarenessBy Demi Wolfe
Alligator Contributing Writer
In less than a week, current UF students 
and alumni can network with employers in 
the comfort of their own bed. 
The UF Career Resource Center will host 
its second annual Just In Time Virtual Career 
Fair from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday, but the 
CRC encourages students to upload resumes 
and cover letters beforehand. Most registered companies will look for 
full-time employees, but others will likely of-
fer internships or undergraduate positions, said Monica Moreno, the CRC’s assistant di-
rector of industry relations.
“Dress up for your Skype interview if it 
helps your confidence and puts you in that 
right state of mind,” Moreno said, “but if you can stay in your PJs, and you can be profes-sional, then I say do what’s best for you.”Miranda McCown, a 21-year-old UF an-
thropology senior, said the first fair offered unexpected opportunities. 
“It really gave me a wide range of em-
ployers that I may not have even contem-plated pursuing before,” she said. 
About 900 students attended the first fair, 
which was meant to give more job opportu-
nities to students scheduled for graduation in 
Summer, Moreno said.
Taylor Petry, a 24-year-old UF tourism, 
recreation and management junior, said she 
prefers traditional career fairs. 
“I don’t think I can communicate as easily 
on a computer,” she said.
Information about the event and a link to 
the registration page is available at crc.ufl.edu/students/events-and-programs/just-in-
time-fair.CRC to host virtual career fair for UF alumni, students
Students can upload resumes beforehand
“...if you can stay in your PJs, and 
you can be professional, then I say 
do what’s best for you.”
Monica Moreno
assistant director of industry relationsTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Kelby Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Before maturing into a bil-
lion dollar industry, video games 
weren’t much more than distrac-tions. 
But today, games hold near-
endless possibilities. They can teach, inspire or tell a personal 
story. 
They can even teach the laws 
of physics.
Caitlin Kearney, 23, a recent 
graduate of UF’s digital arts and sciences program, teamed up with fellow graduates Sky Mar-
diat and Kyle Miller. Together, 
they made Newton’s Dream, a smartphone puzzle game made 
for virtual reality.
“Puzzles are one of those 
kinds of games that kids and 
adults can both enjoy alike,” Ke-
arney said.  They designed the puzzles to gradually teach new 
gameplay mechanics, so the play-
er is learning the game as it gets 
more difficult.
The goal of Kearney and the 
team was to convey and teach 
Isaac Newton’s Three Laws of 
Motion while also creating a fun and immersive experience. Kear-
ney said they consulted physicists 
and UF instructors when design-
ing the game. 
Newton’s Dream utilizes 
Google Cardboard, a $15 headset made to bring VR to smartphones 
affordably. 
“I wanted to make something 
using virtual reality and educa-
tion, as that’s where I see my ca-reer in,” Kearney said.
Each puzzle highlights a spe-
cific element of Newton’s laws 
and tests the player’s knowledge 
by using concepts derived from 
them. For example, an orb will move 
on a set path around the level, and the player must move sev-eral walls in three-dimensional 
space around them to make the orb bounce into the goal. This il-
lustrates the first law: An object 
will remain at rest, or continue to 
move at the same speed, unless 
acted upon by an outside force.
Drawing much of their inspi-
ration from Valve Software’s criti-cally-acclaimed 2007 game Portal, the team set out to take concepts from the game and mold them for more instructional purposes. 
“I think Portal is brilliant,” 
Kearney said, “and I wanted to bring that kind of brilliance to the side of the educator.”
The team hopes to release 
Newton’s Dream this coming 
fall. While the game currently is 
only available for Android, Ke-arney said the three of them are 
working to release a version for 
iPhones around the same time frame. After that, they wish to continue expanding upon the game’s content and eventually 
release it for desktop computers to be used with the more compli-
cated VR headsets, like the Ocu-lus Rift. 
Kearney said she thinks mak-
ing VR for games is small-minded 
and wants the technology used in 
therapy and medicine.
“I think virtual reality is going 
to become integrated with other things in our life,” she said.
UF alumni create virtual reality game
Kelby Martin / Alligator 
Caitlin Kearney, 23, a recent graduate of UF’s Digital Arts and Sciences program, smiles for a 
photo with virtual reality headsets. The headsets are used to play the smartphone puzzle game she created, which is called Newton’s Dream.
A RENOVATED BUS WILL  
SERVE FOOD AT THREE  
MOBILE LOCATIONS.
By Samantha Brittingham
Alligator Contributing Writer
This year, the Alachua County Sum-
mer Meals Program will host mobile loca-
tions for the first time. 
With three mobile sites, the program 
will offer children free hot meals right outside some of their apartment com-plexes.
The sites are being tested in high-need 
areas, said Caron Rowe, the food service specialist for the Alachua County School Board Food and Nutrition Services. 
The program aims to feed children 
while they aren’t in school. Children 18 years old and under are eligible to re-ceive free breakfast or lunch, and they do not need to provide any identification to 
qualify for the meals, Rowe said.
The program currently has 61 loca-
tions, including schools and mobile sites, 
for children to receive free meals.
Rowe said a renovated bus will serve 
the mobile locations. The bus will also play music and offer activities, such as hula-hoops and books. 
The mobile locations will be at Lin-
ton Oaks, Tower Oaks Glen and Hidden Oaks apartments, according to the school board’s website. 
“We know that there’s a lot of kids in 
need in that area,” Rowe said. “Our pri-
mary focus is making sure that we are ad-
dressing kids that could go hungry over the summer months.”Summer 
program to feed children10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
LEFT:
Kelsey Naylor, 28, cooks a pizza in a 
handmade oven crafted by the owner of Humble Pie, Brett Ader, at the Union Street Farmers Market on Wednesday afternoon.
RIGHT:
The owner of Jersey’s Creamery, Karen DeConna, 57, serves her fresh scoop 
of hand-crafted chocolate ice cream 
to Amancio Perez, 77, on Wednesday afternoon at the Union Street Farmers Market. 
A SLICE AND A SCOOP OF THE FARMERS MARKET  Photos by Alan Alvarez / Alligator StaffTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Hip-hop’s latest releases
Read reviews of music by Drake and more, pg. 14Q&A with local band Boyfriend Material
The Avenue spoke with the band’s frontwoman, pg. 13Courtesy to the Alligator
Lisa Unger, a New York Times Bestselling Author, will visit Gainesville on Saturday for a lecture and book signing. “Ink and Bone” is Unger’s latest in a line of psychological thrillers set in the Hollows, a town outside of New York City.
By RaSheba Jones 
Avenue Writer 
At 3 a.m., as the rest of the world sleeps, Lisa Unger is 
up at her desk writing her next New York Times bestselling novel.
The latest book to come out of this creative process is “Ink 
and Bone,” a psychological thriller set in the Hollows, a town outside of New York City. 
Unger will be in Gainesville to talk about her latest work, 
released just this week, Saturday at 2:30 p.m. at the Alach-ua County Library Headquarters Branch, according to Chris Culp, the public services division director. 
“We made a commitment to the community to bring na-
tionally renowned authors, with less bookstores around,” Culp said.
Finley Montgomery, a new character for Unger, is a wild 
child and has a gift she wishes she could return. Montgomery awakens in the Hollows, a town the author created after writ-ing her novel “Fragile.”
“Fragile” was published in 2010 based off a real-life event in Unger’s life. In high school, a girl she knew was abducted and killed. Throughout the years the experience stayed with 
her so strongly she wrote about it.
After the ﬁ  rst book was published, she felt the Hollows 
was developing a strong personality as a place where any-
thing could happen, even things that seem impossible. She 
started to obsess about this town. 
“Of course when that happens that means there is more to 
say, more to write about,” Unger said.
She began to explore the characters more, and the town 
with the world created itself along the way.
“As long as I am still thinking about it and wondering 
about it, it is going to end up on the page,” she said.
Characters created in Unger’s books come from her imagi-
nation, observation and sometimes versions of herself.
She was born in Connecticut but lived all over the world 
growing up because of her dad’s job. In college, Unger de-
cided to study writing and literature in New York and began 
her ﬁ  rst novel. After college, she stayed in New York and 
began to work for a publishing company.
“A few years into this publishing job I had an epiphany,” Unger said. “The only thing I wanted to do I wasn’t really doing anymore.”
The one thing Unger wanted to do was write, and it was 
slowly fading away.
“Five years or 10 years down the road I am going to have 
to look back and say, ‘You never even tried to do it,’ and I just couldn’t live with that,” she said. 
During this time, she became a closet writer dedicating 
her time to writing every day. Ten years later, Unger ﬁ  nally ﬁ  nished her ﬁ  rst novel, “Angel Fire,” which was published in 2002. 
Unger, who now lives in Clearwater, Florida, with her 
husband and daughter, tends to write within the psychologi-
cal thriller genre, which she said answers questions she has 
about the universe. 
As for those looking to follow in her bestselling footsteps, 
Unger advises, “The only thing you need to be a writer is 
write.” 
Associates from Books-A-Million will be at the library this 
weekend to sell Unger’s recent book “Ink and Bones.”Bestselling author Lisa Unger to visit Gainesville 
LITERATURETWO UF STUDENTS PAINTED THE 
WALL TO PROMOTE NEW YORK-BASED 
BAND MAYBIRD’S LATEST EP .
By Kirsten Chuba 
Avenue Writer 
Gainesville’s famous 34th Street Wall is getting 
some national recognition thanks to creative ad-
vertising by Sony’s college marketing representa-
tives. 
Rebecca Kravetz and Emma Magee, both UF stu-
dents working for Sony’s college division, painted 
the wall last week to promote New York-based 
band Maybird and its new extended play, “Turning 
Into Water.” They based the painting on the band’s cover art for the new EP. 
Videos and photos of the girls painting the wall 
have taken hold on social media and spread across Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. The video has been shared by Maybird itself, as well as by Co-lumbia Records, 30th Century Records and Sony Music U. 
As a result of the social media response, Kra-
vetz said the sales team at 30th Century Records is now in talks to set up a giveaway promotion in Gainesville for Maybird. 
The five-track EP was released April 29 by Sony, 
with “Turning Into Water” also being the biggest track on the album. It is available on iTunes, Ama-zon music and Spotify.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF students and Sony college representatives Emma Magee (left) and Rebecca Kravetz (right) pose 
as they paint the 34th Street Wall to promote Maybird’s new extended play, “Turning Into Water.”
34th Street Wall goes viral
LOCAL
By Paola Asencio
Avenue Writer 
A great way to start off the 
summer is by getting a taste of 
different cuisines from across 
the area.
The High Dive and Glory 
Days Presents will be hosting 
the Original Gainesville Food 
Truck Rally on Saturday, start-
ing at 5 p.m., located at the High Dive on 210 SW Second Ave., in downtown Gainesville.
The food truck rally will be 
raising money for Five Points Of Life, an affiliate organization of LifeSouth Community Blood Centers, dedicated to raising 
awareness of the five ways to 
share life with others through blood, apheresis, marrow, um-bilical cord blood and organ and tissue donation.
The event is free, and visi-
tors will be able to vote for their favorite food truck by donating money in the jar of their favor-ite truck. All donations will be 
going to charity, and the win-
ning truck will get a prize from a local sponsor. 
“I’ve been going to these 
food truck rallies for about 
two years now, and it never 
disappoints,” Nikolas Georgio, a Gainesville local, said. “You have to come with an appetite and a mood to eat food from 
burgers to tacos, and salads to 
brownies.”
The event will have live mu-
sic by Bobby Kennedy and Ju-
lien Kozak. Visitors will be able 
to participate in the rally’s first karaoke inside the High Dive.
The High Dive will be fully 
stocked with a beer, wine and 
liquor bar outside on the deck 
of the High Dive. Non-alcoholic drinks will be available from the tents in the parking lot.
This event requires no tick-
ets and is open to everyone of all ages, and well-behaved dogs are welcome as well.
There will be free street 
parking located around the area, and visitors also have the option of parking at the South-west Downtown Garage for $5.
“I would suggest bringing an 
open-mind. Some of the food can get eccentric and people can be a little standoff (sic),” Georgio said. “I was never a fan 
of vegan food until I tried a tofu 
burger, it made my tastebuds explode.”High Dive to host 
food truck rally
“You have to come with an 
appetite and a mood to eat 
food from burgers to tacos, 
and salads to brownies.”
Nikolas Georgio
Gainesville localBy Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
Boyfriend Material, a Gainesville 
band signed to Community Re-
cords, just released its ﬁ  rst self-ti-
tled extended play and has become quite popular on the local music 
scene. Frontwoman Shauna Marie 
Healey, who sings, plays guitar and ukulele, was a solo artist for several 
years before recently adding Chris 
Chaires, Rob Paradise and Robert Carter to the group. I sat down with 
her to talk about the band’s start 
and expansion into their EP. 
Kirsten Chuba: How did Boy-
friend Material get started?
Shauna Marie Healey: I origi-
nally started Boyfriend Material in 
2013 as a solo project. I released 
two full lengths and an EP, while also touring pretty extensively at 
the time. Since day one I wanted to 
add more members; however, that didn’t happen until almost a year 
ago. I moved to Gainesville two 
years ago and made new friends who were interested in trying the 
full band thing out with me. We just 
released our ﬁ  rst EP on May 27 as a full band! I am very excited about 
that! 
KC: How would you guys de-
scribe your sound?
SMH: This is always a difﬁ  cult 
question. We call it “mid-ﬁ  ,” which 
probably doesn’t make sense to 
most people! But I would say indie 
with a little bit of that new surf rock sound. 
KC: What has your show sched-
ule been like?
SMH: We have had a few shows 
the past couple of months, but we are taking it easy with touring for a bit until we can get the band more 
solid. We just had our EP release 
show on June 4, and we have a few shows coming up! 
KC: Can you talk about your 
new EP?
SMH: Yes! We released it as our 
ﬁ  rst full band album with Com-munity Records, a great label out of New Orleans. You can listen to 
it digitally on our Bandcamp or on the Community Records website. We also have it for purchase as cas-
sette or CD. We recorded it with lo-cal sound engineer Rob McGregor, 
who did a fantastic job! And the art 
was created by a local artist, Lau-ren Nicholas, after I saw her piece 
hanging up at an art show at Cu-
ria. I am very proud of the EP and happy that we can ﬁ  nally share it! 
KC: What do you guys think 
about the Gainesville music scene, particularly for local bands?
SMH: I think Gainesville has a 
great music scene. There are con-stantly shows pretty much every 
night to go to and are usually at 
an inexpensive cost. When I ﬁ  rst moved here, I was surprised at 
how many show offers I received 
so quickly. As a solo artist who no one knows, I wasn’t expecting 
much. I feel like it has been pretty 
welcoming. I’ve met my bandmates through the scene, and I’m happy with how much moving here has 
helped me grow as a musician. 
The band will be playing some 
local shows throughout July and will take part in Gainesville’s The 
Fest music festival in October. 
Know of any other local bands I 
should check out? Send Kirsten an email at kchuba@alligator.org.   Q&A: The Avenue speaks with Boyfriend Material
MUSICTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville band Boyfriend Material released its self-titled extended play last weekend.
Kirsten Chuba
Avenue WriterTake a sip when…
• Whenever Chelsea stares into 
the camera after a bad joke 
• Whenever Chelsea asks 
someone about their sex life
• Whenever Chelsea is wearing a 
band T-shirt and a pencil skirt
Take a shot when…
• Whenever a guest tries to pet Chelsea’s dog, Chunk, and he 
walks away
• Whenever someone forgets 
there’s no commercial break 
and there’s an awkward pause
• Whenever guests have to 
rearrange the order on the 
couch
Finish your drink…
• Whenever Chelsea comments 
on how much she drinks
• Whenever someone in the 
audience laughs at the wrong 
time
• Whenever Chelsea tries to rapHere I am, just a girl asking you to 
love this show as much as I do. 
A/f_t  er an almost two-year hiatus, 
Chelsea Handler is back on our televi-
sion screens (or more likely, computer 
screens) with a talk show. She ended 
her run on E! in the summer of 2014, 
and three weeks ago, she premiered 
her new show “Chelsea” on Net/f_l  ix. It 
brings a whole new feel and format to the tired talk-show style. 
In the promos, Chelsea says she’s treating this show “like the college education I forgot to get, ” and it really 
does feel that way. Even though we are 
getting a real college education (go 
Gators), there is still a lot of real-world 
things we have to learn, and this show 
really breaks down complicated topics 
so everyone can understand them. 
/T_h  ere are celebrity guests along with 
experts and doctors, but unlike most talk shows, they aren’t on the show just 
to promote their latest shows or mov-ies. She goes deeper with the celebrities, 
talking about hardships they’ve faced 
and causes they’re involved in, and it 
makes for a much more ful/f_i  lling inter-
view. 
All of this depth and education is 
also packed with Chelsea’s signature 
raunchy style, no commercials and 
her adorable dog running the stage. So 
please, watch this show, and to honor Chelsea and her hard-partying ways, 
here is a drinking game to go with:
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
This Friday, the critically-ac-
claimed documentary “Weiner” 
will hit the Hippodrome State 
Theatre for the ﬁ  rst time.
The ﬁ  lm recaps the events 
that lead to former Rep. Anthony 
Weiner’s fall from political grace after a sexting scandal was pub-
licized during his 2013 campaign 
for mayor of New York City. 
In 2011, while Weiner was 
serving as a member of Congress, 
inappropriate photos surfaced on 
Twitter of Weiner in his under-
wear. Many New Yorkers were willing to look past Weiner’s em-
barrassment and give him a sec-ond chance, but in 2013, when 
online sexual activity was linked 
to that mayoral candidate once 
again, he suffered a harrowing 
loss with only 4.9 percent of the 
democratic vote. 
Sarah Kunkler, the cinema di-
rector at the Hippodrome, said “Weiner” looked like a great doc-
umentary based on its reviews and recognition.
“At the Hipp, we always strive 
to bring in the latest indie ﬁ  lms, 
hard-hitting documentaries and 
critically-acclaimed world cin-
ema,” Kunkler said.
The documentary made its de-
but at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2016. After its pre-
miere, the ﬁ  lm made waves with critics and even earned a 95 per-
cent rating on Rotten Tomatoes, 
an online ﬁ  lm critiquing website, 
and has earned other accolades 
such as the U.S. Grand Jury Prize.
“‘Weiner’ looks like a great 
documentary and a hot topic that Gainesville will really enjoy,” 
Kunkler said.Anthony Weiner documentary to play at the Hippodrome
LOCAL14   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
NEW RELEASES FROM DRAKE, JUICY J AND MORE ff the Record
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
 
Drake – “4 PM in Calabasas” 
& “One Dance Remix ft. Justin 
Bieber”
A little over a month after 
“Views” dropped, Drake decided to hit us with a few new tracks on the latest episode of OVO Sound Ra-
dio last Saturday. Drake has a few 
songs that follow his song titles’ trend such as “9 AM in Dallas” and “6 PM in New York.” Drake rips this song,  and it’s an absolute must-
listen. Drake also played a remixed 
version of his No. 1 hit single “One Dance” with Justin Bieber jumping on the track. The “One Dance” re-
mix is great, and you’ll deﬁ  nitely 
want to take some time to listen to these two new Drizzy songs.
Gucci Mane – “Back on Road 
ft. Drake”
Gucci Mane is still fresh out of 
jail but wasted no time getting back in the studio. While he dropped “First Day Out Tha Feds” literally 
the day he got out of prison, Gu-
cci linked up with Drake on his new song “Back on Road,” which premiered on Drake’s OVO Sound Radio show on June 4. Gucci raps a couple verses with Drake on the hook, and the song is ﬁ  re.
Travi$ Scott – “Pick Up The 
Phone ft. Young Thug & Quavo”
Travi$ Scott has been one of 
the hottest artists over the past few years, and he dropped his new 
single “Pick Up The Phone” that 
features Young Thug and Quavo of 
Migos. The single is off his upcom-ing album “Birds In The Trap Sing 
McKnight,” which doesn’t have 
a release date yet but is rumored to drop soon. Travi$ simply can’t miss; especially whenever he teams 
up with Young Thug or the Migos. 
“Pick Up The Phone” is a dope song, and you should check it out.
G.O.O.D. Music – “Champi-
ons”
Kanye West conﬁ  rmed late last 
week that “Champions” is the ﬁ  rst single off his label, G.O.O.D. Mu-sic’s forthcoming album “Cruel 
Winter,” which is a sequel to the la-
bel’s “Cruel Summer” that came out back in 2012. The song has a num-ber of artists including G.O.O.D. Music artists Kanye West, Big Sean, 
2 Chainz, Travi$ Scott and De-
siigner, as well as non-label artists Gucci Mane, Quavo and Yo Gotti. The song is absolutely ﬁ  re, and it blew me away. I would have never thought Gucci Mane and Yo Gotti would be on a song with Kanye or 
G.O.O.D. Music but never say nev-
er, right? Take a listen ASAP, and get ready because it’s going to be a “Cruel Winter.”
Juicy J, Wiz Khalifa & TM88 – 
“TGOD Maﬁ  a: Rude Awakening”
Juicy J and Wiz Khalifa dropped 
their collaborative album with pro-ducer TM88 titled “TGOD Maﬁ  a: 
Rude Awakening” on June 3. Juicy 
J and Wiz have incredible chemis-try and constantly make great music together. Combine Juicy and Wiz’s compatibility with super-producer 
TM88, and you get an album full of 
bangers. Take a trip as you sit back and listen to this album.
Vic Mensa – “There’s Alot Go-
ing On”
Vic Mensa dropped his ﬁ  rst of-
ﬁ  cial extended play “There’s Alot Going On” on Friday. Vic Mensa was a part of the stacked 2014 
XXL Freshman Class and was soon 
signed to Jay Z’s Roc Nation record label. “There’s Alot Going On” goes hard, but Vic still speaks on con-
troversial topics such as police bru-
tality, gang violence and the Flint Water Crisis. Vic Mensa is a super dope artist, and if you’re sleeping on him you better wake up and lis-
ten to his ﬁ  rst EP before his album 
drops later this year.
Reviewing hip-hop hits
By Julia Nevins 
Avenue Writer
If there is one thing Gainesville 
residents can collectively agree on, 
it’s that there is a very dry season 
that comes around the time students 
pack up and leave for the summer. This dry period can leave those who call the ‘Ville home for the summer a tad frustrated. If you’re looking for something to do this weekend, then 
check out what’s happening.
Today: Alachua County Emerg-
ing Leaders June Happy Hour at 
Swamp Head Brewery 
Join the ACEL for its monthly 
social at Swamp Head Brewery to-
day starting at 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. 
The ACEL invites young profes-sionals to network with each other once a month at different local spots around the ‘Ville. Enjoy a cold one 
while building your professional 
network and meeting new people. 
Today: Band Roulette in the 
Backyard at Boca Fiesta & Palomino
If you’re into the musical scene, 
then head downtown to Boca Fiesta 
for another edition of Band Roulette. Four jars, one singer, one guitarist, one bassist, one drummer and a funky collaboration with an after-
midnight drawing. After each of 
the band members entered in Band 
Roulette are chosen, they have ﬁ  ve weeks to practice before the epic 
showcase on July 16. Entrance is $3 
starting at 10 p.m.
Saturday: Family Day at the 
Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art Fea-turing African Masquerades
If you’re itchin’ for some family 
time or are just in the mood to mo-
sey through the halls of an art mu-seum, then look no further than the Harn this Saturday from 1 p.m. to 
4 p.m. The event will feature tours 
of the African exhibitions “Elusive 
Spirits” and “Dancing in the Moon-
light: Zara Masks of Burkina Faso.” Activities will include mask-making fun for all ages. The best part? It’s free, although a $2 donation is en-
couraged.
Sunday: Retreat at Lake Wau-
burg 
This Sunday, UF’s Institute of 
Industrial and System Engineers 
and the Entrepreneurship Club will co-host an event at Lake Wauburg starting at 11 a.m. The event will have free food and activities with a chance for participants to meet oth-
ers interested in leadership oppor-
tunities on campus. Beat the sum-mer heat by the lake and cross your ﬁ  ngers that it doesn’t rain on your parade. The event runs until 3 p.m., 
and if you can’t ﬁ  nd transposition, 
carpooling is available.  What’s happening in 
GNV this weekend
LOCALBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
BEAUTIFUL VICTORIAN HOUSE  5 bed/ 2 bath, great downtown location.   2 balconies, wood floors,  great character.   320 NW 1st Street.  Call 352-377-3110, or email simp-sonm@ufl.edu.    6-9-16-6-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry....  1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        6-30-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Housemate wanted to share a lovely pool home in a beautiful safe area. You'd have 2BRs & pvt BA. Female preferred but not nec-essary. Call 352-214-6512 afternoons for more details.    6-30-6-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
US NATIONAL FOREST FRONT LIQUIDATION5 Acres $9,900!Pristine Preserve PropertyBorders the Country's Best Trail System!Call Today for a Preview Showing1-888- 270-4695      6-9-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
LP VINYL BLOWOUT SALE!
400+ records $2-$5 (or 10/$18): blues/ 50s r+r / country/1960-80 artist/ jazz/big band (+ 45s/78s). Waldo Antique Village, 17805 U.S. 301 (352.468.3111). BOOTH MJC. Show ad=10% off $20+ other MJC items (except "firm").    7-5-8-10Parrot Bebop Drone with Sky Controller deluxe 
package - $750 - Everything you need to get 
into aerial photography or video. Camera is 
1080p video / 14 Megapixal - Lots of extras - 5 batteries, standard charger, deck charger (can charge 3 batteries), FPV glasses with hdmi 
adapter and charger, back pack style case, 
10" iPad tablet display, sunshade, original 
box, extra props, manuals on DVD, flies great! - LOCAL SALE - CASH ONLY. Original cost over $2000 - Less than one year old! Text to 
352-258-1641 or email jim@fireline.org.    6-9-
1-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 7 Computers16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up And Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647    6-9-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Full time -plus over the summer
WordPress Website Developer 
Expertise in web development
and interface design
Strong knowledge in WordPress
Proficiency with responsive web design
SEO proficiency with friendly techniques
Ability to write website documentation
Experience with e-commerce
Active social media user
Experience with Adobe Creative Suite
Please forward your resume to
hr@gleim.com
6-28-16-6-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
FT Receptionist (on-the-job training avail.) Exceptional social & verbal communication skills. Polite & professional. Dependable, good work ethic, reliable transportation. Work Monday thru Friday. Great benefits. melissastandridge@gmail.com6-16-16-8-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
Small company seeking an individual for data entry position who has a strong work-ing knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, can manage general phone inquiries, and is able to work in a high-speed, multi-task environ -
ment. Experienced in working with databas -
es, and able to work well in a fast-paced en-vironment, be a team player, take direction, and have a keen ability to prioritize. This is a small office so team-work is also essential. Candidates should be personable and have a sense of humor. $9/hr. Email resume to: Staff@thekochfoundation.org      6-14-16-4-14Motorcycle Parts Personneeded Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9am-5pm and Sunday 11am-5pm. Must be a team player and have motorcycle endorse -
ment. We will train the right person but parts knowledge is a plus. Please email resume' to todd@gainesvilleharley.com    6-28-16-5-14
FT/PT Customer Service Representatives needed. Must be 18+, and have a computer with internet service and a landline tele-phone. Guaranteed at least 15 hrs/wk. Call 1(8444) 539-8735.    6-30-16-6-14
Legal ResearchReal Estate Area.
386-496-4550             6-9-16-2-14
ATTN: Drivers - $2K Sign-On BonusLove your $60K+ Job!Cool, Comfortable Miles100% APU TrucksCDL-A Req’d (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com     6-9-1-14
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired!Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA BenefitsNational Average $18.00-$22.001-866- 362-6497         6-9-1-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE      6-9-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price Lock-Lock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963      6-9-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429     6-9-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800- 224-0305     6-9-1-16The end of the termand the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099     6-9-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope & Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142     6-9-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers!Grads work with Airlines, Airports and OthersGET CERTIFIED in just 12 weeks withFAA approved trainingCall AIM 888-242- 2649     6-9-1-15
ACROSS
1 Two cents
4 Place for pews
11 Hubcap holder
14 NASDAQ news15 Awabi sushi
mollusk
16 Actress
Brenneman
17 Get-even
competition
19 “Tell Me More”
broadcaster
20 __ de Cervantes21 El stop: Abbr.22 City SSE of
Sana’a
23 Bath oil additive24 Kunta Kinte’s
country
26 Traffic slower29 Suffix in skin
product names
30 Pressure letters32 Usual
34 Tests using mice
38 They’re often
seen underhoods
42 “It’s __ simple”43 The other side of
midnight?
44 __ reaction45 Skated48 Crammer’s tablet
50 “I didn’t get that”
54 One of a Social
Security card pair
57 Problem for Lady
Macbeth
58 Unwritten parts of
some addresses
59 Scarlet letter, e.g.61 Babe’s environs62 Last-minute
interception, say,and a hint to thispuzzle’s circles
64 Torah holder65 Fallacious66 Cauliflower __67 “Street Dreams”
rapper
68 Droopy face
feature
69 Like about half
the counties inArkansas
DOWN
1 18th Greek letter2 4, at times3 Cry of support
4 Herb in a ballad5 Genesis brother
6 “We Were
Soldiers” setting
7 What stripes and
polka dots do
8 Added (up)
9 Free, as a bird
10 “Does nothing for
me”
11 Anita Baker
genre
12 1983 Pritzker
prize recipient
13 Loy of “Thin Man”
films
18 Fight with rules22 Mideast capital24 __ paper25 Tycoon 
Hammer
27 Its capital is
Luanda
28 Sushi topper30 Sports org.
founded in 1916
31 Co-star of James
and Natalie in“Rebel Without aCause”
33 Wise __
35 Went like
lightning36 Former French
coin
37 2003 retiree,
briefly
39 Positive point
40 Fifth state: Abbr.
41 Half a beverage
46 Reptile with a
“third eye”
47 Blocked, beaver-
style
49 God in both
Eddas50 Where to see the
House
51 Dvorák’s
“Rusalka,” for
one
52 Some ascetics
53 Rhone tributary
55 Sully
56 Bother no end
59 It’s about a foot60 Works on roads62 PX patrons63 Blubber
By Matt Skoczen©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/09/1606/09/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, June 9, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 15 Services 15 Services 16 Health Services 19 Connections
19 Connections
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Coach Mike Holloway and 
the UF track and field team competed in the NCAA Outdoor Championships.Read the story online at Alligator.org/sports. Florida women's basketball adds new recruit
Elif Portakal signed a National Letter of Intent to attend Florida, coach 
Amanda Butler announced Wednesday. Portakal helped win the Turkish 
national championship as a starter for the Galatasaray U18 and U16 teams.BASEBALL NOTEBOOK
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
By the end of the night, three 
Florida baseball players could be 
on their way to making millions. 
Foremost among them is A.J. 
Puk, the Gators’ left-handed start-er who’s projected by many to be the first overall pick in tonight’s 
draft. With an assigned value of 
$9,015,000 for the No. 1 slot ac-cording to MLB.com, Puk could potentially have enough money left over from his contact to make 
eight of his teammates millionaires 
as well. 
“As a hitter, you might wanna 
bunt," teammate Buddy Reed said 
of facing Puk. "And if you can’t do 
that, good luck.”
Reed and fellow pitcher Logan 
Shore could join Puk in the mil-lionaire club, as they will also 
likely hear their names called on 
Thursday night as one of the first 77 picks. 
But both of them come with ca-
veats. 
But when it comes to the draft, 
Shore’s accomplishments are dwarfed by Puk’s size — Puk is 6-foot-7 and throws in the high 
90s. Despite being Florida’s Friday 
night starter for the past two years and the 2016 Southeastern Confer-ence Pitcher of the Year, Shore is projected to go significantly later 
than his teammate because he 
doesn’t have the same raw tools, though his polished pitches and consistency have put him in the conversation as a late first-round 
pick. 
Reed is the opposite.
Once thought of as a definite 
first-round pick, the outfielder's 
hitting has dipped this season. 
However, coach Kevin O’Sullivan said on Wednesday there’s reason for whichever team drafts him to be optimistic. 
“Most players that leave col-
lege at 21 or so, they probably get close to their ceiling,” O’Sullivan said. “Buddy’s got — I don’t know 
where his ceiling’s at.”
Alonso heating up:
Peter Alonso will be watching 
the draft from his Tampa home. 
The Florida first baseman could 
join his three teammates in the first 77 picks, but it’s far from certain. 
“I just wanna be home, have 
a nice home-cooked meal and see what happens,” Alonso said. 
Injuries have plagued Alonso 
throughout his career, the most re-cent coming this past May when he fractured his hand against Vander-bilt. But that injury — like the ones 
he suffered before it — didn’t slow 
him down. 
He rebounded last weekend in Regionals, mashing three home 
runs and notching eight RBIs. 
Scouts likely won’t read much 
into his hot weekend, but Alonso 
said it might make a difference.
“It can’t hurt it,” he said. Mr. Irrelevant:With the 1,216th pick of the 2013 MLB Draft, the Washington 
Nationals selected Shaun Ander-
son. That made him "Mr. Irrel-evant," the nickname for the last player taken.
Anderson elected to forgo pro-
fessional baseball to play for Flor-ida instead. Three years later, Anderson is 
anything but irrelevant.
The 6-foot-5 righty has estab-
lished himself as UF's closer and has the team’s lowest ERA (1.05). 
He’s hoping that leads to a higher 
selection than last time. Florida players talk draft ahead of Super Regional 
A.J. Puk may go No. 1
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
A.J. Puk pitches during Florida's 10-7 win against T exas A&M on April 3 at McKethan Stadium. Most 
experts predict Puk will be the No. 1 overall pick of the 2016 MLB Draft.
AT LEAST FOUR PITCHERS 
WILL LIKEL Y BE SELECTED.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
As Florida prepares to face 
Florida State in the NCAA Super 
Regionals this weekend, one large 
distraction looms today: the MLB 
Draft.
Several UF players are pro-
jected to be drafted, highlighted 
by potential No. 1 pick  A.J. Puk. 
Here’s a breakdown of six Florida players that will likely land on an MLB club fairly early on in the draft. A.J. Puk, LHP  
Puk has been projected to be 
the No. 1 overall pick since Janu-ary, and the Philadelphia Phil-lies, who own the first pick, likely 
won’t stray from the experts.
Plenty of reasons make Puk 
the deserving No. 1 pick — he’s 
a 6-foot-7 lefty who can throw in the upper 90s, a combination that 
makes every professional team 
salivate. 
When he’s having a good day 
on the mound, he’s clearly the 
best pitcher in the county. His ca-
reer high in strikeouts is 12, which came against then-No. 6-ranked Vanderbilt on the road in a pivotal series win just before the 2015 postseason.
The week before, he struck out 
11 batters in six innings against Georgia on the road.
When Puk is on, he’s been 
nearly unhittable.
Buddy Reed, OFReed may also be selected in 
the first round, and would give the 
Gators two first-round selections 
in the same year for the first time since 2012.
While Reed isn’t a very pol-
ished hitter — he’s batting .255 this year, lowest among UF play-ers with at least 57 games played — he more than makes up for it in physical gifts.The switch hitter is an ultra ath-
letic outfielder, frequently leaping and diving for outs in centerfield over his three years at UF. 
He’s also one of the fastest 
base runners in the SEC — he was clocked at 3.9 seconds running from home plate to first base at last year’s SEC Championship.
Usually a reliable defender, 
he’ll provide highlight plays and base-running quickness in the pros. And if he can develop his hitting, Reed will find a home in 
majors.
Logan Shore, RHP
Shore may have to wait until Breaking down UF's top projected MLB Draft picksSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE DRAFT,  PAGE 19• When:
7p.m.
• Where to watch:  
MLB Network, MLB.com
• What:  
Rounds 1 and 2MLB Draftafter the ﬁ  rst round to hear his 
name called, in part because he doesn’t have the physical traits of 
Puk or an upper-90 mph fastball.
But in three years at Florida, he 
has been one of the most reliable 
starting pitchers in the nation, and 
teams are enamored with his con-
sistency. 
Shore’s teammates and coaches 
rave about his competitiveness, and while he may not have a slider 
that makes your head spin, he per-
forms his best when the pressure is the highest.
In the ﬁ  rst game of last year’s 
Super Regional against Florida State, Shore threw 5.2 scoreless innings and struck out ﬁ  ve batters in a 13-5 win.
A couple weeks prior, he struck 
out seven batters in Game 2 of the SEC Tournament against Auburn, saving Florida from elimination.
Peter Alonso, 1BIf any teams were doing some 
last minute scouting prior to the draft, there’s no doubt Alonso’s name came up in their meetings. 
Before the start of NCAA Re-
gionals last week, Alonso had been sidelined with a fracture in his left hand after being hit with a fastball against Vanderbilt on May 13. 
Three weeks later, he made his 
debut for Florida in the Gainesville Regional.
The result: three home runs, 
8-for-14 batting and eight RBIs. 
Alonso was named the Gainesville 
Regional Most Outstanding Player.
It’s clear what the junior will 
bring to the pros: power. He leads 
the nation’s No. 2-ranked team 
with a .368 batting average, 55 RBIs and 12 home runs.
His only downside is his below-
average speed. Florida placed him 
at ﬁ  rst base and Alonso has been 
solid at the bag, only collecting four errors this season while rank-ing third on UF with a .992 ﬁ  elding 
percentage.
The 6-foot-2, 225-pound right-
handed hitter will have time to 
develop in the minors before he’s called up to contribute.
Shaun Anderson, RHPAnderson has the lowest ERA 
on the team at 1.05 and has given 
up the least amount of hits (30) 
among players with at least 30 in-nings pitched. 
He also rarely walks batters, 
with just six in 43 innings.
Anderson is ﬁ  rst in the SEC with 13 saves and has 54 strike-outs.
Dane Dunning, RHPDunning has arguably been 
Kevin O’Sullivan’s most reliable weekday starter.The junior is usually effective 
when he takes the mound, strik-ing out 78 batters in 68.1 innings 
while compiling a 2.50 ERA.
He has also shown versatility 
in his time at Florida, relieving 
starters to ﬁ  nish out games, like in Florida’s 15-3 win over Miami in the 2015 CWS. 
The righty pitched the ﬁ  nal in-
ning to seal the win.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
“Just a couple (spots higher) 
would be nice,” he said. 
Gators looking past draft:
O’Sullivan knows the draft is to-day, and he wants his players to en-
joy the moment. 
But come Saturday’s Super Re-
gional game against Florida State, he said the moment needs to be left 
in the past. And that message has 
rubbed off on his players. “I’m not really worried about 
it too much,” Anderson said of the draft. 
Added Reed: “I’m excited for it, 
but I’m also excited for Super Re-
gionals and beating Florida State."
It’s clear that for this team and for O’Sullivan, making it to the College 
World Series is as important a mile-stone as almost any other. And he’s helping the players treat it as such.
“Everybody knows that they’re 
18 innings away from getting to Omaha, and there’s no other feeling like that, and everybody wants to get there in the worst way,” O’Sullivan said. “It’s our job and our responsi-bility to help these guys relax.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg 18Florida hosts FSU this weekend in the Super RegionalsDRAFT,  from pg 18Alonso leads UF with 12 home runs and a .368 batting average 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff 
Peter Alonso rounds the bases after hitting a home run during UF's 9-3 win over Bethune-Cookman.20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JUNE 9, 2016
