We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 75 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
Gators seeking consistency 
against volunteers 
UF split its last two games, pg. 13
Professional clothing closet open to students
It’s called Gator Career Closet, pg. 3
Police solve local robberies
There were ﬁ  ve robberies, pg. 5Back in the spring of things
Check out our photo story, pgs. 8-9
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@MelissaGomez004
When JeanCarlos Asencio got the 
email about UF’s drone procedures, 
he wasn’t surprised.UF sent emails to students about 
the rigorous process for operating a drone on campus, UF spokesman Steve Orlando said. 
Users must get certiﬁ  cation by the 
Federal Aviation Administration and get approval from UF’s Environmen-
tal Health and Safety Ofﬁ  ce. Students must also provide proof of insurance.
“We wanted to make sure they 
know what our procedures are and 
what they have to do to get clearance on campus,” Orlando said.
Students must contact the FAA if 
they want to receive certiﬁ  cation to ﬂ  y a drone, he said. While there have been no incidents on campus, Or-lando said UF wanted students to be 
aware of the policy to prevent injury.
Orlando said the email was to 
remind students who may have 
received a drone as a gift over the holidays of the requirements to ﬂ  y a drone on campus.
The FAA restricts drones from be-
ing within ﬁ  ve miles of an airport and two miles of a heliport.
Orlando said most of UF’s campus 
is near an airport or heliport, which 
may make it difﬁ  cult for people to be 
approved by the FAA.
Bill Properzio, director of the UF  UF reminds students of regulations on drones
SEE DRONES,  PAGE 4
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
As he addressed the subject of gun vio-
lence Tuesday morning, President Obama wiped tears from his eyes.
Standing in the East Room of the White 
House, Obama announced an executive order he hopes will stop the violence, with or with-out Congress.
The plan, he said, would expand criminal 
background checks and clarify pre-existing laws regarding private ﬁ  rearm sales, both on-line and at gun shows. It would also fund re-
search for mental health treatment.
Standing alongside gun-safety advocates, 
Obama ﬁ  red back at his critics, some of whom 
said his policy wouldn’t prevent criminals from obtaining guns.
“Each time this comes up,” Obama said, 
“we are fed the excuse that common-sense re-forms like background checks might not have stopped the last massacre, or the one before that, or the one before that, so why bother try-
ing?”
Each year, more than 30,000 Americans 
die from gun violence, he said. Gainesville reacts to Obama’s gun reforms 
SEE GUNS,  PAGE 4By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
costroﬀ  @alligator.org
@ceostroﬀ  
Beginning this semester, students will have 
a new safety app.
On Tuesday, UF announced the ofﬁ  cial 
launch of GATORSAFE, a free app, to provide 
safety services to students. University Police 
did a soft launch of the app Dec. 1 to ensure the app was working for Spring, said Wayne Clark, a UPD ofﬁ  cer.
The app, which costs UPD and Student 
Government $3,000 a year, allows students to text UPD and call police without notifying oth-ers, said UPD spokesman Maj. Brad Barber.
“You can send us photos, you can send us 
videos,” Clark said.
About 600 students have downloaded the 
app, which can also be used to contact U Mat-ter, We Care and UF’s Counseling and Well-ness Center, he said.
“There’s other things that are directly re-
lated to safety,” Clark said.
GATORSAFE replaces a previous safety 
app, TapShield, which cost $50,000. The app, 
created under former UF Student Body Presi-
dent Christina Bonarrigo (Unite), was stopped Nov. 30 after the company that created it stopped supporting its software, according to Alligator archives.
The new app will not have TapShield’s 
yank feature, Clark said, which allowed stu-dents to call UPD by yanking their headphones from their phones.
Travis Trout, a UF advertising junior, said 
the app allows him access to several UF ser-vices.
“This combines all the apps they told me 
to get at Preview,” the 21-year-old said. “It’s 
better than individual apps.”  UF launches 
new safety app 
 Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
OHIO FUNK
Jack Gould, right, plays the saxophone with his band Sassafraz at The Jam on Tuesday night. The six-man band from Ohio 
plays a blend of funk, hip-hop and soul music. 
CAMPUS“W e wanted to make sure they 
know what our procedures are 
and what they have to do to 
get clearance on campus.”
Steve Orlando
UF spokesmanThey could be unsafeSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Let 
it Glow themed event Friday 
from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the 
Reitz Union. The event will feature laser tag, a GloCade and a show 
from mentalist Scott Xavier. 
The event will also feature two showings of the movie “The Martian” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. 
The night will end with free nachos during Midnight Munchies. 
This event is free for UF stu-
dents with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students are allowed to bring 
a maximum of one guest to the 
event. 
Toastmasters meets Tuesdays 
at UFTalking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building (970 Natural Area 
Drive) in room 1031. 
Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters’ excellent program of public 
speaking and leadership.
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing 
Club invites you and your 
friends to its lessons and danc-
es twice a week on Mondays and Fridays. The club will have free lessons 
for beginners and intermedi-
ates open to everyone. On Monday nights, the club is  at the Reitz Union Breezeway with lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 
p.m. and social dancing from 
8 p.m. to 11 p.m. On Friday nights, the club will be at the Unified Training 
Center at 809 W. University 
Ave. with lessons from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing from 9 p.m. to midnight. If you have any questions or would 
like to get involved, please 
find the club on Facebook at facebook.com/groups/FLSDC. The club hopes to dance with 
you all soon.
View personal collections at 
Collectors Day on Saturday
Celebrate the Florida Museum 
of Natural History’s 37th 
Collectors Day on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free, popular event has attracted collectors from 
across the region for more 
than 30 years. Enjoy a variety of personal collections and learn the his-
tory and context of these trea-
sures. From sports and Beatles mem-orabilia to classic cars and an-tique cameras, chat with the 
collectors to discover how col-
lecting isn’t just for scientists! For more information, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/collectorsday 
or call 352-273-2061.
Florida Museum closed 
Sunday, Monday and Feb. 
22-24
The Florida Museum of 
Natural History, including the Butterfly Rainforest ex-hibit, will be closed Sunday, 
Monday and Feb. 22-24 for 
preventative fumigation to protect its Lepidoptera collec-tions and library resources. Collectors Day, scheduled 
for Saturday, and Volunteer 
Orientation, scheduled for Jan. 13, will continue as planned. Please check flmnh.ufl.edu for 
updates, or call Paul Ramey at 
352-213-0999 for more infor-mation.
Join us for UF’s second 
PECHAKUCHA X Fulbright 20x20 event!PECHAKUCHA 20x20 is a sim-ple presentation format where 
20 slides are shown for 20 sec-
onds each (presentations are 7 minutes long). It will be held Jan. 26 at 5:30 p.m. at the UF International 
Center. Presentations include 
“New Models for Ceramics: Recent Work” by Anna Calluori Holcombe from the UF School 
of Art + Art History; “The 
Mathematics of Organized Ant Behavior” by Jason R. Picardo from the UF Department of Chemical Engineering; and 
“More than Two Centuries 
Vaccinating: Recent Advances on Vaccine Development” by Diana P. Rojas from the UF 
Department of Epidemiology. 
For more information, please contact Professor Charlie Guy at clguy@ufl.edu.
Free English and citizenship 
classes offered to commu-nityAt the Millhopper Library, starting Jan. 26, free English classes will be offered every 
Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. Starting Feb. 4, citizen-ship classes will be held ev-ery Thursday from 6 p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. For more info, email 
info@latinawomensleague.org or visit latinawomensleague.org.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. 
Press releases will not appear in the paper.
STATE
Convicted Florida felon to be 
executed Thursday
TAMPA — A convicted serial killer is scheduled for execution on Thursday. Barring any last-minute stays of execution by the U.S. Supreme Court, 53-year-old Oscar Ray Bolin will be put to death for the 1986 murder of Teri Lynn Matthews. Matthews was abducted in Pasco County, raped and then beaten and fa-tally stabbed. Bolin was also sentenced to death for the 1986 murder of Stephanie Collins and is serving a life sentence for the 1986 murder of Natalie Holley. Matthews' mother, 86-year-old Kathleen Reeves of Brooksville, Florida, told The Associated Press that she'll be in the au-dience as Bolin takes his last breath. She's followed Bolin's numerous appeals over the de-cades in all three cases, often at-tending with the other victim's mothers to seek justice for the slayings. "This doesn't matter which one he dies for, because he only dies once," she said. "He dies for all of our girls."2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 75
HIGH  61° LOW  50°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer  Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
The Gainesville Community Develop-
ment Committee will meet today to discuss 
a housing concept and how it may benefit 
the community and its homeless popula-
tion.
Gainesville City Commissioners Randy 
Wells and Craig Carter will discuss tiny 
housing, a social movement promoting 
homes five to 21 times smaller — and sub-stantially cheaper — than a standard sin-gle-family home.
The social movement could tie in with 
the city’s Achievable Housing project, which aims to provide citizens with afford-able and sustainable housing, Carter said Tuesday.
The tiny house concept isn’t new, and 
the development committee has discussed it before, he said.
But today the committee will look at 
an ordinance recently passed by the city council of Rockledge, Florida, to allow and regulate tiny houses in their city.
Carter said he hopes to recommend that 
the City Commission let staff draft an ordi-nance to allow tiny housing in certain zon-ing districts or residential neighborhoods.
Tiny houses could help Gainesville ad-
dress its homeless population and provide residents a cheaper housing alternative, Carter said. However, it’s not a perfect so-lution to the homeless situation.
“This is a not a cure-all for everything,” 
Carter said.
Possible drawbacks include clusters 
of tiny houses developing into American favelas or a negative economic impact on 
traditional homes if built near residential 
communities, according to a presentation by the Broad and Cassel law firm.
Nonetheless, it’s a concept Carter and 
Alachua County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson said they support.
Hutchinson said the tiny houses could 
allow the city and county to house the homeless and later address mental health 
issues, drug addictions or other problems 
they may have.
“Put them in a house first, and then 
start dealing with their other issues,” 
Hutchinson said.Local committee to discuss tiny housing
Information from Broad and Cassel law firm
IT’S CALLED GATOR 
CAREER CLOSET.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@MelissaGomez004
UF students will be able to bor-
row professional clothes this semes-
ter.
The Gator Career Closet could 
open as early as March, said Stu-
dent Body Treasurer Nicholas Carre. 
It will most likely be located on the second floor of Peabody Hall and will allow students to borrow profes-sional clothes, such as ties and suits for job interviews.
To get clothes, the closet will 
soon be starting clothing drives, he said. Students can donate profes-
sional clothing they no longer use 
or need. A location to collect clothes has not yet been set up.
The timeline of the closet is still 
in the process, he said, but student organizations have already been reaching out to offer help in donat-ing clothes.
The professional clothing closet 
will work with the Career Resource Center and students who work for UF, he said. They will be trained to help students put together a profes-sional outfit.
“A lot of the other schools in the 
SEC already do this,” he said. “It’s a great resource if we can make it hap-
pen.”
Elena Smith, a UF health science 
sophomore, said she thought the 
Gator Career Closet was a great idea. 
“I think it’s hard for college stu-
dents to go out to the mall and find 
professional clothes,” the 19-year-old said. “I would definitely donate clothes that don’t fit me.”Professional clothing 
closet open to studentsHoping to help GNV homeless
“Put them in a house first, and then 
start dealing with their other issues.” 
Robert Hutchinson
Alachua County Commissioner
WORLD
By The Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea — North 
Korea said Wednesday it had con-
ducted a powerful hydrogen bomb test, a defiant and surprising move that, if confirmed, would be a huge 
jump in Pyongyang’s quest to im-
prove its still-limited nuclear arse-nal.
A television anchor said in a typ-
ically propaganda-heavy statement that the North had tested a “minia-turized” hydrogen bomb, elevating the country’s “nuclear might to the next level” and providing it with a 
weapon to defend against the Unit-
ed States and its other enemies.
The statement said the test was 
a “perfect success.” South Korea’s Defense Ministry said, without elaborating, that it was bolstering its security posture in response.
There has long been skepticism 
by Washington and nuclear experts 
on past North Korean claims about 
H-bombs, which are much more powerful, and much more difficult to make, than atomic bombs. But a confirmed test would be seen as extremely worrying and lead to a strong push for new, tougher sanc-tions on North Korea at the Unit-ed Nations. It would also further 
worsen already abysmal relations 
between Pyongyang and its neigh-bors.
North Korean nuclear tests are 
worrying because each new blast is seen as pushing North Korea’s scientists and engineers closer to their goal of building a bomb small enough to place on a missile that 
can reach the U.S. mainland.
A successful H-bomb test would 
be a big step for the North. In a 
hydrogen bomb, radiation from a nuclear fission explosion sets off a fusion reaction responsible for a powerful blast and radioactivity.
Writing in December, after 
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un 
bragged of H-bomb capabilities, 
nuclear expert Jeffrey Lewis noted that building such a bomb “would seem to be a bit of a stretch for the North Koreans.”
“Thermonuclear weapons are 
tricky; making one work requires a bit of test experience,” he wrote on the North Korea-focused 38 North 
website. But, he added, “The North 
has now had a nuclear weapons program for more than 20 years. This program has yielded three nuclear tests. North Korean nuclear scientists have access to their coun-terparts in Pakistan, possibly Iran and maybe a few other places. We should not expect that they will test 
the same fission device over and 
over again.”
North Korea is thought to have 
a handful of rudimentary nuclear bombs and has spent decades trying to perfect a multistage, long-range missile to eventually carry smaller versions of those bombs. After sev-eral failures, it put its first satellite 
into space with a long-range rocket 
launched in December 2012.
N. Korea conducts H-bomb test• The meeting is at 1 p.m. at City Hall in the Roberta Lisle Kline Conference Room.
• For comparison: The typical 
American home is approxi-
mately 2,100 square feet, and the typical tiny house is 100 to 400 square feet.
• The average cost to build a tiny house is $23,000 if built by the owner, while the average cost of a standard-size house is 
approximately $272,000 (not 
including loan interest).4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
Environmental Health and Safety Office, said having stu-
dents approved by the office will make sure the university 
and students who use drones are protected.
“It’s a process of getting approval and how you’re go-
ing to use it,” Properzio said.
Getting approval is not impossible, Properzio said, but 
it requires many steps. The approval time from the office usually depends on the amount of time it takes the FAA to approve a request to fly a drone. But the office usually approves requests in about a week, as long as approval 
from the FAA and insurance is provided, Properzio said.
Asencio, 19, said following the regulations is impor-
tant. The UF aerospace engineering sophomore founded 
Unmanned Aerial Gators, a drone club at UF. He said club members are still in the process of building their own drone. When it’s completed, they will apply for approval from the FAA to fly in on campus.
“We make sure that we don’t break any laws,” he 
said.DRONES,  from pg 1Approval process may take many steps   “Congress still needs to act,” he 
said. “The folks in this room will not rest until Congress does.”
Far from Washington, at 
Main Street Jewelry and Loan in 
Gainesville, store owner Chase 
Summers listened to the president’s speech. For the most part, he agreed.
Summers, who sells various guns 
at his store, said one of the largest problems plaguing the country is private gun sales, specifically the so-called “gun-show loophole.”
This loophole allows private sell-ers, who he said operate outside gov-ernment regulation, to sell guns with-out conducting background checks.
“There is no guideline for private 
sales,” Summers, 43, said. “That’s part of the problem.”
Cortland Bailey, a 22-year-old UF 
electrical engineering senior, said he 
has plenty of experience in private 
gun sales on both ends.
And they’re perfectly legal.“The law states that any individ-
ual may purchase or sell to another individual provided they are legally allowed to own it,” Bailey wrote in an email. “Checking a drivers license is something that has always been 
done in my experience.”Bailey said the U.S. shouldn’t 
pile on gun-safety laws while its cur-
rent laws aren’t enforced enough — particularly the illegal purchase of firearms, which has been under-enforced, he said.
For Obama, dealing with gun vio-
lence is a priority in a country that 
knows it all too well.
“The United States of America is 
not the only country on Earth with 
violent or dangerous people,” he said. “We are not inherently more prone to violence, but we are the only advanced country on Earth that sees this kind of mass violence erupt with this kind of frequency.”
GUNS,  from pg 1Gun reform affects GNV gun shopsMeryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
@merylkornfield
When Holly Raynard accessed e-Learn-
ing Monday, an unfamiliar website greet-ed her.
“I’m switching one of my classes from 
Sakai to Canvas right now,” the UF Center 
for European Studies lecturer said. “There 
has been some technical difficulties.”
UF Information Technology has been 
working on updating the website, which launched Monday, for about two years, said Doug Johnson, the associate direc-tor of academic technology. There was no cost to redo the website because UFIT’s web development team redesigned it.
“We reached a point where the former 
website needed a consistent look and feel across UFIT websites,” he said. 
Johnson said UFIT will be reorganizing 
their platforms over the next two years. They want to make UFIT more effective and easier for students to use. 
“We are not trying to make your life 
difficult,” Johnson said. “In a short time, 
you will get used to this new site.”
While students will see some changes 
by UFIT, such as the website, others will 
not be as obvious, he said. He said he thinks students and faculty will be able to find information easier.
Jocelyn Gordon, a UF advertising 
freshman, said she found the new website easier to navigate.
“I wasn’t on it for long, but at first 
glance, it looked more clean-cut and or-ganized,” the 18-year-old said.
UF IT launches new e-Learning
THE PROGRAMS WERE 
RANKED IN THE TOP FIVE.
Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
@k_newberg
Four master’s programs at UF’s Hough 
School of Business ranked among the best in the nation.
The Eduniversal Best Masters ranking re-
leased their rankings Dec. 25. They created 
the rankings based on a program’s reputation, 
student satisfaction and the average starting salary of graduates. The four programs placed in the top five among U.S. public universities, said John Kraft, the dean of UF’s Warrington College of Business. 
“We’ve been consistently ranked for a 
number of years by them,” he said. 
The master of science in management and 
the master of international business ranked second in the nation, Kraft said. The master of science in entrepreneurship ranked fourth, while the full-time master of business admin-istration ranked fifth. 
All programs except the MBA were com-
bined, with students starting master’s course-work their junior and senior years, he said. Students graduate with both their master’s 
and bachelor’s degrees.
Kraft said UF’s business school focuses more on graduate programs than undergradu-
ate degrees. 
“The undergraduate degrees have been 
shrinking over time and will continue to shrink,” he said. “We’ve focused on growing (graduate) programs.”
The combined programs have been offered 
for 10 years, Kraft said. About 600 students graduate from the school’s combined pro-grams every year. 
Jasmin Tahirovic, a UF international busi-
ness master’s student, said by the time he graduates, he will have his both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees. 
The 22-year-old said the combined pro-
grams set UF apart because they offer real-world experience. Through the graduate school, he studied abroad in South Korea for about a week in May.
While there, he visited Samsung, the 
Hyundai Motor Company and other business-es, he said. He learned business culture differs between countries.  In South Korea, he said forming relationships in business is important. In the U.S., the interaction is less personal.
“We’re taken outside the classroom,” Ta-
hirovic said. “We’re getting taken literally to another country.” 
The combined classes will help him when 
he enters the workforce, he said.
“It’s like, here’s something you’ll actually 
be doing in the workplace,” Tahirovic said.UF business master’s 
programs rank nationally
Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
@merylkornfield
Although President Obama 
recently signed a law banning 
microbeads starting in 2017, environmentalists are still con-cerned with a smaller, yet big-ger, problem: microfibers.
“Microfibers are going to be 
the next fight,” said UF Insti-tute of Food and Agricultural Sciences Extension agent Maia McGuire.
Microfibers are tiny bits 
of plastic that are swept from clothes in the washing machine or from cleaning cloths, she said.  
McGuire runs a project in 
which volunteers collect 1-liter samples in coastal areas around the state to monitor water pol-lution.
They mostly find microfiber 
debris because the sample sizes are too small to pick up larger plastics.
Alachua Environmental 
Protection director Chris Bird doesn’t find that surprising.
“Recently, it has been discov-
ered that these microfibers are actually the biggest source of plastic pollution in the ocean,” Bird said. “The trend is that the legislatures are unwilling to deal with these emerging con-taminants. There is a lag time between people discovering a problem and a governmental re-sponse.”
Similar trends are seen in 
the way water is tested. The Gainesville Regional Utilities treatment plant does not test their water for microfiber or mi-crobeads, Ana Krsmanovic, GRU marketing and communications specialist, wrote in an email.
“Waste water plants treat the 
water from toilets and washing machines,” Bird said.
“The treatment plants we 
have right now do not treat these contaminates,” he said.
Bird also said the change in 
the type of clothing we buy has affected microfiber quantities passing into our water supply.
“A while back we used cot-
ton and more natural materi-als in our clothing. This has changed,” Bird said. “Compa-nies like Patagonia, and other clothing companies that claim they are green, manufacture their products in China where there is very little regulation.”Microfiber pollution 
endangers water2004
UF uses WebCT for online courses.
JULY 2010
UF introduces Sakai
MARCH 2013
GatorLink gets a new login page
MAY 2013
e-Learning is upgraded from Sakai 2.8 to Sakai 2.9
JUNE 2013
UF considers launching Canvas
JUNE 2013
Microsoft Office 365 replaces UF Web-mail 
MAY 9, 2016
UF to finish migrating Sakai to CanvasCAMPUS
“Microfibers are going to 
be the next fight.”
Maia  McGuire
UF Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences Extension 
agent
REGULATIONS ON DRONES
• Any UF employee or student who wants to op-
erate a drone as part of their university employ-ment or a university program must first receive a Certificate of Waiver or Authorization from the FAA.
• Any third party or hobbyist who wants to use a drone or model aircraft over university prop-erty must receive approval through UF’s Envi-ronmental Health and Safety office and provide proof of FAA approval and insurance.
• Third parties and hobbyists also must be under a contract that holds the university harmless from any claims or harm to people and damage to university property.
• While operating a drone to record or transmit visual images, operators must take all reason-able measure to avoid areas normally consid-ered private.
• Any use of a drone must comply with FAA reg-ulations governing use within five miles of an airport or two miles of a heliport.By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
Gainesville Police arrested a local man Monday 
afternoon after police said he punctured his boss’ 
tires.
At about 3 a.m. on Oct. 14, Jacoby Akeem Ford, 
22, used a screwdriver to stab the tires of his for-mer supervisor’s car and her husband’s car, ac-cording to a police report.
“I woke up one morning to take my children 
to school and they screamed my name and said, ‘Mommy your tires are flattened,’” the supervisor said.
The total damages were estimated at about 
$2,000. The supervisor said she drove both cars to her job and Ford recognized them, according to the report.When he was arrested for an unrelated incident 
last year, the supervisor denied him his job back, she said. However, she wasn’t alone in deciding 
Ford’s fate.
“He was very hostile and he always had some-
thing going on,” she said.
The supervisor recalled an 
instance when Ford stole a cell-
phone from the mother of a resi-dent at the nursing home where she works. She said Ford crossed 
the line in October.
“You came outside my home,” 
she said. “That’s too close for comfort.”
Police charged Ford with two counts of criminal 
mischief and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $100,000 bond.A RESOLUTION HONORING FIRST 
RESPONDERS WAS ALSO PASSED.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@MelissaGomez004
Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines welcomed student senators to the first Spring Senate meeting.
In the short meeting Tuesday night, 
senators passed a resolution honoring first responders by unanimous consent.  Committee appointments for the Capital 
Improvement Trust Fund also passed by 
unanimous consent.
CITF committee members use funds to 
support non-academic student life in build-ings on campus, such as the Reitz Union 
and Newell Hall.
“Thank you for approving the CITF ap-
pointments,” Padron-Rasines said. “I really 
appreciate it.”
Erica Baker, UF’s supervisor of elec-
tions, also discussed backup options for Spring SG elections. If five or fewer of the voting locations are down, students will be asked to visit a working location, she said.
Tuesday was also the first day students 
could request absentee ballots, she said. 
Students can request a ballot on the SG 
website or in person at the SG office in the Reitz Union. The diversity outreach com-mittee also announced they will be holding 
a Martin Luther King Jr. candlelight march 
and walk Jan. 13.
The next SG meeting will be held Tues-
day at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art, 
said Senate President Susan Webster (Im-
pact, District A).
By having the meeting outside Senate 
chambers, she said she hopes senators will be able to meet the students they repre-
sent.
“I’m very excited for that meeting,” she 
said.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
SG passes committee appointments at first Spring meeting
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines addresses the Student Senate 
on Tuesday night as Senate President Susan Webster looks on. Padron-Rasines thanked the senators for unanimously passing the Capital Improvement Trust Fund committee appointments.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
Police charged a North Carolina 
man with five local armed robberies 
on Monday spanning two months 
and three police departments.
At about 2 p.m. on Dec. 19, 
Demmarius Tolbert, 24, robbed a 
Family Dollar in the 500 block of 
NE 23rd Ave. with a semi-automatic 
pistol, according to a police report.
He ran off with about $540 from 
the store’s register. Two hours ear-lier, he robbed a Dollar General in 
the 1000 block of NE 16th Ave., ac-
cording to the report.After his arrest, Gainesville 
Police investigators noticed Tol-
bert’s behavior matched an un-
solved robbery 
from Nov. 18 at 
a Kangaroo Ex-press on 13th St., said GPD 
spokesman Of-
ficer Ben Tobias.
Additionally, investigators with 
the High Springs Police Department 
and the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office saw the media coverage of Tolbert’s arrest and linked it to rob-beries in their respective jurisdic-tions.One robbery occurred at a Kan-
garoo Express in the 4000 block of NW 43rd St. in October, and the 
other at a Family Dollar in High 
Springs.
Investigators from the three de-
partments then interviewed Tolbert 
and connected him to the robberies, 
Tobias said.
Noting the increase in Gainesville 
robberies this year, Tobias said ev-ery arrest is a welcome improve-
ment. 
“When we can help clear five 
cases with one arrest, it’s even bet-
ter,” he said.
Police charged Tolbert with five 
counts of armed robbery and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he is being held, as of press time, in lieu of a $450,000 bond.Police solve 5 local robberies
Ford
Man arrested for work vengeanceT olbert
“Thank you for approving the CITF 
appointments. I really appreciate it.”
 Joselin Padron-Rasines
Student Body President
They spanned 2 months
CRIME
Nicole Gomez/Alligator Staff
Just for laughs
Kevin Funk, left, and Kris Zylinski, right, host the weekly stand-up 
comedy showcase and comedy open mic at Market Street Pub and Cabaret on Tuesday night. Amateur comedians can participate, and the showcase lasts from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. on Tuesdays.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The cultural signiﬁ  cance of “Auld Lang Syne”
“We two have run about the hills
And pulled the daisies ﬁ  ne;
But we’ve wandered manys 
the weary foot
Since long, long ago.”
-Robert Burns, “Auld Lang Syne”Anybody who partook in the revelry that 
ushered in the new year undoubtedly heard, whether they can recall as much, the great old tune which is “Auld Lang Syne.”
I am fairly certain everyone who heard it 
instantly recognized it and probably hummed along, arm in arm with chums, stumbling gracefully, but who even knows what the hell they’re singing? Is it even 
English?
Don’t feel bad if you have no idea what the words to 
the song are. According to NPR, most people in our gen-
eration are ignorant of the song’s lyrics and meaning.
Well, here we are: “Auld Lang Syne” was composed 
by Scottish poet Robert Burns in 1788. According to cor-respondences of the poet, the ballad itself was his compi-lation of some popular folk verses that had been passed down in the oral tradition but never recorded in print.
Furthermore, the poem was composed in the so-called 
Scots language, a dialect of Scottish English in the Anglic language family, and as such a Germanic language closely related to English, not Scottish Gaelic.
As such, auld lang syne means “old long since,” which 
can be interpreted idiomatically as “long, long ago,” or even “days gone by,” and functions similarly in Scots to the classic preface “once upon a time.” Other scholars as-sert that the title implies an initial “for,” meaning “for old 
time’s sake.”
Hence, the song concerns historical memory and nos-
talgia and serves as a call to group cohesion and solidarity. 
According to Ruth Perry, a professor of literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, it is regretful that people are largely ignorant of its meaning — especially given the song is about drinking, friendship and the past. She maintains further that the decline of the song’s popu-larity over the past few decades is unfortunate, as the singing of songs in communal fashion remains an important means of forming social bonds.
I exhort you all to look up the full text of the 
song and reﬂ  ect on the verses. As I reﬂ  ected on them, I was struck by the weight of memory in our daily lives. The holiday season is not only a time of gratitude for memories and for what we have, but also melancholy in that we inad-vertently mourn the absence of all that is lost, whether our innocence, good fortune or those 
we love.
Furthermore, in reﬂ  ecting on years past, it’s all laid out: 
shame, sorrow, exultation and triumph. Looking back, we can visualize how we were shaped as human beings, often in ways radically different than our plans, or by events simply unforeseen.
Sitting here after the close of 2015, a year that was in-
deed marked by disheartening levels of human cruelty and increased division among mankind, I can but hope those aspects of years past will not continue to plague our fragile planet, for they are not the stuff of nostalgia, but of shame.
So, to truly comprehend the theme of the song, what 
exactly do we long for in the past? Are we also to deny the progress we have undoubtedly made in the long struggle of human history? That is for each one of you to ﬁ  gure out.
As we reﬂ  ect on years past and make, in whatever 
fashion, resolutions for the coming year, we ought to re-solve, in some sense, to do our part to forge a society and a world in which our descendants long for the past and hope it, in turn, inspires them to forge a better future 
for themselves. Lest we ever forget, beauty is ﬂ  eeting but 
goodness endures.
“And there’s a hand, my trusty friend!And give us a hand of yours!And we’ll take a deep draught of good-willFor long, long ago.”Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF linguistics mas-
ter’s student. His column appears on Wednesdays.New year, same 
gang of American 
idiots
The ringing in of the new year brings with it several cherished traditions: the outbreak of mirth, merry, renewed commitments to being a better human be-ing, the joyful return of children and young adults to school… the takeover of a federal wildlife refuge by 
an armed militia in Oregon? Gadzooks!
For those of you who spent the beginning of the new 
year the way decent human beings are supposed to — hun-gover, with the company of good friends and family serv-ing as the only thing keeping the pain at bay — there is a strong possibility you missed the first reports concerning the Bundy family’s latest antics. Whether this is because buzzwords like “terrorist” or “siege” were passed over in news reports in favor of “armed protestors” and “occupa-
tion” remains up for debate. 
However, now that the “occupation,” “siege” or what 
have you of the national wildlife reserve is in its fifth day, 
this latest incident in the ongoing saga of the Bundy fam-ily’s idiocy has expectedly revealed itself to be a quintes-sentially American story. Although it is a near certainty the Citizens of Constitutional Freedom (yes, they call them-selves that with straight faces) only meant to have their fun playing the most riveting round of cowboys and Indians the 
U.S. has ever seen, their misguided notion of playtime has 
managed to touch upon several hot-button issues. Truly, this one has it all: From the debates over appropriate polic-ing tactics to gun control, this story leaves no controversial stone unturned.
The most interesting aspect of the whole affair has prov-
en to be the “militia” one. Until now, the myriad right-wing paramilitary operations that pervade the U.S. have remained largely out of sight from public eyes. But, as the 
past few days have reinforced, real they are, and so is the 
threat they pose to democracy and civility. Despite this, the treatment of this crew has amounted to little more than eye rolls and cute Twitter hashtags like #yallqaeda.
Don’t get us wrong, it is fine and healthy to mock those 
who pose threats; there’s a reason Charlie Hebdo remains in publication a year onward from the assault on their of-fices. With that said, the lack of uproar inspired by armed gunmen holding a piece of federal land hostage is especial-
ly noticeable when compared to, oh, let’s just say reactions 
to Black Lives Matter protests.
As several think pieces have echoed, the treatment of 
these gunmen by the media, the larger social sphere and law enforcement would be vastly different were they in-dividuals of color. Yes, these men are 30 miles away from the nearest town and have not taken any hostages. Still, it’s a hell of a large statement to take over government-controlled land with guns and publicly announce you’re 
prepared to take lives. Given the relative severity of the 
situation, why has America at large been content to roll our eyes and laugh off the silly rednecks?
Is it because they look like “us”? Is it because we have 
managed to severely underestimate the threat of violence by anti-government folk? Or is it because we’re afraid to acknowledge that much of American violence — or at least the implication of it — comes not from urban streets and ghettos, or even from abroad, but from our own heartland? 
If nothing else, it’s something worth pondering.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Culling through every-
thing I’ve read about the new year, articles 
usually include two 
things: resolutions and 
motivational quotes meant to inspire readers to follow 
through with said resolutions 
for at least a month. These ar-ticles don’t exactly represent creative and original ways to look at the new year, but you know what they say. 
“You can’t know where you’re going until 
you know where you’ve been.”
Usually, my columns concern politics 
or something else I find not quite right 
about the times we live in. But don’t wor-
ry, or perhaps do, because there will no doubt be problems to write about in the weeks to come. I’m not looking to write this week as if it should’ve started out 
with “Dear Diary…” I’m also not look-
ing to write just another article about the fresh start 2016 can provide. However, before I can make improvements for this 
year, I need to reflect. As a freshman, 
beginning college last August brought about more changes than I could have ever imagined. I’m sure other freshmen would like to pretend some things never 
happened. I know I did. But before any 
events are erased from our memories, it would be nice to look back at them once before we move on to better things.
There are two areas where I’ve expe-
rienced the biggest changes, one of them being school itself. I remember the days when I was one of the smarter students in my school and when some days could 
be spent watching movies because the 
teacher just wasn’t feeling it. 
However, I knew beforehand that col-
lege classes weren’t going to be as easy as 
my high school cooking classes. Beyond 
that, the hardest part proved to be going from being a senior back to being a fresh-man. Many told me, always comparing the switch to moving between different 
parts of totem poles, that this was going 
to be the toughest thing about the transi-tion to college. 
I just never thought it was going to be 
so difficult to basically start over again with a totally unknown assort-ment of new clubs and activi-ties. Even though I eventually 
found a few clubs to join, I can-
not take back those first few weeks of disillusioned wonder-ing and wandering.
The other half of the transi-
tion comes from leaving those we love back home. Since cir-
cle time in kindergarten, I had successful-ly built a circle of friends I thought would 
last me through the rest of my life. In-
stead, we just drop our friends and family to start over, pretending it feels natural. No matter how many people offered the 
advice that everyone misses their family 
and friends, it couldn’t change the way I felt. For the first two months of college, I just wanted to go back home.
This is the part of the article where I 
actually get to the point. What made the above difficulties so difficult in the first place was the issue of mentality. Every-one and their mother give advice on what 
to do in situations others haven’t experi-
enced before. 
I wasn’t surprised I was going to be 
challenged in college; it just would have been a lot easier if there weren’t so many 
opinions floating in the ether. Opinions 
lead to expectations, and expectations rarely materialize in reality.
Although the first semester of college 
is over for many of us, the scary prospect now is that we will have to start over again in another city once we graduate. At least now we have a vague idea of what and what not to do when starting 
over comes our way again.
My own resolution this year is to gain 
patience. A lot of my tough times came 
from having more expectations than pa-
tience, with my impatience then leading 
me to look for the opinions of others rath-er than developing my own. 
For the sake of bettering ourselves, it is 
important to remember personal lessons 
with purpose.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineer-
ing freshman. His column appears on 
Wednesdays.Resolutions for reflection Column
Happy January! It’s the beginning of a new year and a new semester. 
Here’s to saying good-
bye to Winter Break, a 
glorious time of rest, relaxation and stufﬁ  ng myself with home-
cooked food. It was good while 
it lasted. Does anyone else feel decidedly underprepared for this semester? Coming to school in the fall of-ten feels exciting and full of promise, but 
the (semi) cold, dreary air of spring has a 
habit of sucking the enthusiasm for school right out of me. Luckily, there are ways to stay positive about rolling out of bed and 
trundling to class this week.
For me, that means a new stack of 
books to read, or at least arrange becom-
ingly next to my bed in an appropriately hipster-like fashion. Every time I go home 
for Winter Break, I ﬁ  nd myself buying 
something at my favorite bookstore at least three times a week. This is perfect as far as aesthetics are concerned and never fails to brighten my mood. However, this 
is less convenient for my wallet, and this 
is downright detrimental when it comes to productivity. It’s hard to focus on pre-paring for your 8:30 a.m. class when you 
have a brand new novel sitting temptingly 
on your desk. But I digress. Welcome to Spring 2016, Gators!
In my time as a columnist at the Alliga-
tor, I’ve written on bookish subjects. This 
semester, however, I’ll be focusing my 
weekly column on a subject every college student is familiar with, whether they like it or not: books!
Whether you are the kind of person 
who reads recreationally like a ﬁ  end, or someone who doesn’t go near a book unless it’s a required text-book for class, the fact is we all 
have read or will read at some 
point in the future. And whether you think so or not, that’s awe-some. I’ll be here this semester 
to discuss any and all book-
related topics. This could mean encouraging you to pick up a 
work, dissect a genre or talk about a cool literary event Gainesville is hosting.
This is an opinions column, not a re-
view section, so speciﬁ  c book evaluations will be few and far between. Instead, I want to talk to all of YOU about the sub-
ject of books. How do we relate to books? 
What does reading a speciﬁ  c book do for us? How can we make reading a dry, com-plicated chemistry textbook slightly less awful? What are the best ways to read and 
the best places to read? Which one is bet-
ter, the book or the movie? (The answer is ALWAYS the book.)
To do this, I really want to hear more 
from you, the ﬁ  ne people who read this column. Starting next week, feel free to email me your favorite books, your fa-vorite bookstores or different literary sub-jects you want me to talk about. Do you 
have an opinion about the degeneration 
of young adult literature? Do you want to chat about strong female characters? Do you wish more people realized Shake-
speare is the root of all modern-day litera-
ture, or is Shakespeare is overrated?
Whatever you think, I’d love to hear it. 
Books have been around for ages, and for just about as long as they’ve been around, 
humans have been talking about them. 
Let’s join that conversation.
Through living and working in a col-
lege town, we are especially lucky to be 
in an environment full of people who 
dig books. We have one of the biggest li-brary systems in the state of Florida, and we have a treasure trove of independent bookstores and coffee shops. I’m excited 
to start this chapter (pun intended) with 
all of you.
Sally Grieder is a UF English and pub-
lic relations junior. Her column appears 
on Wednesdays.New year, new column, new booksColumn
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
“W e all have read or will 
read at some point in the 
future. And whether you 
think so or not, that's 
awesome”
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
ABOVE:
Eric Luo, left, a 19-year-old .engi-
neering freshman, throws a ﬂ  ying disc to Julia Gu, an 18-year-old en-gineering freshman, on the North Lawn on Tuesday afternoon. They said they had ﬁ  nished their classes for the day and were tossing the disc around with their friends. 
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
LEFT:
More than a dozen boxes ﬁ  lled with Gator Greenbacks coupon booklets sit waiting to be opened near Turlington Plaza on Tues-day. For the past two decades, the booklets have been handed out for free to students every semester.
Emma Green/Alligator StaffEmma Green/Alligator Staff
Claudia Bell, a 21-year-old UF business senior, enjoys the ﬁ  rst Krishna Lunch of her ﬁ  nal undergraduate semester on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday. “I try to come here at least once a week, ” she said.
BACK IN THE SPRING OF THINGS
As the Spring semester kicked off Tuesday, a cold winter day brought with it yet another reason to quickly get to 
the next building. But a brisk, cloudy day didn’t stop students from getting back into the swing of things. Campus spurred back to life as students returned from Winter Break: Krishna Lunch, Turlington tabling and hammocks on the Plaza of the Americas. As far as students are concerned, Spring is here — even if the weather doesn’t agree yet.
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
Students walk through Turlington Plaza between classes on Tuesday afternoon. The plaza sees some of the heaviest foot trafﬁ  c of anywhere else on campus.
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Alex Smith, left, 21, and Aubrey McCall, a 21-year-old UF political science senior, take Sneeze, a 6-year-old greyhound, out for a walk near Grinter Hall on Tuesday.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-12-15-18-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA, 10 blks from cam-pus. Nice house, wood floors, W/D provided, etc. $1550/mo, 1105 NW 10th Ave, Text or call 352-339-2342. More houses available at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com  1-8-15-2-2
AVAIL AUG 1ST 4BR/2BA big, nice house with 
big backyard. Plus full size hot tab, all ame-
nities, plus W/D Text or call 352-339-2342. 
$1600/mo. 3413 NE 8th Ave. More houses 
at www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com    
1-8-15-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell 
phone, and more in the Electronics Section 
of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just 
looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office1105 W. University Ave.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate 8 ElectronicsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
Thorough cleaners needed with reliable cars and willing to drive to Williston, Jonesville ,morriston, and around Gainesville. Homes/apartments are cleaned 7days 8-5 and of-fices 7days 5p- until finished. weekly pay & 8.25/hr. Must pass a background check and drug test. Please call 352-214-0868 if inter-ested..    1-8-5-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Sun Country Sports is now hiring
coaches for cheerleading, recreational & team gymnastics & more!  Apply today at www.suncountrysports.com/jobs.     1-11-15-5-14ACROSS
1 Big initials in
tobacco
4 Devices with
scroll wheels
8 Many an old-
movie criminal
mastermind
14 Perrier, par
exemple
15 Sick as __16 Jittery17 Visitor’s first
attempt
19 Emphatic type20 Training group21 Like milligrams
and kilograms
23 Baseball family
name
24 Actress
Thompson of“Family”
25 “My bad!”29 Queen-to-be,
maybe
30 Visitor’s second
attempt
33 Hum a lullaby for35 Common starting
time
36 Justice Dept.
division
37 Sean’s mom
39 Unlikely
Monopoly
outcomes
41 Student carrier44 Peeled-off item
46 “Big crunch”
pickle brand
50 Visitor’s third
attempt
53 Asti export54 Kids’ __:
restaurant
offering
55 “The Dukes of
Hazzard” deputy
56 Indigo source57 Ottoman shelter60 Playing marble61 Nixes64 Visitor’s last
words
66 How megastores
buy goods
67 Boo-boo68 Snitch69 Assumes to be
true
70 Ring units: Abbr.
71 Porter kinDOWN
1 Baggage
handlers
2 Game with cestas
and pelotas
3 Seedy
4 Good way to
have it?
5 Knot-tying words
6 One with a racket7 Stirred up8 Conservationist
John
9 Against
10 Church official11 Start to practice?12 “__ live and
breathe!”
13 B’way setting18 Seedy22 Unspoken24 Chicago suburb26 Stomach-punch
response
27 Banned chem.
contaminant
28 Snow glider31 Sushi chef’s array32 Ship’s spine34 Unable to choose
38 “Rings __
Fingers”: 1942
Fonda/Tierneyfilm
40 Wild and fierce41 Emeril
exclamation
42 Le Mans article
43 Peek, for peep:
Abbr.
45 Toast, so to
speak
47 Ol’ Blue Eyes48 Monogram
component
49 “Gigi” author
51 “Right away,
madame!”52 Four Tops’
record label
58 Get all mushy
59 Invites60 Long stretches
61 Bigwig
62 Brian of Roxy
Music
63 Airer of some
MLB 
postseason
games
65 Clear (of)
By Matt Skoczen©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/06/1601/06/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, January 6, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1. POLITICS: What sitting vice 
president shot and mortally wounded 
a political rival in a duel?
2. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in suffix “grade” mean?
3. MOVIES: What was the name of 
the angel who visited George Bailey in “It’s a Wonderful Life”?
4. TELEVISION: What was the 
title of the theme song to the sitcom 
“Cheers”?
5. U.S. STATES: What state’s motto 
is “North to the Future”?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What 
kind of animal would be described as “lupine”?
7. GAMES: How much money 
do you get when you pass “Go” in Monopoly?
8. LITERATURE: What are the 
names of the two feuding families in “Romeo and Juliet”?
9. GEOGRAPHY: What two coun-
tries does the Cheviot Hills range divide?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the birthstone for April?
Answers
1. Aaron Burr2. Walking or moving3. Clarence4. “Where Everybody Knows Your 
Name”
5. Alaska6. A wolf7. $2008. Montague and Capulet9. England and Scotland10. Diamond
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 4, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2015
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14
Experienced Cook Wanted
Cafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
Medical Office Assistant
PT for doctor's office. Experience preferred. 
Email resume to: drpohani@gmail.com    
1-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 Rides 25 Lost & FoundHeadline
Story description Pg#
Jonathan Bullard improved his 
draft stock in his last year at UF. Read the story on pg. 14.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
A.J. Puk highlights Baseball America's T op 100 College 
Draft Prospects list
A.J. Puk (No. 1), Buddy Reed (No. 4), Logan Shore (No. 12), Dane Dunning  
(No. 43),  Shaun Anderson (No. 66), Peter Alonso (No. 76).THE MEN'S TENNIS TEAM HAS 
NOT WON AN SEC TOURNAMENT 
UNDER SHELTON
By Jordan McPherson
Alligator Staff Writer
@J_McPherson1126
UF men’s tennis coach Bryan Shelton has 
had three years to bring some hardware back 
to Gainesville: a Southeastern Conference 
title, a deep run in the NCAA Tournament, individual postseason titles.
It hasn’t happened yet.And now, it’s time for Shelton and the 
Gators to show up when it matters.
When Florida opens its dual-match season 
on Jan. 17 against Troy, Shelton will embark on his fourth journey to make the Gators a 
contender at the end of the season.
In three seasons, Florida has yet to win an 
SEC Tournament or advance further than the third round of the NCAA Tournament.
Outside of the 2013-14 season, a year where the Gators fell 4-2 to Texas A&M in the SEC Tournament final and were one point away 
from upsetting Ohio State in the NCAA Round 
of 16, Florida’s postseason presence has been virtually nonexistent under Shelton.
This is the year for Shelton to break through 
and show the men’s tennis team is capable of success.
And UF has a team capable of competing if 
it plays well.
Seniors Gordon Watson and Diego Hidal-Florida eyes elusive conference championshipBy Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff Writer
@icohenb
 It didn’t seem as if Mike White 
was asking for much.
Not after his team missed 21 of its 25 three-point heaves, not after only one of his players made four 
baskets on the night, and not af-
ter a 73-71 loss at home to Florida State that, despite all of its shoot-ing struggles, Florida could have won.“If you get two or three more 
of those to go,” White said af-
ter UF’s loss to FSU on Dec. 31, 
“you’re in business.”
Florida (9-4, 1-0 Southeastern 
Conference) responded with a much-improved showing on Sat-
urday, winning its SEC opener 
against Georgia while shooting 40.9 percent from three-point range and 42.3 percent from the field. The Gators will look to sus-
tain that performance when they 
face Tennessee (7-6, 0-1 SEC) to-night at 7 in Knoxville, Tennes-see.
But, more often than not this 
season, Florida’s offense has re-sembled that of its performance Gators seeking consistency against Volunteers
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF coach Mike White talks with guard KeVaughn Allen during Florida's 77-63 win against Georgia on Saturday in the O'Connell Center.
FOOTBALL
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
ORLANDO — Kelvin Taylor’s 
Florida career had its share of 
ups-and-downs.
His first two seasons were 
filled with both inconsistencies 
and highlights — including a 
197-yard rushing performance against Georgia in 2014 — but Taylor’s lowest moment of his career came, oddly enough, after a touchdown. 
The junior running back made 
a throat-slashing gesture after scoring in the Gators’ 31-24 win 
against East Carolina this season 
and was berated on the sidelines by coach Jim McElwain. 
But Taylor learned from that 
lesson and displayed the type of maturity that is expected from a team leader.
He went on to record the best 
year from a Florida running back 
since the 2012 season. 
In Florida’s 41-7 loss to Michi-
gan in the Citrus Bowl, Taylor be-
came the first UF running back to rush for at least 1,000 yards since Mike Gillislee. 
The Belle Glade native reached 
the mark on a 7-yard carry in the second quarter, and ended his 
junior season with 1,035 rushing 
yards to go with 13 touchdowns.
While his team didn’t have 
a good performance, McElwain gave credit to Taylor for reaching his personal milestone. 
“That’s a good deal,” McEl-
wain said. “It’s a credit to these guys up front and, obviously, his 
perseverance in continuing to get 
a little bit better.”
Added Taylor: “That definitely 
was a goal of mine. My offensive line, those guys helped me out with that goal and did a great job for me,” Taylor said after the game. 
“(I’m) very thankful and 
blessed for great coaches and just Taylor's 
departure marked by highs and lows
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE TAYLOR,  PAGE 15 SEE TENNIS,  PAGE 15UF split its last two gamesBy Patrick Pinak
Alligator Staff Writer
@Pinakk12
 
Florida’s 2015 season was 
heartbreaking.
Finishing just one game shy of 
the College World Series cham-
pionship, the Gators were forced 
from Omaha a game too early and empty-handed.
But it was also a season to re-
member — one of the best UF has ever produced.
Florida finished 52-18 on the 
year, good for the second-most wins in school history. Three of 
those 52 wins stand out against the 
others.
Then-freshman JJ Schwarz 
homered four times in a 22-2 win over Stetson on April 7, setting a school record for most home runs in a game.
On May 24, UF took home its 
first Southeastern Conference 
Tournament title since 2011 after 
defeating defending national cham-pion Vanderbilt 7-3. The contest marked Florida’s third win out of four matchups against the Com-modores last season and capped a four-game win streak through the tournament after UF dropped its opener to Arkansas.
Less than two weeks later, the 
Gators earned a trip to Omaha with an 11-4 win against in-state rival FSU in the Gainesville Super Re-gional on June 6. And now Florida has Omaha in its sights again for 2016.
Nine players were taken in the 
2015 MLB Draft, including three 
key players in outfielder Harrison 
Bader, shortstop Richie Martin and third baseman Josh Tobias.
But Florida returns a crop of 
talent to the lineup, headlined by speedy outfielder Buddy Reed and Collegiate Baseball’s Co-Freshman Player of the Year in Schwarz.
On the mound, UF figures to 
have one of the most dynamic rota-tions in the SEC, if not the country.
Juniors Logan Shore and A.J. 
Puk dominated opponents down the stretch last season, as the two combined to go 20-10. Shore ranked sixth in the SEC with a 2.72 ERA, and Puk’s 104 strikeouts came in at fifth place in the confer-
ence.
Throw in the fact that Florida 
reeled in the No. 2 ranked recruit-
ing class by Baseball America, and it’s easy to see why the Gators were ranked No. 1 in Collegiate Baseball’s NCAA Division I pre-season poll.
UF opens its 2016 campaign on 
Feb. 19 against Florida Gulf Coast in Gainesville. 14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
By Luis T orres 
and Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writers
@LFTorresIII, @ebaueri
Redshirt junior linebacker Jeremi Powell 
will not finish his career as a member of the Gators.
Powell is no longer a part of the program 
after an injury-plagued career with Florida. 
GatorCountry first reported that Powell was 
no longer on the team, which was later con-firmed by the Gators.
The Largo native’s decision to end his Florida career leaves Florida’s already thin linebacking corps with just six scholarship linebackers on the roster.
Powell — a four star recruit and a top 
250 player in the country coming out of high school according to 247Sports — played in 10 games this season, starting two, and had 
11 tackles. 
During his time at Florida, he played in 
25 games and registered 21 career tackles. 
He is expected to graduate in May and 
has one season of eligibility left. With that 
in mind, he may look to transfer to another program. Four-star defensive tackle picks UF:Florida added another talented piece to 
its 2016 recruiting class via the commitment of four-star defensive tackle Shavar Manuel.
Manuel announced his decision through 
his Twitter account on Tuesday afternoon, only one minute after coach Jim McElwain had tweeted his usual “#ChompChomp,” signaling the commitment of a new recruit.
The Tampa native brings size and versa-
tility as a 6-foot-4, 290 pound defensive line prospect out of Bradenton’s IMG Academy.
Ranked as the No. 42 player in the nation 
by the 247Sports Composite, Manuel is cur-rently the second highest-rated prospect in this class for the Gators, behind only quar-terback Feleipe Franks. His commitment boosted UF’s recruiting class up to No. 6 in the country, according to 247Sports, and comes on the heels of an appearance in the Under Armour All-America game this past 
Saturday. 
Manuel joins a trio of defensive ends to 
bring the total number of defensive linemen 
in the class to four. As of now, he is the lone defensive tackle. 
His commitment brings Florida’s recruit-
ing class to 26 total members.
Linebacker leaves Gators, top recruit commits to UFBy Graham Hack
Alligator Staff Writer
@graham_hack24
ORLANDO — Jonathan Bul-
lard’s senior season ended on a 
subdued note — three tackles, 
no sacks or tackles for loss and a 
41-7 drubbing from Michigan.
But this season, that type of 
performance was the exception.
Last year, it would have been 
closer to the norm.
It wasn’t that the defensive 
lineman didn’t play well last sea-son — he did. Bullard notched 52 
tackles and 2.5 sacks while play-
ing alongside Dante Fowler Jr., the star of the team.
In fact, he was considered a 
prospect who would likely be tak-en in one of the early rounds of the NFL Draft.
But he was just a solid player, 
not an elite talent.
Bullard knew he could do bet-ter.
And he was right.
“I think it’s the best decision 
I made in my life,” Bullard said 
about returning to school for his final season at Florida. 
“I’m playing the best ball I’ve 
played since I’ve been here.”
In 2015, the senior recorded 
66 tackles, led the team with 17.5 tackles for loss and shared the 
team lead with 6.5 sacks.
He was named to the AP All-
American third team and is pro-
jected by many to have a good 
shot at being drafted in the first 
round of the upcoming NFL Draft.
He also became one of the sig-
nature voices in the midst of a regime change, stepping up to be-
come one of the primary leaders 
on a team laying the foundation of the program for years to come. 
All of that came with another 
year of experience and maturity, but it also took the type of work and dedication few are willing to 
give in his situation.
“The things that he did in 
the offseason, the things that he 
did throughout the year to make himself one of the best players in 
college football,” defensive coor-
dinator Geoff Collins said, ”you don’t see guys do that a lot.”
Had Bullard left last year, he 
would likely have been remem-bered as a talented player who had a good career.
He would have been one of the 
players who fans would have had 
to take a few minutes trying to re-
call when they heard the player’s familiar — but not instantly rec-ognizable — name.
But now, he’ll be remembered 
as one of the players who paved the way for future Florida teams, someone who left all he had on the field for the good of the pro-
gram and who helped lead Flori-
da to its first SEC Championship game appearance since 2009.
And in the process, he might 
be the school’s next NFL star.Bullard made last season at UF countBASEBALL
Gators looking to return 
to College World Series 
Credit
UF defensive lineman Jon Bullard goes for a tackle during Florida’s 28-27 win over T ennessee on Sept. 
26 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
PETER 
ALONSO
1BBUDDY
REED
OFA.J.
PUK
LHPLOGAN
SHORE
RHPJJ
SCHWARZ
CatcherTOP RETURNING PLAYERS
He recorded 66 tackles
NOTEBOOKWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
go provide the experience, playing under 
Shelton since his first season at the helm of Florida’s program. Hidalgo earned first-
team All-SEC honors last season after go-
ing 10-6 in dual singles action and 9-9 in doubles with Watson.
Watson has found success of his own, 
too. The 5-foot-11 righty has won at least 10 dual meet singles matches in each of his first three seasons, while also boasting a 33-29 career record in doubles.
Juniors Elliott Orkin and Maxx Lipman 
bring quality playing time from their first two years, a doubles tandem with comple-mentary playing styles and singles players who have held their own against some of 
the best in the country.
Sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco high-lights the five underclassmen on the team, 
all of whom are capable of contributing.
Last season, Perez-Blanco posted a 
team-best 14-4 mark in dual match singles 
while going 8-1 in SEC 
play en route to SEC All-
Freshman team laurels. 
Most of his singles action came on the lower courts 
as a freshman, but Perez-
Blanco showed marked improvement this fall.
The Miami native went 
13-3 in tournament singles action, claim-
ing the singles title at the Bedford Cup and 
advancing to the semifinals in the USTA/ITA Southeast Regionals.
True sophomore Jordan Belga, redshirt 
sophomore Josh Wardell and freshmen Al-fredo Perez and McClain Kessler round out the team.TENNIS,  from pg 13Hidalgo went 10-6 in singles against FSU.
UF is shooting 28.4 percent 
from behind the arc and 42.2 
percent from the field, both last 
in the SEC.
Except for a few scattered 
games, UF has shot poorly from 
long range all season, even while 
players like Brandone Francis-Ramirez and an improved Devin Robinson — whose confidence in his shot before the season 
was backed by teammates and 
coaches —  touted it as their strength in October.
Robinson is shooting 28.9 
percent from three and Francis-Ramirez is shooting 12.1 percent
“With us, it’s not a lack of 
getting in the gym,” White said. “Our guys have been in the 
gym.”
And none more so than fresh-
man KeVaughn Allen.
Allen, the former No. 1 re-
cruit out of Arkansas, remained 
committed to Florida after the departure of former coach Billy Donovan on one condition: un-restricted gym access.
One day last July White re-
ceived a phone call. It was a disappointed Allen, wondering why he was locked out of Flori-
da’s practice gym. His key card 
wasn’t working.
“The key doesn’t work at 
4:30 a.m.,” White said through a smile. 
So far, Allen has been one of 
the few players to see his work pay off in the O’Connell Cen-ter. 
He finished with 32 points on 
10-of-18 shooting against FSU and 18 points on 5-of-11 shoot-ing against Georgia. And his of-fense wasn’t limited to jumpers. 
It included driving layups, tran-
sition dunks and weaving drib-ble-moves into the paint.
“I knew he could do it all 
along,” sophomore guard Chris Chiozza said. “I told him you can score whenever you want. We need you to do that. Play to your full potential.”
His play helped create open 
shots for the rest of his team. Even though Florida missed 21 three-point shots against FSU, 
a fair amount of them were un-
contested.
And if their three-point shots 
aren’t falling, the Gators may have to adjust their style of 
play, like White has suggested 
at times this season.
“We continue to talk about 
if we’re gonna thrive and play 
with energy off of made jump 
shots, and we’re going into a game banking on doing that,” White said, “then it’s insanity.”HOOPS,  from pg 13Florida ranks last 
in conference in three-point shooting 
great teammates.”
Taylor finished his college career 
with 2,108 rushing yards, 23 touch-
downs and ultimately declared for the 2016 NFL Draft before UF's game 
against the Wolverines. 
After the game, Taylor was asked 
about the highlight he was most 
proud of during his time at Florida. 
“Smashing Georgia every year, 
killing those guys,” Taylor said. 
Taylor’s departure leaves a huge 
void at running back for the Gators. His backups — Jordan Cronkrite and 
Jordan Scarlett — are two talented, 
but unproven players. 
Cronkrite played in 13 games 
and rushed for 157 yards and three touchdowns, while adding 89 receiv-ing yards and one touchdown. 
Scarlett, on the other hand, saw 
his struggles on and off the field in his first season in Gainesville, play-ing in just nine games.
Scarlett was in McElwain’s dog-
house on a number of occasions, as he struggled with practice habits that culminated in him not playing four straight games — Kentucky, Tennes-see, Ole Miss and Missouri. 
The Miami native broke out 
against Georgia when he rushed for 96 yards on nine carries. But his sea-son ended prematurely when he was suspended for the Citrus Bowl after 
being cited for marijuana. JUCO running back Mark Thomp-
son — the No. 1 junior college run-
ning back in the 2016 class according to 247Sports — might have a chance to steal carries from Cronkrite and Scarlett when spring practice starts.
But replacing Taylor’s production 
won’t be an easy task for those three. 
Taylor was able to improve dra-
matically in his only season under McElwain after two inconsistent sea-sons under Will Muschamp.    
And even though 2015 was his 
best season at Florida, Taylor won’t stop working to get better as he en-ters the NFL. 
“It’s been a wonderful three 
years. It felt like it went by fast. Felt 
like I just stepped in the All-Amer-
ican game coming up for school,” Taylor said. “But at the same time, you gotta embrace the moment and be thankful for everything. 
“I just know that I still have more 
to do, though. A whole lot more to go and I’m excited.”TAYLOR,  from pg 13His exit leaves questions at running back
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF running back Kelvin T aylor carries the ball during Florida's 41-7 loss to Michigan on Friday at the 
Citrus Bowl in Orlando.
THE ROAD AHEAD
@ T ennessee 7 
vs. LSU Jan. 9
@ T exas A&M Jan. 12
@ Ole Miss Jan. 16
vs. Mississippi State Jan. 16
vs. Auburn Jan. 23
@ Vanderbilt Jan. 26
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
UF men's tennis coach Bryan Shelton reacts during Florida's 9-3 win against William  & Mary on Jan. 10, 2015 at the Ring T ennis Complex.“It’s been a wonderful three 
years. It felt like it went by 
fast. Felt like I just stepped 
in the All-American game 
coming up for school. But 
at the same time, you gotta 
embrace the moment and be 
thankful for everything."
Kelvin T aylor 
UF running back
Hidalgo
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6, 2016
We are seeking volunteers for a study of pain in 
the face and jaw (TMD pain).
(352) 273-7620
SOPPRANO@dental.uﬂ.edu
WANTEDHELP
INTERN POSITIONS
Sales InternSPRING 2016available for
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst hand sales experienceFlexible scheduleMinimum 10-hour work week
email resume to Ms. Jordan Thurn at
intern@alligator.orgReduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterSOFTBALL
By Matt Brannon 
and Brian Lee
Alligator Writers
@MattB_727, @brianlee_17 
The Florida softball team has a 
chance to do something incredible 
this year: become the second team in history to three-peat in the Women’s College World Series.
And the Gators have all the mo-
mentum they need to do so.
UF is coming off a 60-win regular 
season in which it clinched its second 
straight national championship, be-
coming just the third NCAA softball 
program in history to repeat.
The season ended with a 2-1 series 
victory over Michigan, a team riding a 
28-game win streak heading into the 
championship series before getting 
neutralized by the arms of then-fresh-
man Aleshia Ocasio and then-senior 
Lauren Haeger.
Haeger, the 2015 Southeastern 
Conference Pitcher of the Year who also took home SEC Female Player 
of the Year honors, graduated and is 
currently playing professionally for 
the Dallas Charge of the National Pro 
Fastpitch softball league.
Haeger was dominant last season, 
placing among the top pitchers nation-ally in nearly every major statistical category. 
She ranked ﬁ  fth in the country 
with a 1.23 earned run average, was fourth in shutouts with 12 and was the winning pitcher in 32 of the Gators’ 60 victories, tied for sixth-most in the nation.
Haeger also helped power the 
Gators’ offense by hitting .348 with 19 home runs and 71 RBI.
But now she’s gone.While it will be difﬁ  cult to replace 
Haeger’s talent on the ﬁ  eld and her leadership off of it, that is exactly what Florida must do if it wants to become the ﬁ  rst three-peat national 
champion since UCLA did it in 1988, 
1989 and 1990.
To accomplish this, the Gators will 
rely on a strong recruiting class signed 
by coach Tim Walton to compliment a 
group of experienced returning play-
ers.
The highlight of the incoming class 
is Kelly Barnhill, who appears poised 
to take Haeger’s torch as Florida’s 
staff ace, even as a freshman.
The Marietta, Georgia, native was 
a member of 2015 USA Softball Wom-
en’s Junior National Team, where she won a gold medal at the World 
Baseball Softball Confederation Junior Women’s World Championship ear-
lier this year.
While attending Pope High School, 
Barnhill threw 22 no-hitters, including a perfect game in which she struck out all 21 batters she faced. 
In her senior year, she was named 
the USA Today Softball Player of the Year.
In total, the Gators’ recruiting 
class includes one pitcher, three in-
ﬁ  elders, two outﬁ  elders and a catch-er. 
The Gators also have an abundance 
of returning talent. 
The most notable is senior second 
baseman Kelsey Stewart, who led the 
team with an impressive .435 batting 
average in 2015.
Also coming back is fellow senior 
Taylore Fuller, who compiled a ca-reer-best 56 RBI — second most on 
the team — as well as veterans Au-
bree Munro, Kirsti Merritt and Tay-
lor Schwarz. 
With an inﬂ  ux of good young 
players to a roster that was already 
talented, the Gators are threatening 
to make another deep postseason 
run in 2016.
Florida begins its title defense 
on Feb. 12 in the USF Tournament 
against Illinois State. Florida begins road to three-peat
Alligator File Photo
Kelsey Stewart throws to ﬁ  rst base during Florida’s 2-1 win 
against UNF on April 1 at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
