We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 49 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
Florida looking to improve rushing
attack
Mark Thompson and the Gators rank ninth in 
the SEC in rushing yards, see the back page
Four hundred children, parents trick-or-treat
It was at the Thornebrook Village, pg. 3
Two UF dance teams to face oﬀ   in Atlanta
It’s for a regional competition, pg. 5Pharmacy student uses Instagram
to promote clothing drive
He’s asking who wore it better, pg. 4
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
The day after the general elec-
tion, Ronnie Sartain will remove 
the 5-foot purple swastika spray-
painted on his garage door.
By Nov. 9, the anti-semitic sym-bol will have been up for about two weeks. It appeared sometime Tues-day night, he said, with more on his sidewalk and on his campaign signs for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.
Ronnie Sartain, a Trump sup-
porter, said he ﬁ  rst noticed the swastika on the sidewalk in the 3600 block of NW 13th Ave. af-ter he saw Gainesville Police ofﬁ  -cers outside his home Wednesday morning. Then he turned around and saw his garage door.
GPD is currently investigating 
the incident, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. Depending on the motivation, it may be consid-ered a hate crime, he said.
But Ronnie Sartain was not the 
lone target. He said a neighbor, who lives down the street from his 
home, ﬁ  rst a found purple spray-
painted swastika on his white pickup truck Wednesday morn-ing. His neighbor called police and mentioned there were other Trump 
supporters with yard signs living in 
the area and asked the GPD ofﬁ  cer 
to check on the situation.
Ronnie Sartain said he was sur-
prised to see the symbols but re-
solved to keep them up to show 
others what had happened. By 
GNV man leaving swastikas sprayed on Trump sign, garage
SEE VANDALISM,  PAGE 4
THE 500 LIMITED-EDITION 
TANK TOPS WERE GIVEN 
OUT FOR AN AWAY GAME.
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Savannah Lee, 19, camped out 
in front of Emerson Alumni Hall at about 3 a.m. in hopes of receiving a “Beat Georgia” tank top Thurs-day morning. 
The UF psychology and zool-
ogy sophomore said she saw six tents of people waiting before her. But by morning, about 60 people were in line in front of her. By the time she got to the front of the line, after waiting for six hours, she received a hand towel instead of a shirt.
“We realized we had just 
camped out for hours for no rea-son,” she said. 
On Thursday, the student 
members of the UF Alumni As-sociation hosted their fourth Beat T-shirt giveaway of the Fall. More than 800 students stood in line in hopes of receiving one of 500 Students upset after ‘Beat Georgia’ tanks run out in 38 minutes
By Morgan Rynor 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Kyle Mitchusson noticed some-
thing was off as he walked through 
his newly rented one-story home last 
year.
The smell had grown more ap-parent, the white walls noticeably darker, as if something rancid lay be-neath layers of paint. As he climbed 
into his attic, he noticed the walls 
were covered in black mold, a condi-
tion unknown to Mitchusson and his 
roommates when they moved in.
“They were big black circles, some a foot and a half wide,” Mitchusson said. “It wasn’t noticeable at ﬁ  rst be-cause they were painted over.”
Three weeks after Mitchusson 
moved in, the UF exploratory junior 
and his roommates left. Two of them 
later contracted strep throat.
Mitchusson said the landlord knew about the mold when he drew up their lease. The former landlord, Jim Weaver, said he does not re-
member whether he got requests 
from the city to come in and test for 
mold.
“(The tenants) informed me (of 
the mold),” Weaver said, “but, like I said, there was maybe some mold 
in the bathroom, but that’s kind of 
normal if it’s not cleaned that well.”
In Gainesville, landlord-tenant 
disputes are common, and many af-fect UF students. 
Jon Adcock, the director of UF 
Student Legal Services, said he deals 
with at least one case per week re-
garding these disputes.Living in fear: Students challenge landlords over rightsSEE SHIRTS,  PAGE 4
SEE LANDLORD,  PAGE 5Someone vandalized the property Tuesday night
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Students receive white hand towels from Florida Cicerones after missing the cutoff for the limited-edition “Beat Georgia” tank tops at 
Emerson Alumni Hall on Thursday morning. Five hundred tank tops and 1,000 hand towels were ordered prior to being handed out.
County Labor Coalition campaigning for tenants’ rightsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  85° LOW  62°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Spring Awakening’ at UF today 
to Nov. 6
The UF School of Theatre and Dance presents “Spring Awakening” from today to Nov. 6 in the Constans Theatre at the Nadine McGuire Theatre and Dance Pavilion. This Tony Award-winning musical, based 
on the highly controversial and 
oft-censored 1891 play by Frank Wedekind, is a raw and honest portrayal of youth and self-dis-covery. Wendla, Mechior and their friends struggle with an emotional and sexual coming-of-age in defiance of a suppres-sive world of unjust teachers and adults. “Spring Awakening” will make you rediscover the excitement and innocence of youth. Performances are at 7:30 p.m. today, Saturday and Tuesday through Nov. 5 and at 2 p.m. on Sunday and Nov. 6. Tickets for the production are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty/staff and seniors and $13 for students. Tickets are available through the University Box Office. More information is available at arts.ufl.edu.
Gay Movie Night
Gay Movie Night is showing “That’s Not Us” today at 7:30 p.m. at the Pride Community Center, located at 3131 NW 13 St. The movie features three couples (gay, lesbian and straight) in their 20s who travel to a beach house to enjoy the last days of summer. What was meant to be a fun, carefree re-treat transforms into an intimate exploration of sex and commit-ment. Moment to moment, rela-tionships are tested as tensions between the couples and friends begin to simmer. This roman-tic comedy questions what it takes to sustain a healthy long-term partnership. While gen-der and sexuality may vary, the struggles to make love last do not. Gay Movie Night is on the last Friday of every month and is a free service of the Pride Community Center. A $2 dona-tion is requested to help cover the cost of snacks. Like Gay Movie Night on Facebook at facebook.com/135747915702.
The Ocean and the Election
What do next month’s elec-tions mean for the sea? Find out in a free public lecture from ocean journalist David Helvarg on Thursday from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3320. David Helvarg is a long-time ocean journalist and author whose books include “50 Ways to Save the Ocean,” “Saved by the Sea” and “The Golden Shore: California’s Love Affair with the Sea.” In his timely lecture The Ocean and the Election, Helvarg will share responses from the presidential 
candidates and ideas for how 
citizens can make a difference 
on behalf of our oceans and 
coastal communities. Helvarg 
will also share the trauma and 
the wonder he has experienced 
in, on and by the oceans, along 
with powerful imagery to re-
mind us of all of the intimate 
ways our lives are linked to the 
sea. His talk will be followed by 
a book sale and signing.
GatorNights: Haunted Horror 
Reitz
Tonight, GatorNights is stirring 
up some spine-chilling fun at 
Halloween Horror Reitz. Make 
sure to arrive in your spookiest or cutest costume to win a fun prize at our costume contest. 
Come in to get “zombie-fied” by 
a special zombie-makeup artist 
and enter a daunting maze with Gators Humans vs. Zombies. Screams are guaranteed at the 
spookiest and biggest haunt-
ed house yet, covering more 
than half of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom and equipped with special effects. Check out 
what the future has in store 
for you with tarot cards and 
palm-readers. Craft your own slime or unleash your creative 
side by painting your own ce-
ramic skull. Capture this thrill-
ing night at a photo booth and 
brace yourself for the 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. showing of “Don’t 
Breathe.” Midnight Munchies 
this week will be breakfast-
themed. GatorNights is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. 
Attendees must be current stu-
dents to participate and are al-
lowed to bring a maximum of 
one guest to the event.
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest 
Festival will take place Saturday 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
There will be food, entertain-
ment and more than 200 ven-
dors selling arts and crafts. On Saturday, there will be an auc-
tion of donated items from ven-dors from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. For more information, email micaf-est@micanopyfallfestival.org or call 352-466-7026.
Ellen Stroud to discuss the role 
of dead bodies in American environmental historyEnvironmental historian Ellen Stroud from Pennsylvania State University is giving a free lec-
ture Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in 
Smathers Library, Room 100. In 
this lecture, Stroud will examine 
why Americans have generally 
feared, rather than revered, dead 
bodies. Such anxieties about the 
place of corpses and corpse-
disposal practices have shaped 
American landscapes and ideas 
about nature and raise chal-
lenging questions. This event is 
fourth in an eight-part speaker 
series called Death: Confronting 
the Great Divide, during which internationally renowned schol-ars and filmmakers will explore 
unique cultural and histori-
cal confrontations with death. 
For more information about this event, visit humanities.ufl.edu/calendar/20161103-Stroud.
html.
Correction
Seanissey Loughlin said people 
who visit indie flea markets 
should feel inspired to create. 
The Alligator reported other-
wise in a story published Oct. 27 under the headline “Indie flea market to pop up in Gainesville 
this weekend.”
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after 
the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 49
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, 
  Michael Smith, William Clewis
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandFRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s........$45.00  (74.75)
6................$75.00 (103.50)
6+..........$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th StreetBy Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Skunks, sharks and Pikachus 
swarmed the patios of the Thorn-
ebrook Village Shopping Center on 
Thursday evening during its fourth annual trick-or-treating event.
About 400 children and parents, 
dressed in Halloween costumes, collected candy from the 13 small businesses that participated in the event, organized by Thornebrook 
Chocolates.
Sporting a purple crayon cos-
tume and matching wig, Gainesville 
resident Adriana Keen brought her two sons to the candy-ﬁ  lled extrav-aganza after hearing about it from 
her friends.
“It’s an easy family event — 
not too long, and the kids have 
fun,” she said. As she sat down to 
rest, her two sons ran around her. 
Four-year-old Cason dressed as 
Superman, and 2-year-old Hunter dressed as Clark Kent.
Cathleen Blagay, a co-owner of 
Thornebrook Chocolates, said par-
ticipation at the event has increased 
over the years, with a 50-person 
spike in attendance Thursday.
“This is much bigger than last 
year,” she said. “A lot of people 
come back, but we’ve got a lot of 
new people this year.”Among superheroes, princess-
es and cowboys, most attendees 
agreed on what parent-child pair was best-dressed: Sam Hill and his 3-year-old son, Jed, who both wore golden-scaled ﬁ  sh costumes with eyes on their hoods.
Hill, 29, brought his two other 
children as well, both unrecogniz-able under octopus and butterﬂ  y disguises.
The father said his family would 
most likely trick-or-treat in his 
neighborhood Oct. 31 but ﬁ  gured 
two Halloweens were better than one.
“For real Halloween, we’ll prob-
ably be dragons,” he said.Four hundred children, parents 
dress up for trick-or-treat event
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Four-year-old Lilla Hall trick-or-treats wearing a fairy costume at Flying Biscuit Cafe, located at 4150 
NW 16th Blvd., on Thursday evening.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Ellie Lambird, 1, plays behind 25-year-old Maygen West’s dog, Shelby, who is dressed in a Superman costume. Lambird wore a la-dybug costume for her ﬁ  rst time trick-or-treating on Thursday eve-ning at Flying Biscuit Cafe.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
Hannah, 4, wears a “Paw Patrol” costume and plays tag with a dozen other children at Flying Biscuit Cafe on Thursday evening. 
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
painting over it, he said, it would 
be like it never happened.
“It says more to leave it up,” he 
said. “There are people in our com-munity who will physically harm others and their properties for po-litical reasons.”
Eric Anderson was shocked 
when he saw the swastikas on his way to work Wednesday morn-ing. His girlfriend, who lives a few doors down from the Sartains, had told him about the symbols.“Even though people have 
different views, this is a bit far-fetched,” the 49-year-old said. 
Ronnie Sartain’s wife, Linda, 
said she wanted to take them down at first. But her husband insisted those who vandalized their home are cowards who won’t come back.
“It scared me, and it still does,” 
she said. 
This was the first time the 
69-year-olds had put political signs in their yard. Linda Sartain, who put up the sign herself, said this election was too important not to.
Since the incident, Ronnie Sar-tain said the man who owned the vandalized pickup has scrubbed off the symbol, but he prefers to wait. The neighbor offered his and his sons’ help to remove the purple spray paint from Sartains’ garage door Nov. 9, when the Sartains hold their post-election barbecue.
“The people need to know,” 
Ronnie said. “Maybe they’ll decide that they don’t like that type of stuff in their community.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org
VANDALISM,  from pg. 1This is his first time displaying a political sign
Caitlin Ostroff / Alligator Staff
Purple swastikas were spray-painted on the yard sign and garage of Gainesville resident Ronnie Sartain’s house on Tuesday night. Sartain first saw the symbol on his sidewalk before turning around to see it on his garage, the 69-year-old said. He plans to keep the symbols up until after the election to show people what others will do because of politics.
limited-edition teal tank tops that read “Beat Georgia” on the front. But the tank tops ran out just 38 minutes after the event began, 
leaving more than 150 students, 
who had been waiting since the 
early morning, to receive a white hand towel that read “Go Gators!” instead. 
Students who are lifetime 
members of the UAA were able 
to pick up shirts at 9 a.m., while 
annual members had to wait until 9:30 a.m. Typically, the organiza-
tion gives out 1,500 T-shirts for every home game but decided to 
only give out 500 because Satur-day’s game will be played in Jack-sonville. 
Catherine Palmer, who is in 
charge of the shirt giveaways as a student member of UAA, said the first tent was set up at 5:57 p.m., more than 14 hours before the event.
“It was one of the saddest 
crowds I’ve ever seen, especially when those tanks ran out,” she said. 
The shirts were funded by Gei-
co, who is sponsoring the shirts for the year, she said. Palmer said they expected 1,000 people to at-tend the giveaway.  
“I truly do feel bad for all those 
who camped out so early and were not able to get a tank, but we tried to do everything in our power,” she said. 
UF nursing seniors Sara 
Shourds and Zahra Frye walked from their nursing classes across campus to try to pick up a tank top at about 10 a.m. 
“We left class because they 
hadn’t updated their Facebook page,” Shourds, 21, said. “We figured there would still be some left.” 
Two weeks ago, Frye, 22, said 
she arrived at about noon and was able to get a “Beat Missouri” T-shirt. 
“I get that they want it to be 
limited, but 500 is not enough for everyone who signs up for these T-shirts,” Frye said. “Make them limited, make them tanks, but I’m sure you have enough money to get enough for more than 500.” 
Palmer said she understood 
why students were upset. 
“As you can kind of expect, 
there were a lot of negative com-ments, but I think it was over the fact that they camped out and didn’t get a tank,” she said. “So I understand any complaints that did come my way.” 
SHIRTS,  from pg. 1They expected 1,000 people to attend the giveawayTHE DEAL NEEDS 
LEGISLATIVE APPROVAL 
IN ORDER TO CONTINUE.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF has backed out of plans to 
take over a medical research facil-
ity in Orlando. 
In May, officials at the Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discov-
ery Institute were collaborating with UF officials for the university to take control of the institute’s Or-lando location, pending stakehold-ers’ approval. On Thursday, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes con-firmed UF is pulling out of the deal.
“It is unclear how UF can help 
in a timely manner, given the like-ly need for legislative approval,” Sikes wrote in an email. “As such, UF is unable to proceed at this time.” 
Stakeholders who needed to 
agree to the deal included Orange County, the city of Orlando and the state of Florida, according to the Orlando Sentinel. In May, Florida Gov. Rick Scott’s office sent a letter to UF asking for the plan’s details including how it would assist UF in becoming a top-10 university. 
The California-based institute received more than $360 million in incentives to open in 2006 and promised to create 303 jobs in 10 years, according to the Sentinel. 
Recent reports show the insti-
tute was 66 jobs short, according to the Sentinel. Sanford Burnham struggled to get research money from the federal government before planning to have UF take control. 
Sanford Burnham Vice Presi-
dent of Public Affairs Deborah Robison wrote in an email that UF was its first choice to take over the institute.
“We recently learned that UF 
has no plans to proceed with the asset transfer at this time. Thus, SBP is now faced with the need to find another viable alternative,” she said. 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org 
UF pulls out of deal to take over Orlando medical facility
By Lauren Ayers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Through a new Instagram 
campaign, a first-year UF phar-macy master’s student is hoping to kick-start clothing donations 
to the Gainesville homeless com-
munity.
Called the Who Wore it Bet-
ter project, the initiative features 22-year-old Asad Shaikh post-
ing photos of himself wearing 
a piece of donated clothing and 
then photos of a homeless person 
wearing the same clothing. 
In between the photos, he writes, “Who wore it better?” which he said helps humanize the impoverished and encour-ages more people to donate.
“I want to help dispel some of 
the stereotypes that people might have about folks that are home-less,” he said
He added that the idea was 
inspired by side-by-side celebrity photos in magazines.
Although he began the cam-
paign in Tampa in July, Shaikh began devoting more time to it once he moved to Gainesville and started at UF this semester. 
He said he has donated about 80 pieces of clothing since the end of September.
In October, he started volun-
teering at Grace Marketplace in an effort to spread his campaign there.
Cori Krayer, the homeless 
shelter’s director of community engagement, said Shaikh’s pres-ence has helped raise morale among residents.
“He is doing something that 
we can never do enough of, which is bringing more visibility to what we do and the popula-tion that we serve,” she said. Pharmacy student uses Instagram to 
promote clothing drive for homeless
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF pharmacy student Asad Shaikh, 22, poses with a homeless 
man to whom he donated clothing as a part of his Who Wore it Better project, an Instagram campaign Shaikh hopes will kick-start donations to the Gainesville community.
HOW STUDENTS 
REACTED ON FACEBOOK:
• “I’m so glad I have a small jacking-off towel to compensate not getting a tank after waiting for several hours. ” - Evan Sagar
• “Super happy with my highly-exclusive alumni T errycloth towel from the beat shirt giveaway this morning! T otally worth camping out at 3am. ” - Savannah Lee
• “Upsetting that they went so fast, I reallly wanted one!” - Kelly NorthcraftFRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested two men 
Thursday morning for ramming into a deal-
ership’s gate and attempting to steal a car.
At about 3:15 a.m., 
police found Jachuary Flowers, 19, and James E. Boykin, 18, after receiving 
a call about the men tam-pering with the rear gate of the Gainesville Buick GMC dealership, located at 2101 N. Main St., ac-cording to a GPD news 
release. 
An officer drove up to 
the dealership in time to 
see a car smash into the rear gate in an attempt to get inside, according to the release. The driver ran away, and officers set up a large perimeter. 
Officers later found Flowers in the alley 
behind Bohannon’s 1 Stop on North Main Street, according to the release. Boykin was later found trying to hide in front of Florida 
Pest Control, located at 116 NW 16th Ave.
The two had gone into the GMC dealer-
ship’s service center, taking the key box and 
entering several cars. They also removed the tags from three cars, according to the release.
Flowers had sunglasses and power cords 
in his pocket, taken from a car at Bill’s Low Cost Transmissions and Automotive Repair, according to the release. 
Police arrested both men on charges of 
burglary of an unoccupied structure and petty theft. Authorities took them to the Alachua County Jail, where Boykin is be-ing held as of press time without bond and Flowers on a $400 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgGPD: Two men arrested for 
burglarizing car dealership
“Landlords often take advan-
tage of the lack of knowledge that 
students have about their rights as 
tenants,” said Miguel Valdez, the 
coordinator for the Alachua Coun-
ty Labor Coalition.
***
Eventually, representatives of 
the city of Gainesville went to the 
house, located at 5 NW 28th St., 
and condemned it unfit for resi-
dence, Mitchusson said. Weaver 
said the tenants may have con-
tacted the city themselves to come 
in and inspect the home, but he 
said code enforcers did not con-
tact him.
Mitchusson said the city asked 
Weaver to pay back two months’ 
worth of the rent his roommate 
paid, but he refused, arguing Mitchusson still owed him his first month’s rent. When Mitchusson’s sore throat later developed into strep throat, he asked if Weaver 
would pay his medical bills.
Again, he refused.“To be honest,” Weaver said, 
“he may have asked me to pay, but I don’t really remember.”
Mitchusson tried bringing his 
case to a small-claims court but decided he didn’t have enough 
time to go through all of the legal 
work, he said. 
Jason Fults, a co-chair of the 
ACLC, said many people wind up 
in a similar situation.
“Your only real remedy for 
that is to get a lawyer or go to a small-claims court,” he said, 
“which a lot of students and low-
income people aren’t going to go 
through.”
Last month, the social- and 
economic-justice advocacy group 
held a meeting to inform tenants about their rights.
The meeting, which came af-
ter the ACLC was battling its own 
landlord over its renter’s fee, was 
also a way to gauge whether there 
were enough people having issues 
with their landlords to consider it 
a citywide issue and to begin an 
advocacy campaign. More than 50 people — landlords and ten-
ants alike — showed up to the 
meeting. After the initial meeting, 
Three Rivers Legal Services Inc. 
began offering to help low-income 
tenants with landlord disputes, he 
said.
The coalition is now looking for 
help developing a cost-effective way to deal with landlord-tenant 
issues outside of a courtroom.
“Our goal would be to estab-
lish some sort of local establish-
ment where people could go to the 
city or the county if they feel like 
they’ve been treated unfairly and they could get some relief,” Fults said.
***
Since suing her landlord two 
years ago, Lexi Rodriguez has ac-
crued nearly $2,000 in legal fees.
After signing a lease with Union 
Properties of Gainesville when she 
was 17, the UF marketing senior continues to battle the company 
over charges she calls unfair.
It all began when Rodriguez 
and her roommate moved into 
their three-bedroom apartment, 
which she chose not to identify. 
Their landlord said she would find a third roommate and that they 
were not responsible to cover the 
cost of the vacant room, but Ro-
driguez later discovered that was 
not the case, she said.
“I realized they were charging 
me $40 to $50 extra a month for 
rent for two years,” Rodriguez 
said. The discovery came after Rodriguez was evicted from the apartment after her financial-aid money came late.
When Rodriguez moved out 
of the apartment, she made sure 
it was clean. They barely had any 
furniture to begin with, she said.
That’s why she was surprised 
when she and her roommate only received $40 of their $700 security 
deposit back, she said.
A spokesperson for Union 
Properties declined to comment, 
and asked that the name of the 
company not be used in the ar-
ticle.
The yearslong dispute has left 
Rodriguez worried and unsure of how long her finances will allow 
her to litigate. But the hope for ret-
ribution keeps her going, at least 
for now.
“They manipulate college stu-
dents who don’t have a clue,” she 
said.LANDLORD,  from pg. 1It’s not an uncommon situation for students, local legal organizations sayBy Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rena Cohen cried when she read 
she got a perfect score on her Ad-
vanced Placement Statistics exam. When she received the news in a thin envelope from College Board on 
Oct. 14, she was in shock.
One of only three students to re-
ceive the honor nationally, the East-
side High School junior said she still can’t comprehend the weight of her accomplishment.
“I’ll just be going about my 
day, and I’m like, ‘Whoa, this hap-pened,’” the 16-year-old said.
But in Gainesville, Cohen’s feat 
isn’t an isolated incident. It has be-come a tradition for Gainesville pub-lic-school students to receive some of the highest standardized test grades in the nation, said Jackie Johnson, the director of communications and 
community initiatives for Alachua 
County Public Schools.
In 2015, a Buchholz High School 
student missed zero questions on the SAT. That same year, an Eastside student received the highest score, a 36, on the ACT, the principals from both schools said.
Mike DeLucas, the principal of 
Buchholz, said the school currently boasts 12 students who scored in the 99th percentile on the PSAT as juniors.
With magnet programs and ad-
vanced-placement classes at all sev-en Gainesville public high schools — along with dual-enrollment pro-grams at UF and Santa Fe College — the city’s school system has fos-tered an atmosphere of excellence, he said.
UF’s influence on the city’s high 
schools also expands to recent UF graduates becoming teachers, which Johnson said makes a difference in students’ educations.
Gainesville’s AP exam pass rate 
has consistently been above the state and national levels, Johnson said. Citing The Washington Post’s list of 
the best high schools in the country, 
she said Gainesville ranks in the top 3 percent.
“It’s just certainly a tribute to the 
talent and the hard work of our stu-dents,” she said. 
DeLucas also gave credit to the 
county’s rigorous coursework and the support of devoted parents.“There are more outstanding, 
high-quality students today than there ever have been,” he said.
For Cohen, an International Bac-
calaureate student deciding between studying law or journalism in col-lege, the drive for a perfect score was sparked by her former teacher Adam Arduser, who promised his class a free dinner for anyone who could achieve it.
Sometime next month, she and 
three of her classmates will follow up on that offer, she said. And de-spite not setting out to get the score, she said she’s happy Arduser could have “planted that little seed.”
“When I see someone else pursu-
ing their passion, I’m like, ‘Oh, that’s amazing. I should pursue my pas-sion, too,’” she said.
A tradition of excellence behind local student’s perfect AP score
GAINESVILLE’S  
GOOD GRADES
Buchholz High School
2016: 12 PSAT scores in  
 99th percentile. 
2015: 1 perfect SAT score
Eastside High School
2015: 1 perfect ACT score
All seven Gainesville public
high schoolsMagnet programs
AP courses
By Deidry Gomez
Alligator Contributing Writer
Annalisa Rodriguez has spent hours this 
week outside the Reitz Union practicing hip-
hop moves for a regional competition Saturday.
She and about 12 other UF students have 
been practicing for the World of Dance Atlanta 
regional competition into the early morning 
hours, sometimes as late at 7 a.m., for about a week, she said. Her team, Anomaly Dance Crew, will compete against another UF team, Apocalypse Dance Crew.
Though both hip-hop crews have performed 
throughout UF’s campus and the state, this will mark their first time in the regional dance com-petition at the Rialto Center for the Arts. They 
will compete against anywhere from 10 to 20 
other teams from across the country. 
“It’s a big deal. Now-famous groups have 
gone through World of Dance,” said Rodri-guez, the captain of the Anomaly Dance Crew.
Each group will perform one set, the UF ap-
plied physiology and kinesiology junior said. 
To be considered for the competition, 
Anomaly Dance Crew submitted a video of their performance at PhilFest Revolution to 
the organization in September, the 20-year-old 
said. 
If either group gets first, second or third 
place, it’ll advance to the national competition, she said. 
Hae-Yang Chang, the president of Apoca-
lypse Dance Crew, said he’ll be taking seven members to Atlanta.
“It’s a big deal, because World of Dance 
is an internationally known competition that some of the world’s best crews have competed in,” the 20-year-old UF digital arts and sciences junior said.  Two UF dance teams to face 
off in Atlanta competition
WORLD OF DANCE REGIONAL 
COMPETITION BREAKDOWN
Where:  Rialto Center for the Arts in Atlanta
When:  Saturday at 2 p.m.
What:  World of Dance is an international 
urban dance competition
T eams Competing: 10 to 20, including two 
from UFBoykin
Flowers
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
The international farce that is the United Nations
The United Nations Educational, Sci-
entiﬁ  c, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) ratiﬁ  ed a resolution Oct. 
18 denying the Jewish people’s deep 
historical ties to Jerusalem. While the 
resolution acknowledges the “importance of the Old City of Jerusalem and its walls for 
the three monotheistic religions,” the sa-
cred hill is only referred to by its Islamic name, al-Aqsa Mosque/al-Haram al-Sharif. Not only does the resolution make no reference to its Jewish name, Temple Mount, which happens to be con-
sidered the holiest site in Judaism, but it distinctly puts 
quotation marks around “Western Wall Plaza,” a subtle attack on the legitimacy of its Jewish connection.
While the resolution is shameful, it should come as 
no surprise. What began as an international institution meant to promote peace and cooperation has instead become a vehicle for anti-American and anti-Zionist propaganda for many decades now.  Rather than focus on legitimate human-rights violations around the globe, 
the U.N. has instead focused obsessively on Israel, the 
only Jewish state. Just to give an idea, the U.N. Gen-eral Assembly’s 2015 session adopted 20 resolutions against Israel. Meanwhile Iran, North Korea and Syria 
received only one resolution apiece. The Syrian govern-
ment alone is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Syrian citizens.
Not only has the U.N. turned a blind eye to viola-
tions of human rights, it has actually rewarded such 
behavior. Countries such as China, Cuba and Venezuela 
currently sit on the U.N. Human Rights Council, and un-til last month, it was chaired by none other than Saudi Arabia, a country that beheads its citizens in public for 
“crimes” like apostasy and adultery and is responsible 
for thousands of civilian deaths in Yemen.While it may seem ironic that the very 
institution that voted for the conception of Israel now attempts to bully it into submis-
sion, the origins of such blatant corruption 
and bias begin with the Cold War. In 1955, the “non-aligned movement” was conceived to ensure “the national independence, sov-
ereignty, territorial integrity and security 
of non-aligned countries” in their “struggle against imperialism, colonialism, neo-co-
lonialism, racism, and all forms of foreign aggression, occupation, domination, interference or hegemony as 
well as against great power and bloc politics.” Since 
then, the U.N. has served as a mechanism for both an-ti-Americanism and anti-Zionism, which were viewed during the Cold War as two sides of the same Western, 
colonialist coin.
However, it seems the U.N. has not changed much 
since then. From the infamous Resolution 3379 of 1975 
that determined that “Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination” to the most recent resolution 
erasing 2,000  years of Jewish history, the U.N. has 
wandered far from its mission, which was “to reafﬁ  rm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men 
and women and of nations large and small,” according 
to its U.N. charter.
Unfortunately, it appears the once-honorable insti-
tution has strayed very far from those principles. The U.N.’s unhealthy obsession with Israel reveals its deeper 
moral corruption and deterioration. Rather than engag-
ing in conﬂ  ict resolution and condemnation of human-rights violations, it has instead opted for scapegoating, propaganda and conﬂ  ict perpetuation. 
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science and telecom-
munication senior. His column appears on Fridays.You can’t believe you’re getting your ﬁ  rst tattoo. It’s the 
one you’ve always thought about getting. The inﬁ  nity sign 
with Chinese characters in one loop and barbed wire in the 
other. “All right, that about does it,” the artist says as he reaches to get a mirror. He holds up the mirror behind you, and you can’t believe what you’re going to have to live 
with for the rest of your life. It’s not the inﬁ  nity sign with 
Chinese characters and barbed wire in it. It’s just two words and an ampersand in between. Every time you take your shirt off and someone’s behind you, they’ll politely pretend to ignore the tattoo big with bold lettering that reads…
It’s been an exciting week, dear readers. Early voting has 
ofﬁ  cially started, and many students have already submit-
ted their ballots for counting. We give a laurel to all of you 
out there who have already cast your ballots. Seriously, 
we can’t wait for this train wreck of an election cycle to be over, and early voting helps us get it out of the way sooner. 
Maybe. Not really.
Even closer than Election Day is another favorite holi-
day: Halloween. Here at UF, we have a hotline for those 
who are distressed by costumes they deem inappropriate, marginalizing or offensive. 
While we’re all against overreacting here at the Alligator, 
it seems the hype against overreacting is a massive overre-action in itself. Irony at its ﬁ  nest: The people who make fun of hypersensitivity are themselves the most hypersensitive. 
We lob a dart at you ironic crybabies for being the real 
thin-skinned annoyances.
Seriously, though, that hotline is available not only for 
students “triggered” by costumes, but it’s also for students 
who feel distressed for literally any other reason. Prank-
calling takes time away from respondents who answer the 
calls of students with very real and very serious problems. We lob another dart at the folks with too much time on 
their hands, prank-calling what is actually an amazing 
service.
Speaking of Halloween, the clown sightings seem to 
have slowed down. We here at the Alligator are grateful 
these people ﬁ  gured out there are better things to do with their evenings than dress up and spook people. We drape a 
laurel on the makeup-free heads of the former evening-
shift clowns. Really, leave the clowning around to the pro-fessionals.
Honestly, we’re all surrounded by clowns in one way 
or another. One California jokester dressed up like a con-struction worker and carried a sledgehammer around Hol-lywood, using it to smash Donald Trump’s star on the Hol-lywood Walk of Fame. 
Originally, he was going to steal the star, sell it and do-
nate that money to women who have come forward about Trump’s alleged sexual misconduct. We give you the lauri-
est of laurels, funny fake construction man, for making 
political protest entertaining and meaningful.
You know what’s not funny, though, dear readers? The 
fact that 58 percent of the world’s wildlife has disappeared since 1970, according to a recent report from the Zoological Society of London and the World Wide Fund for Nature. C’mon, fellow humans, we can do better than this. We only 
have one earth (that we know of), and we’re really blowing 
it. We need this planet to be healthy and diverse: It’s good for us. We present a dart to you, human race, for slowly 
destroying the one good planet we have.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Julian Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgDarts & LaurelsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
The world in 2016 might look and feel 
like a never-ending (and rapidly ex-
panding) dumpster ﬁ  re, but the real-
ity is that the dumpster ﬁ  re is not 
actually growing. Instead, it's slow-
ing down.
As author and keynote speaker Ray 
Kurzweil stated earlier this year, “People 
think the world is getting worse ... That’s 
the perception. What’s actually happening 
is our information about what’s wrong in 
the world is getting better.”
We are currently living in the middle of 
the information age; some are now calling 
it the golden age of information. The advent 
of technology has brought with it copious 
amounts of data and ways to collect and 
manage it. The access to such informa-
tion has proved to be both a blessing and a curse, depending on how you look at it.
Kurzweil is certainly correct about the 
improvement of information access in the 
modern world, but I am skeptical of those 
who claim the world is only getting better. 
Such claims are nearly impossible to back up without getting into an argu-
ment with the other side over the 
validity of sources or the subjec-
tive nature of certain measures. 
By the way, what is your deﬁ  ni-
tion of “better”?
I don’t think the world is get-
ting worse, but I don’t think it is necessarily getting better, either. 
It’s simply existing, and we are all 
trying to ﬁ  gure out how to turn it 
into the world each of us thinks is optimal.
Sure, the world is improving in many 
areas. Much progress is being made in the 
area of medicine. More and more people are 
gaining access to life-changing technology, 
and people’s lives are getting better because 
of it. 
Those born into impoverished countries 
now have a better chance of making it out than they did 20 years ago, and access to 
education for all people has gone up sig-
niﬁ  cantly this century. Overall productivity 
is rising and the rapidly expanding world 
economy is giving more people a chance at economic gain who wouldn’t oth-
erwise have it.
If you only paid attention to 
these trends, the world would 
look quite great and the future 
bright. But, as in everything, 
there’s another side to this coin, 
and neglecting it is not only an act of deceivingly blissful ignorance, 
but it's also forgetting those di-
rectly affected. For a while after 
the Cold War, world conﬂ  ict did decrease, but according to an interview done by NPR, 
the United Nation’s Human Security Report 
found there was an actual turning point 
around 2010 to 2011. Since this time, con-
ﬂ  icts and the number of people killed by 
them have increased notably.
Combine this with the fact that more 
and more people have unlimited access to an inﬁ  nitely growing pool of information, 
and you can easily see the concern. Today, 
even the smallest skirmishes in the farthest 
corners of the globe can make it to the front 
page in a matter of hours. The result is a hypersensitive relationship between news 
outlets and the people eagerly consuming 
the headlines they churn out.
Despite the recent increase in conﬂ  ict, 
it’s important to note its overall relativity. 
According to the NPR source, “Even though 
the level of violence that we have at the mo-
ment is pretty horrendous, compared with the 1960s, '70s, '80s, it’s relatively small.”
In other words, there might be more con-
ﬂ  ict now than 50 years ago, but it’s worth 
noting there’s also about 4 billion more 
people on Earth now than there were back 
then. Earth’s population has more than 
doubled since the 1960s, and just like every 
social situation you could ﬁ  nd yourself in, 
the presence of more people will increase 
the chances that some of them will not get 
along.
People will never completely agree; it’s 
simply how we are wired. But it is encour-aging to know that the relative amount of 
conﬂ  ict is looking more optimistic.
Andrew Hall is a UF business administra-
tion junior. His column appears on Fridays.Keep things in perspective, because the world may not be as bad as it seemsColumn
With the presidential election just 
around the corner, ‘tis the season for unsolicited arguments about political and social issues. Instead of spouting nonsense about why I 
think people should believe a certain way, I want to share some of my personal reasons for voting, with the hopes that they might give some of you a reason to vote in the upcoming election.
I will vote because I don’t want to live in a 
world where the earth and its natural resourc-es come second to human greed. It’s a horrify-ing reality that, even while we are living in a highly developed country, some of our water sources have been contaminated by sediments and gases from drilling and hydraulic fractur-ing. I want to have a president and a Congress that will help pass legislation to ensure future generations won’t have to worry about wheth-er they’ll have access to clean drinking water or breathable air.I will vote because I want to 
have rights to my own body. I do not believe anyone — especially not a bunch of complete strangers in government — should be able to tell me what I can and cannot do with my body, especially in the case of an unwanted pregnancy. I want to be able to choose to go through with a pregnancy or choose to ter-minate it without the government’s interference, without being condemned by my peers and especially without the argument that it goes against certain religious beliefs that may or may not be my own.
I will vote because it’s not fair that, at this 
point, it seems human rights have a hard time extending past heterosexual, cisgender white people. If I were to ever have children, I would want them to be able to feel conﬁ  dent in their identity, and I would want them to not be afraid to love whomever they may love. I want my friends and family to be able to walk out of their houses to take a stroll down the street at night and not feel unsafe because of how strangers may react to the color of their skin. I want to help elect peo-ple who will make an effort to get a handle on the conﬂ  ict between citi-zens and police, because although there are so many great and re-spectable individuals protecting our 
citizens, there are also some who abuse their power with violence and fear tactics, and that is not OK.
I will vote because I am scared out of my 
mind as to what would happen if an extreme-ly close-minded, xenophobic, irrational and unqualiﬁ  ed individual were elected to be the Oval Ofﬁ  ce. I’m afraid that a candidate with a platform fueled by fear and hatred will anger other world leaders and cause extreme con-ﬂ  ict. I’m afraid for immigrants living in this country, even those who are here legally, be-cause of the way they have been portrayed as murderers, rapists and terrorists. I’m afraid for women who live in this country, especially when conversations about sexual assault are written off as “locker room talk.” I’ve been to the rallies and experienced ﬁ  rsthand the out-right aggression directed toward people who have different beliefs. At the end of the day, I’m afraid for this country as a whole if we al-low the embodiment of hatred and ignorance to take ofﬁ  ce.
Whether you believe it or not, your vote 
matters. If you are registered, please vote for individuals and policies that reﬂ  ect what you want our country to stand for. Unsatisﬁ  ed with the candidates? This is why it’s so important to vote in all elections, not just the big ones. You might be surprised at how different things could be if we voted from the bottom up.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science 
senior. Her column appears on Fridays.
Every vote matters: why I am choosing to vote this year and why you should, tooColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Alexa DeLoera
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
By Lauren Ayers
Alligator Contributing Writer
Sport Clips Haircuts, a hair sa-
lon franchise catering to men, has 
opened its ﬁ  rst Gainesville loca-
tion.
The salon, located at 2231 NW 
13th St., features ﬂ  at-screen TVs 
and a Gators-themed interior de-
sign.
About 100 people ﬂ  ooded into 
the salon during its grand opening 
Tuesday, some ordering the salon’s signature “MVP” haircut package, 
which comes with a neck-and-shoulder massage, a steamed face 
towel and a shampooing for $22. 
Standard cuts start at $17.
Store manager Lauren Vazquez 
said most clients enjoy the no-ap-
pointment salon’s laid-back atmo-sphere, from the orange-and-blue 
interior to the black-and-white ref-
eree uniforms employees wear.
“They are treated like kings,” 
she said. “Everyone is treated 
nicely. They get a good haircut and 
walk out feeling good.”
She said the salon — open Mon-
days through Fridays from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. — has seen a steady 
stream of clients since its open-
ing, and that the company plans to open a second location in Decem-ber in Butler Plaza North.
After receiving a free-haircut 
coupon, UF education senior Jon Heavner got a haircut at the salon Thursday. It was his ﬁ  rst time at a Sport Clips, but he said he enjoyed 
the sports-themed concept.
“I love the big-screen TVs 
and the sports feel,” the 23-year-
old said. “It’s like a Buffalo Wild Wings for haircuts.”Sport Clips Haircuts comes to Gainesville
Courtesy to the Alligator
Employees pose at Sport Clips Haircuts, located at 2231 NW 
13th St., which opened on Tuesday to a rush of about 100 people. Many ordered the salon’s signature “MVP” package, which includes a neck-and-shoulder massage, a steamed face towel, a shampooing and a haircut.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
LUMOS MAXIMA
From left: Andrea Drausal marks on a “Harry Potter” event checklist for UF computer science graduate student Sakshi Garg, 23, in the light of the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, which was transformed into a replica of Dumbledore’s Army Training Camp on Thursday night. Drausal, a 21-year-old family, youth and community sciences junior and member of Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s special events committee, said attendees could sign a Dumbledore’s Army scroll and get a button for visiting two stations.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Researchers find wrong 
information on Spanish health websites
A recent study has found that Span-
ish websites lack accurate information about losing weight. 
The study was conducted from Feb-
ruary 2016 to July 2016 by researchers in the UF College of Medicine’s Depart-ment of Health Outcomes and Policy.
In the study, researchers compared 
information on websites with more reli-able sources such as hospital and uni-versity websites. Websites were scored from “excellent” to “nothing” in terms of accuracy, said Michelle Cardel, a professor in the department. 
Researchers wanted to evaluate the 
quality of information, using search en-gines to ﬁ  nd and assess Spanish web-sites about weight loss. 
Cardel said few reputable websites 
were in the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve entries of the Spanish-language searches.
François Modave, a UF professor of 
health outcomes and policy, said he and colleagues at Texas Tech Universi-ty Health Sciences Center El Paso con-ducted the same study in 2014 regard-ing English websites and found more accurate results on the sites. 
“The key message for the study is 
for Spanish speakers to get information from reputable sources,” he said. 
Cardel and Modave are planning on 
creating an informatics tool to iden-tify the quality of information on sites about weight loss.
- Rosanne RamrajIrrigation app helps Florida avocado growers save water
 
Farmers can now use an app to 
make sure their avocados get just enough water. 
UF’s Institute of Food and Ag-
ricultural Sciences developed the app, called SmartIrrigation Avocado, which could save farmers between 20 percent and 50 percent on water to irrigate their crops, according to a  recent UF/IFAS study.
The app helps farmers know 
when they need to water their avo-cados through a 15-day schedule that shows weather averages from the previous ﬁ  ve days, said Kati Migliac-cio, a UF professor of agriculture and biological engineering and the lead author of the study.
Migliaccio said the researchers 
don’t have concrete numbers about how much money and water the app saves because farmers used different amounts before the app.
The app, funded by the Florida 
Department of Agriculture and Con-sumer Services, focuses on farmers in the Miami-Dade area, where most of Florida’s avocados are grown. Avoca-dos account for much of the state’s agricultural economy, Migliaccio said, with a crop production of $23.5 million in 2013. 
“The goal was to link people who 
make irrigation decisions with data and some simple calculations to make them in a better way,” she said.
- Olivia OotenUF researchers find method for future meth-addiction therapy
New discoveries made by UF health re-
searchers in neuroscience may help reduce 
the effects of methamphetamine in the brain.
In a study ﬁ  nished earlier this month, 
researchers looked at the effects of meth on the ﬁ  ring activity of neurons, said Danielle Sambo, a UF neuroscience graduate student and one of the lead researchers of the study that started about a year ago. The study found a targeted method to use in the future for addiction therapy, she said.  
Overall, the goal of the study was to 
identify speciﬁ  c parts of the brain that can 
be targeted to decrease the effects of meth. 
“There’s been a lot of research done on 
cocaine and how cocaine affects the dopa-
mine system, but a lot less is understood about meth,” Sambo said. “That’s why, as a lab, we’ve taken more interest in under-standing how meth works because there’s still a lot that’s unknown about it.”
The study looked at two primary meth-
ods to see how meth causes the brain to re-lease dopamine, a chemical released during pleasurable behaviors, Sambo said. Neu-rons normally release dopamine through the ﬁ  rst method, which is called increased vesicular release, in which pockets of dopa-mine get released.
Through the second method, reverse 
transport, meth also releases dopamine 
through a protein, Sambo said.
After giving test mice dopamine neurons 
and studying their brain recordings, re-
searchers were able to ﬁ  nd that the second method might be more important when un-derstanding how meth increases dopamine release, Sambo said.
- Gabby RodriguezUF researchers earn nearly $2 million 
grant  to study patients with tremors
Two UF researchers received a grant of nearly 
$2 million to study a degenerative brain disorder.  
UF neurosurgery professor Dr. Kelly Foote 
and professor Aysegul Gunduz received the 
$1.986 million grant from the National Institutes 
of Health to conduct a ﬁ  ve-year study to look at 
essential tremor, an incurable degenerative brain disorder that results in increasingly debilitating tremors.
Foote and Gunduz, along with UF neurology 
professor Dr. Michael Okun, started collaborating in 2012. Foote, Gunduz and Okun are working with Medtronic, a company that makes medical devices, to develop deep brain stimulators that 
record brain activity in patients with tremors.
Their goal is to be able to understand the brain 
signals enough to pinpoint movement intentions 
that would then allow people who can’t move their bodies due to injury or disease to be able to control a computer with their thoughts, Gunduz said.
“By comparing their brain signals when 
they’re not tremoring versus when they are trem-
oring, we can basically pinpoint what the patho-
logical activity is,” she said.
The “closed-loop system” in the brain is simi-
lar to an automatic air-conditioning system, she said. The same way air-conditioning systems turn air on or off depending on the temperature, the stimulator will turn on and off to bring the brain to a healthy state. 
The three researchers plan to recruit patients 
who experience tremors when they start mov-ing, speciﬁ  cally when they’re trying to reach for something.
Gunduz said she, along with Foote and Okun, 
hope to apply what they learn from the study to other movement disorders, neuropsychiatric dis-orders and possible neuroprosthetic applications.
- Christy Piña FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   11-15-16-20-2
2 BDRM 1BA Parquet wood floor. Like new BA w/Tile floor. Newly carpeted BDRMS w/ceiling fans. Like new Kit appliances. W/D Cent. H/A. Internet/Cable available. On bus rte. Sorry no pets. $715/mo. Call 727-423-9463 E-mail jlglackin@yahoo.com    11-10-16-12-2Duplex for rent 2 BR/1 bath. central heat-air. Fenced backyard. washer/dryer for use on 
site. New gas stove. Close to 2 city parks. 
$600/ month with $500 deposit. 3214 NW 
20th St. 352-376-4581 11-1-3-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      10-28-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosFRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
2002 Toyota Rav4, clean title, all papers 
available, smoke free, no rust, no accidents, 2.0L I4 Engine, AWD, White with Tan , 112K miles. $2900 You can get in touch with me by phone at 3177218798      10-28-5-12
2001 Toyota Tacoma
V6 4dr Double Cab 4WD , automatic, $2900, 
gasoline, 177.000 mi. . Call at 7852518737     
10-31-16-5-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1998 Ford Explorer, great condition,
leather interior, must see to appreciate. 
$1,500 OBO. Call 352-281-8623    10-31-
16-5-12CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647      10-28-1-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
Designated drivers are the greatestGamers, be one of the first to download  
a live interactive sports app for IPhones and Android. Play the game, share the game, and earn points that can win you sports memorabilia, game tickets. This app is set to launch in the fall of 2016. Go to FireFan.com, enter prom code sm1795 to preregister    10-27-16-3-13
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsi -
bility for injury or loss arising from con -
tacts made through advertising. We sug -
gest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giv
-
ing out personal information or arrang -
ing meetings or investing money.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14Love Hiking or Running?P/T position avail- to work with like minded folks.20 hr/wk inc Sat. or Sun. a must. Apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports.1504 NW 13 St. 1 m N of UF    11-2-16-5-14
Entry Level Heavy EquipmentOperator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497      10-28-1-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Part time. Must love to work with kids. Free training for teaching beginner Fencing Classes. No experience required. Must have own car. Pay $15 per hour with max monthly income of $480. Send resume to kkvols@floridafencingacademy.com     10-28-16-5-14
Swimming/Synchronized Swimming Part-time coaches provide conditioning and/or synchronized swimming instruction 2-4 hours/wk. Send resume toinfo@synchrogainesville.com.     10-31-16-6-14
ACROSS
1 Arafat’s
successor
6 City near Yorba
Linda
10 Brief responses
to common
concerns
14 Composer of a
seven-movementwork thatexcludes Earth
15 Tach count
16 “... even now / __
myself to thy
direction”:“Macbeth”
17 “What’s My
Line?”
comedian’s craftbrewery?
19 Sail support
20 R.E.M.’s “The __
Love”
21 Heifetz’s 
teacher
22 Present
23 Pop diva’s fruit
stand?
27 City of northern
Spain
29 David and Bird
30 American Idol
winner’samusementchain?
34 In a blue state35 Nile reptile
36 Corvallis sch.
39 Rapper’s
shopping 
centerproperties?
45 Equally 
speedy
48 Forest bovine
49 Guitarist’s cash
registercompany?
53 Collate
54 Film on water55 Toddler’s drink58 Farm opening?59 “Whose Line Is It
Anyway?”comedian’sflooring store?
61 Número de
Mandamientos
62 Frank of 1950s
Broadway
63 Basketwork 
fiber
64 Bone-dry
65 Hwy. crossings66 Jai alai basketDOWN
1 “Understood”
2 Windfall
3 Symbol of
happiness
4 Had ambitions
5 Mess
6 Big name in
coffee makers
7 Civil War
signature
8 __ other:
alternating
9 Sancho’s “steed”
10 Pole users
11 Materialize
12 Slate source
13 Burnout cause
18 Squelched24 Forest’s 2006
Oscar-winningrole
25 35mm camera
option
26 Where the Indus
flows: Abbr.
27 IHOP orders
28 U.S. news source
since 1942
31 Slump
32 Tire pressure
meas.
33 Parody
36 Veterans of the
briny
37 __-pitch38 Steel giant, as it
was known from
1986-2001
39 Cleanse
spiritually
40 Book ending41 Co. merged into
Verizon
42 Moves in a
school
43 .001 of an inch44 Omniscient45 Syrian ruling
family46 Cheap smoke47 “Cyrano de
Bergerac” BestActor (1950)
50 “Bye Bye Bye”
band
51 Meager52 iPod contents56 Shoemaker’s strip57 Where to find 
36-Down
59 British rule in India60 Hold ’em tell,
maybe
By Darin McDaniel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/28/1610/28/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 28, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedFRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHER – Get FAA approved training in weeks not years to become a certified aircraft dispatcher.  Job placement assistance. Call AIM 888-242-2649.       10-28-1-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305         10-28-1-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
15 Services 16 Health Services 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida women's golf coach 
Emily Glaser has options heading into the spring season after a strong showing in fall tournaments. Read the story, pg 16UF women's basketball ranked in preseason poll
The Gators' women's basketball program will open its season ranked No. 24 
in the USA T oday coaches poll, which was revealed on Thursday. It marks the seventh time the program has been ranked in the preseason, with the most recent coming in 2001-02. By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
 
Julia Lester stood attentively 
at the top of the penalty box as 
Gabby Seiler’s corner kick sailed 
toward Missouri’s net.
The freshman defender 
watched as the ball was headed 
twice — once by Florida’s Pa-
mela Begic and once by Mis-
souri’s Jasmine Johnson — be-fore it ricocheted right to her.
Lester didn’t hesitate, blast-
ing a shot from more than 50 
feet away past the goalkeeper 
and into the upper-right corner of the post. 
Overjoyed with her second 
goal of the season, she leapt into fellow defender Rachelle Smith’s arms as the rest of her teammates mobbed her at mid-field.
Lester’s strike in the 36th 
minute proved to be the dif-ference for UF, as the No. 17 Gators (13-4, 8-3 Southeastern Conference) defeated the un-
ranked Tigers (11-6-1, 6-4-1 
SEC) 1-0 on Thursday night in the team's final regular-season match of the year.
Both teams’ defenses domi-
nated from start to finish, led by goalkeepers Kaylan Marckese and Kelsey Dossey.
Marckese recorded her sev-
enth shutout of the fall for Florida, making four saves. The sophomore from St. Petersburg concluded her 2016 regular sea-
son campaign having played 
every minute behind net for UF while sporting a 75.3 percent save percentage.
Dossey was just as good for 
Missouri, though, recording five saves — including numer-ous diving stops — that helped keep her team’s deficit at just 
one goal.
Offensively, the Gators and 
Tigers were evenly matched 
throughout the night. 
Florida was outshot by a to-
tal of 16-to-14 but put up three more shots on goal than Mis-souri.
And despite not scoring, se-
nior Florida forward Savannah Jordan was impressive in the fi-nal regular season contest of her career. She led the Gators with 
6 total shots, including two on 
goal. The All-American finished 
the fall with a statline of 13 
goals, eight assists and 34 points 
and is currently the frontrunner for SEC Offensive Player of the Year.
Thursday’s victory means 
Florida will enter postseason play as the No. 4 seed in next week’s SEC Tournament held in Orange Beach, Alabama. 
The Gators will face Missouri 
once again in the competition’s quarterfinal round on Wednes-day.
UF has won three of the past 
six league tournaments and has been crowned conference cham-pions 11 total times.
@dylandixon
ddixon@alligator.orgFlorida closes regular season with shutout 
Site: EverBank Field (Cap. 
82,871)
Kickoff: 3:30 p.m.
TV /Radio: CBS/Gators IMG Sports Network
Ahh, rivalries. 
They make life interesting. More 
importantly, they make sports inter -
esting. 
Think about it: What would Satur -
days be like without Florida-Georgia? Michigan-Ohio State? UCF-Connecti
-
cut?
Unthinkable.This week, we’ll take some time to 
analyze some of the most heated and hate-filled rivalries of our millennium 
and issue the clear winner of the two.
1. Peanut Butter vs. Jelly
Peanut Butter and Jelly go great to
-
gether, so you may not think this is a rivalry. 
But don’t get it twisted. These two 
hate each other.
Haven’t you ever heard the phrase 
“opposites attract”? 
Yeah. Case closed.Peanut Butter takes this in a land
-
slide, purely for the fact that its’ multi -
faceted nature allows it to act indepen -
dently as a delicious snack at 3 a.m. 
Plus, no one opens their fridge and 
digs into a jar of jelly.
2. Moe’s vs. ChipotleChipotle, and only because its 
employees don’t scream “Welcome to (insert name of restaurant here)!” when you walk in the door. Just take my money and give me food.
3. Alligator vs. CrocodileIn deciding the winner between 
these two reptiles, the Independent Florida Alligator would like to rec
-
ognize that it may have a bias and therefore cannot render an impartial decision. Therefore, no winner will be announced. 
(Alligator.)
4. Milk Chocolate vs. Dark Choc
-
olate
Chocolate isn’t supposed to be bit -
ter, you weirdos. Milk chocolate wins.
5. Hard Shell vs. Soft Shell Tacos
Soft shell, always and forever. If 
you disagree, you’re not alone. Please send all hate emails to our online 
editor and lifetime hard-shell-taco 
supporter Patrick Pinak (ppinak@al
-
ligator.org), who welcomes any and 
SEE PICKS,  PAGE 15Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Julia Lester (20) battles for possession during Florida's win over UCF at James G. Pressly Stadium on Sept. 18
PICKS
Defender Julia Lester scored the game's only goalall discussion on the topic. If he 
doesn’t respond the first time, he probably just didn’t see it. Keep spamming him with emails and you’ll have made a new hard-shell-
taco friend in no time.
Debating the rivalry game of the 
week between science and religion 
are sports editor Ian Cohen and as
-
sistant sports editor Ethan Bauer.
Science will win because…Science is fact. Science is impar
-
tial. Science is law.
Also, have you ever built a mini-
volcano for science class? That s--- is the bomb.
Case closed.
-Ian Cohen
Religion will win because…
Science may be fact, but with 
God on your side, fact means noth
-
ing. And for only four easy pay -
ments of $19.95 deposited directly to my Venmo account, I will per
-
sonally contact God and tell him to defy fact, bias and law on your behalf.
Praise be. -Ethan Bauer
Now, onto the picks!
Starting things off, we have a tie 
for first place with records of 33-
28-1.
First is the Gainesville Sun’s 
Graham “Bandwagon” Hall, who 
suddenly became a Cleveland 
Cavalier fan when they got LeBron James back and will undoubtedly announce his lifelong allegiance to the Cleveland Indians if they win the World Series. I like rooting for cities with a history of losing and hardly any championships as much as the next guy, but bless you, sir. 
No one voluntarily chooses to be a 
Cleveland sports fan.Next is sports writer Ian “snif
-
fles” Cohen, who, when asked to describe himself in as few words as possible, said, “Some people are born pretty. Some are born smart. I sneeze a lot.” Yes, Ian. You really, 
really do. We’ll give you points for 
your creative self portrait of sorts, though. 
We also have a tie for third 
place with a record of 30-32-1.
First is GatorCountry.com’s 
Nick “My Milkshakes Bring All The Boys To The Yard” de la Torre, who once consumed seven milkshakes over the course of three days while covering college baseball games at the University of Miami baseball 
stadium, famous for their “Mark 
Light MilkShakes.” Bet it was a long night in the gym burning off those unneeded calories, muscle guy.
Next is sports writer Ethan “Or
-
ange and Blue” Bauer, who didn’t agree with the fact that wearing a orange shirt with a “semi” blue tie to Florida’s football game against Georgia on Saturday is considered 
biased. A quick Google search re
-
veals that there are 10 million vis -
ible colors that the human eye can 
see. Do us all a favor, Ethan, and pick one of the other 9.998 million ones. 
We have another tie for fifth 
place with a record of 28-34-1.
First is the Orlando Sentinel’s 
Edgar “Technology Guru” Thomp
-son, who is light years ahead of the journalism game with the monopod he brings to football media. All he has to do is figure out how to use it.
Next is sports writer Patrick 
“You Like My Tank, Bro?” Pinak, who has taken a liking to wear
-
ing tank-tops instead of normal T-shirts lately. Looks like someone wants to show off that physique from playing club baseball during the week. Oh please, Patrick, tell 
us again about the time you hit a 
home run in high school!
You guessed it. Another tie, this 
time in dead-ass last with a piss-poor record of 36-36-1.
First is sports writer Jordan “ge
-
neric” McPherson, who wears ex -clusively solid-colored, unmarked clothing or his trademarked short-sleeved flannel shirts. We know you don’t want to be biased, Jor
-
dan, but we promise no one will be offended by the Miami Marlins t-shirt you probably have stowed away under your bed to wear around your room when no one’s 
looking. Then again, who could 
blame you? That sounds like a pret
-
ty fun Friday night to us, too. 
Second is 247Sports.com’s 
Thomas “impatient” Goldkamp, who stormed away from a media 
scrum around a football player ear
-
lier this week after he couldn’t get 
a question in. Go on Thomas, use that loud voice of yours to get your question in next time.PICKS,  from pg. 14
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
THE GATORS 
EXPERIMENTED WITH 
DIFFERENT LINEUPS 
THROUGHOUT THE FALL.By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
At the beginning of the Fall 
season, there were very few ques-tions about how well the Gators 
women’s golf team would play.
UF was fresh off senior Maria 
Torres’ ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  nish at the 2016 Southeastern Conference Championship and a tied-for-ﬁ  rst- 
place overall ﬁ  nish at the NCAA 
Regional Championship.
But then, Florida added two 
more freshmen ready to contribute to a team returning all ﬁ  ve of last 
season’s regular starters. 
This made the fall seem like a 
tryout period for the spring, when 
the Gators will need their best ﬁ  ve 
golfers playing.
And over the course of four 
tournaments, the Gators experi-
mented, playing eight golfers. 
Coach Emily Glaser wants to 
ﬁ  nd the players who separate themselves from the rest by the time the spring season arrives.
“A little bit of that plays into 
what they did this fall,” Glaser said, “but certainly we just rub the slate clean and start over again in the spring with some qualiﬁ  ers that will show us who’s playing the best at the time.”
Glaser added that Florida’s 
depth is a testament to how tal-ented the team really is. 
Florida took the title at the 
Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Cham-
pionship in September and placed 
within the top ﬁ  ve in every tour-nament of the season.
And they did so with a different 
lineup each time.
During its fall schedule, the 
Gators also faced more than 20 ranked teams and played in harsh-er environments than what the 
team was used to.
“I thought (the Windy City 
Classic) was (a) particularly im-
portant event to attend this year, 
as the national championship is about an hour and a half down the 
road this year,” Glaser said. 
“Anytime we can get on bent-
grass greens, I think that’s go-
ing to prepare our team for what 
we’re going to see in the spring.”
As Glaser alluded to, the Spring 
season is where everything — the depth, the conditions, the results 
— really matters.
The SEC Championship, the 
NCAA Regionals and the NCAA 
Championship all take place in the 
spring, as do six additional tourna-
ments the Gators will compete in.
That’s a lot of time for Florida 
to set its ﬁ  nal lineup, and a lot of time to determine the future of 
this Gator team. 
According to Glaser, there is 
still plenty of time for the Gators 
to establish who their starting ﬁ  ve 
should be, and the Fall season was 
just their ﬁ  rst opportunity.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org Women’s golf looks to build oﬀ   successful Fall season
Michael Wade / Courtesy to the Alligator
Emily Glaser (left) and Karolina Vlckova at the 2016 SEC Championship.
“... we just rub the slate clean 
and start over again in the 
spring.”
Emily Glaser
Florida women’s golf coach3   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2016
While both Florida and Georgia boast several capable 
running backs, the stables of players haven’t helped either team to elite rushing status. 
OVERALL RUSHING YARDS PER GAME:
UF: 181.83 yards. 
 Ninth in SEC, 57th nationally, fourth in the state of Florida.
UGA:  195.57 yards.
Eighth in SEC, 45th nationally, third in the state of Georgia.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Running back Mark Thompson (24) is tackled by a defender during Florida’s 40-14 homecoming win over Missouri on Oct. 15 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
STABLES OF 
MEDIOCRITYTHE  INDIVIDUAL BACKS: 
UF: 
Jordan Scarlett: 375 yards, 5 TD
Lamical Perine: 300 yards, 1 TDMark Thompson: 262 yards, 2 TDJordan Cronkrite: 112 yards, 1 TD
UGA:
Nick Chubb: 586 yards, 5 TDSony Michel: 358 yards, 1 TDBrian Herrien: 341 yards, 3 TDINSIDE
Florida has a history of fielding elite defensive lineman. 
Sophomore CeCe Jefferson wants to be next. 
ONLINE
For live updates and analysis from Florida’s game against Georgia on Saturday, follow us on Twitter at @alligatorsports and visit alligator.org/sports.
NEXT IN LINEKICK OFF
Editor Ian Cohen  Photos for Cover Illustration Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, October 28, 2016
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Leo Jefferson still remembers the first 
time he put his son on a football field. 
Surrounded by kids five years older and 
several pounds heavier, a 7-year-old CeCe 
Jefferson lined up against his opponents in a Macclenny pee-wee league game just 40 minutes north of Gainesville. He played run-
ning back and linebacker.
No pads. 
No holding back. It didn’t take long for CeCe to turn heads, 
even at such a young age.
“He wasn’t messing around, I promise 
you,” Leo said emphatically. 
“He was out there hitting them.”Now, the 6-foot-1, 261-pound defensive 
lineman is still punishing quarterbacks and offensive lineman, albeit on a bigger stage in The Swamp. 
CeCe’s 3.5 sacks and 8.5 tackles-for-loss 
last year helped him earn Southeastern Con-
ference All-Freshman team honors, and he’s 
shown flashes of more to come this season. 
The sophomore is equipped with all the 
tools and intangibles to become the next player in an impressive line of standout de-fensive linemen drafted from Florida — a lineage that includes Dante Fowler, Domi-
nique Easley, Sharrif Floyd and Jonathan 
Bullard, all early NFL Draft picks. 
But for now, CeCe isn’t feeling the pres-
sure. He’s focused on making his mark in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium and helping Florida 
reach a second straight SEC Championship 
Game. 
That’s a testament to his unselfish de-
meanor.
After UF’s 40-14 win over Missouri, CeCe 
raved about his teammates — players like Jalen Tabor and Quincy Wilson. 
It was clear the humble defensive line-
man wasn’t interested in talking about him-
self. 
“I was just doing my job,” he said.
 “Nothing special.”
•   •   •
Two prime examples of CeCe’s quirky 
personality came during his time at Baker County High School. 
Alabama head coach Nick Saban was set 
to visit the high school during CeCe’s senior year. 
Baker County’s coach at the time, Tom 
MacPherson, was a Crimson Tide fan. He was understandably excited but could see CeCe didn’t match his enthusiasm. 
“CeCe, you’re not excited?” Leo remem-
bers MacPherson asking his son. 
“Coach, he puts on his pants the same 
way I do,” CeCe told him. 
A five-star prospect, CeCe wasn’t fazed 
by the recruiting storm that followed him ev-
erywhere he went. While some may have let 
it inflate their egos, CeCe stayed grounded.
CeCe’s initial high school coach and for 
most of his prep days, Ryan Sulkowski, re-called one game during CeCe’s junior year 
against Georgia’s Camden County. CeCe 
sacked the opposing quarterback late in the game and celebrated. 
His coaches took issue with it. Baker 
County was losing by a large margin at the time. 
That Sunday following the loss, Sulkows-
ki told CeCe he looked foolish and embar-rassed himself. 
Ashamed, CeCe took the point to heart.“He looked at us, and this is how you 
know you have a mature kid,” Sulkowski said. 
“Coach, you’re right,” Jefferson told him. 
“That will never happen again.”
Sulkowski said that was just one specific 
example of CeCe’s character, which was 
molded by his family. 
Born Carl Deon Jefferson, the nickname 
“CeCe” stuck when he was young after his 
mother, Annette Moore, called him by the name. 
She didn’t like his real name, one that 
Leo gave him in honor of his father, also Carl. 
He’s the youngest of four children — two 
sisters and one brother. 
Leo described his son as a “home boy” 
that hung around his parents often growing up. 
Leo, who owns a carwash and detailing 
business, took CeCe to all his practices and games growing up, and goes to every UF football game. 
Leo even introduced CeCe to basketball, 
which he picked up with ease. He played through high school and was offered a scholarship by Virginia Tech. “His first year he broke a shot-blocking 
record that was sitting around for about 25 years,” Leo said.
The father-son bond Leo and CeCe shared 
played a major part in shaping CeCe’s char-
acter, especially his immense amount of 
smiling.
“He gets that from me,” Leo said. “If you 
were to interview people about me, that’d be the first thing they’d tell you.”
CeCe’s family also acted as a support 
system when CeCe’s son, Luke, was born in August 2015.
With CeCe busy with football and school, 
everyone has pitched in to help take care of him. 
Sometimes Luke is with his mother in 
Macclenny, and sometimes Leo and Annette watch him.
“We’re all in,” Leo said. But CeCe knows it will only last so long. Eventually, his goal is to support his fam-
ily by playing professionally. 
But CeCe doesn’t see that as pressure on 
him.
“I just think about my son, and that 
makes me get up and go out,” he said. 
“Because that’s something I have to do.”
•   •   •
Off the field, CeCe is a calm, fun-loving 
kid. 
But on the field, he becomes a tornado 
that imposes its will on players in his path. 
“He’ll knock you down then help you 
up,” Leo said.
Even back in his ninth-grade days, the storm was in motion.
CeCe was tasked with lining up against 
The Bolles School’s John Theus, a tackle who starred at Georgia before the San Fran-cisco 49ers drafted him in the fifth round of 
the 2016 NFL Draft.
After the game, Theus offered high praise 
for a high school freshman.
“Mr. Jefferson, that’s the strongest per-
son I ever went up against,” Leo remembers 
Theus saying. 
Just a year later, CeCe dueled with Co-
lumbia High’s Laremy Tunsil, a first-round tackle out of Ole Miss taken by Miami in the 
same draft as Theus.
CeCe didn’t back down.
“They went 50-50,” Sulkowski said. “He 
got the best of Laremy more than a few 
times.”
Matchups against Theus and Tunsil were 
only a foreshadowing of what was to come 
in the SEC at Florida. 
Despite CeCe still being an underclass-
man, his coaches and teammates continu-ally praise his play. 
“The guy, you wish you had more of 
those. I wish we had more Carls because 
Carl enjoys it,” coach Jim McElwain said. 
“We’ve got a lot of guys who can take a 
lesson or two from Carl.”
Even though running back Mark Thomp-
son doesn’t share the field with CeCe, he can feel his presence.
“When he’s in the game,” Thompson 
said, “you know he’s in the game.”
But CeCe’s effect might be felt most out-
side of The Swamp, and outside of football. 
It’s hard not to catch his contagious smile. Most can’t resist. 
McElwain is just another victim.“You talk about a guy who not only loves 
this university and his teammates but loves the game,” McElwain said. 
“I look forward to seeing him every day. 
Makes me smile.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgSTAYING GROUNDED
CeCe Jefferson has all the tools to be great, and he’s remaining humble along the way
INJURY
REPORT
OUT
WR Dre Massey (knee)
LB Jeremiah Moon (thumb)OL Antonio Riles (ACL)
DE Bryan Cox Jr. (hand)TE DeAndre Goolsby (finger)LB Jarrad Davis (ankle)DL Joey Ivie (thumb)QUESTIONABLE
DL Jordan Sherit (knee)OL Tyler Jordan (eye)PROBABLE
FLORIDA defense vs. GEORGIA offense
Brandon 
KublanowCJacob EasonQBNick ChubbRB
Keivonnis 
Davis or Bryan 
Cox Jr.DE
Jalen 
T aborCB
Quincy
WilsonCB
Khairi ClarkNT
Caleb
BrantleyDT
Jarrad
Davis or 
David 
ReeseMIKE
Alex
AnzaloneWILL
Nick Washington 
or Marcell HarrisS
Marcus 
MayeSIsaiah WynnLG
Tyler CatalinaLT
T erry GodwinWR
Lamont 
GaillardRG
Greg PykeRT
Jayson StanleyWRFLORIDA offense vs. GEORGIA defense
Cameron 
DillardC
Luke Del RioQB
Jordan Cronkrite or Lamical 
PerineRBDavid
SharpeLTMartez 
IveyLG
Tyler Jordan or 
Fred JohnsonRG
Jawaan T aylorRT
DeAndre
Goolsby or 
C’yontai LewisTENatrez 
PatrickMIKE
John AtkinsNT
Trenton 
ThompsonDT
Malkom 
ParrishCBReggie 
CarterWILL
Davin 
BellamyJACKDominick 
SandersS
Aaron DavisS
Jordan Scarlett or 
Mark ThompsonRBAntonio 
CallawayWR
Tyrie ClevelandWRDaQuan Hawkins-
MuckleDE
Deandre BakerCB
CeCe Jefferson 
or Jordan
SheritDEChristian 
PayneFB
Jeb BlazevichTE
Maurice SmithNICK
Duke 
DawsonNICKEmily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
CeCe Jefferson signs autographs for fans after Florida’s 40-14 homecoming win over Missouri on Oct. 15 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. Jefferson had 3.5 sacks last season and earned a spot on the Southeastern Conference coaches All-Freshman team. “I just think about my son, and that makes me get up and go out, ” Jefferson said. 
“You talk about a guy who 
not only loves this university 
and his teammates but loves 
the game. I look forward to 
seeing him every day. Makes 
me smile.”
Jim McElwain
Florida football coach