We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 62 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
UF football faces LSU on Saturday
Jalen T abor and the Gators defense will look to 
stop the Tigers’ rushing attack,  pg. 14
A guide to a Gainesville Thanksgiving
Read our suggestions about how to spend your break, pg. 8
UF student uses Norman Tunnel for art
She made a lyric video using her painting, pg. 9Surviving Thanksgiving dinner
Our guide to drinking responsibly and bondingwith your family, pg. 10
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A handwritten bomb threat 
found on campus Wednesday sparked a nearly ﬁ  ve-hour evacu-ation of UF’s New Engineering Building — though no evidence of explosives was found.
The note, found inside the 
women’s bathroom on the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor of the building, prompted an immediate response from Univer-sity Police, who swept the build-
ing with police dogs at about 11 
a.m., UPD Capt. Jeff Holcomb said.
After no bomb was found, 
UPD reopened the building at 
about 3 p.m., while UF canceled 
all classes at the building for the remainder of the day.
A perimeter set up to block 
trafﬁ  c on Center Drive was taken 
down at about 2 p.m., allowing 
buses and cars to pass.
Adjacent buildings, includ-ing Larsen Hall and Benton Hall, were not evacuated.
Holcomb said ofﬁ  cers would 
collect any evidence found to identify the person who wrote the note. The last time there was a bomb threat on campus was at 
least a year ago, he said.
“It’s very rare,” Holcomb said. 
For Marcy Lee, a program as-
sistant who works in the build-ing, news of the threat worried her. In her 25 years at UF, she 
said she has never experienced 
such a threat.
“I just know that they have to 
take these things seriously,” the 
47-year-old said. “Hopefully it’s 
just a hoax.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org Classes in New Engineering Building canceled after  bomb threat
Grace King / Alligator Staff
COLORFUL CALM
Marina Yue, a 19-year-old UF statistics freshman, colors at the UF Bookstore’s Keep Calm and Color 
event. The event offered an opportunity to relax and win prizes such as coloring books and gift cards.
IT WILL CLOSE DEC. 8 AND 
REOPEN JAN. 4.
By Max Chesnes 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
The Student Health Care Center at UF 
Health Shands Hospital is closing next month for renovations. 
The satellite clinic, a smaller version of 
the primary care services offered on campus, will be undergoing renovations to match the modernizations of Shands Hospital, said Catherine Seemann, the communications co-ordinator for the center. The renovations will cost about $70,000.
The center will have new cabinets, ﬂ  oors, 
updated lighting and painted walls to create a consistent look in the ofﬁ  ce, she said. The facility’s structure will remain the same.
“At some point, it becomes necessary to 
make these aesthetic changes to provide bet-ter public perception for the quality of care that we’re providing,” she said. “We hope that this will make students feel more wel-come and that the care that they’re getting is top quality.” 
The health care center at the inﬁ  rmary on 
campus will still be open for students. Staff members who currently work at the Shands location will work at the inﬁ  rmary while the renovations happen, Seemann said.
“We’ve planned to do this for a long time,” she said.
Dmitriy Nikitin, a UF pre-health biology 
sophomore, said he thinks renovating to up-date the look of the center isn’t necessary, but he understands it’s important for a medi-cal facility.
“I suppose that it could provide comfort 
for those in the health care clinic, making them feel more at ease,” the 19-year-old said. “It shows that they’re putting money into the system and that they care.” 
 Student Health Care Center at Shands Hospital to close for renovationsBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
When putting ink to skin or run-
ning a business, Wayne Lessard has 
historically gone against the grain.
Nearly two decades ago, when 
tattoos were still taboo and most 
tattoo shops were “scary,” Lessard 
took a chance when he opened up Bodytech Tattooing and Piercing, which has since become a mainstay on West University Avenue.
Today, the shop turns 18 years 
old, making it the longest continu-ously run tattoo shop in Gainesville.
If it were a person, Bodytech 
could get its ﬁ  rst tattoo on its own.
“This shop was a lot different 18 
years ago,” Lessard said. “It’s like raising a child.”
As a part of its Barely Legal Par-
ty, the 806 W. University Ave. shop 
is offering discounted jewelry and is 
rafﬂ  ing off a $150 gift certiﬁ  cate.
On Wednesday, 22-year-old Jus-
tin Peters sat in a back room at the shop as a beach scene slowly grew on his left thigh.
Although the Santa Fe College 
ﬁ  reﬁ  ghting student usually holds his friends’ hands as they receive tattoos at the shop, he went under its needle for the ﬁ  rst time Wednes-
day.
He decided to try the shop be-
cause Lessard’s apprentice, Maria 
Arjona, was offering free tattoos to practice. 
“I always feel welcomed here,” 
he said.
Lawrence Mead, a tattoo artist 
at Bodytech for the past eight years, 
said one of the most pronounced 
differences between business in the late ’90s and in 2016 is the clientele. 
He said tattoo recipients were 
once primarily 30-year-old men, but now, as tattoos have transitioned into mainstream culture, the shop sees students and residents of var-ied ages, gender identities and eth-
nicities.
The tattoo designs they ask for 
have changed, too, from “creepy 
and weird” to more artsy, he said.
The downside, Lessard said, 
is that tattoo designs used to be more creative. When the shop ﬁ  rst opened, many customers — those not interested in tribal bands or Bodytech tattoo shop 
celebrates 18 years of ink  No bomb was found
SEE TATTOO,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  79° LOW  48°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Underground: Musicians 
Showcase / RUB Entertainment
Join the Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment today to experi-ence an array of performances by some of Gainesville’s best up-
and-coming artists. With musical 
acts ranging from electronic to a 
cappella, the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom will transform into a 
one-stop venue for promising 
local artists of all genres. Doors open at 7 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom.
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood Drive hosted by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held now until Friday. All blood donors will earn points for their chapter and spirit points toward Dance Marathon 2017. Bloodmobiles will be located at the Gainesville Donor Center, Newberry Road Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lgbialeck@lifesouth.org or call 352-359-0988.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight VigilThe Fourth Annual Survivors of Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be 
held Saturday at the Survivors of 
Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin 
Nature Park, located at 4810 NW 
Eighth Ave. Activities will start at 4 p.m. with a ceremony begin-
ning at 5:45 p.m. This event is 
free and open to the community. 
The vigil will be sponsored by the 
Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support 
Group. For more information, 
please contact Donna Eckel at 
raggedyds@aol.com.
‘Trashformations’ at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History
See how Alachua County middle-
school, high-school and college students transform waste into works of art Friday from 6 p.m. to 
8 p.m. The museum will display 
winning entries from the 18th 
annual Trashformations through Nov. 28. This event is made possi-ble in part by the Alachua County Office of Waste Alternatives and the Alachua County Board of County Commissioners.
Entries for science photo contest 
due Dec. 20The Elegance of Science art com-petition is now accepting entries and is open to UF students, fac-ulty and staff. Submit your 2-D research images or photos that 
incorporate scientific tools or 
concepts for a chance to win 
cash prizes. The contest is orga-
nized by the Florida Museum of Natural History and the Marston 
Science Library. Submissions are 
due Sunday. For contest rules or 
to view past winners, visit flmnh.
ufl.edu/eos or call 352-273-2013.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 62
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
$12 in advance / $15 at the door
 352.375.4477 / thehipp.org
Chuck martin & 
the threetles
live at the hipp!
one night only!
GAINESVILLE’S BEST-LOVED BEATLES TRIBUTE BAND
PERFORMS A BENEFIT CONCERT FOR THE HIPPODROME!
saturdaynov 19 at 8pm 
IT WAS THE SECOND-ANNUAL 
GRATEFUL GATOR DAY.
By Elena Castello
Alligator Contributing Writer 
On Wednesday, Jake Hughes, 20, wrote a 
thank-you letter and dropped it in a mailbox on 
the Plaza of the Americas.  
His letter expressed gratitude to donors of UF 
for making the university great, he said as he 
participated in an annual event to thank them.
“It’s a really neat way to get people to write 
these letters and say thank you,” the UF chemi-
cal engineering junior said.
The UF Alumni Association helped host the 
second-annual Grateful Gator Day. On-campus organizations and more than 100 student volun-teers invited students to write letters to the thou-sands of individual donors that help ﬁ  nancially support UF each year.
More than 2,000 students attended, said Stel-
la Heekin, who helped organize the event.
“Our goal is to not only show donors that stu-
dents care, but that donor support really does make a difference in students’ experiences at UF,” the 21-year-old UF public relations senior 
said.
More than 72,400 alumni, parents and friends 
made gifts to UF last year, said Suzanne Wood-
ward, the director of the Ofﬁ  ce of Donor Rela-tions. Gifts less than $250 each totaled $3.4 mil-lion, and all donations combined totaled $402.6 million, she said.
Handwritten letters from the event will be 
mailed to those who have contributed any 
amount of money for at least 10 years, she said. 
“We want to let them know how much stu-
dents appreciate them,” Woodward said.  UF students write letters of  
thanks to university donors
Elena Castello / Alligator
Jake Hughes, a UF chemical engineering junior, writes a letter at Grateful Gator 
Day. “It’s a cool idea, ” he said. Hughes’ letter, addressed to Mr. and Mrs. Williams, was one of more than 2,000 that will be sent to donors.
4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
Bible verses — brought in original designs for him to 
tattoo. Now, more and more customers simply pull out their phones and show Lessard internet-inspired artwork they want him to mimic.
Instead of trying to copy and paste the designs, he 
said he makes a point of sitting down with his custom-ers to create original and personal work.
A big part of tattooing is ﬁ  guring out why people 
choose the different designs that they do — being a tattoo artist is like being a psychologist, he said.
Mead said his customers often feel inclined to share 
their personal thoughts with him because of the sense of vulnerability that comes with getting tattooed.
During his time at Bodytech, customers have told 
him about their extramarital affairs, arrests and even murders.
“You wouldn’t tell your hairdresser these things,” 
he said.
For Lessard, keeping his shop around amid recent 
changes to West University Avenue is a matter of giv-
ing people a permanent place to express themselves.
“I don’t plan on going anywhere,” he said.TATTOO,  from pg. 1‘It’s like raising a child.’
THE BUILDING, WHICH WILL 
BE COMPLETE IN DECEMBER, 
COST $25 MILLION.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
With the opening of the Otis P. Hawkins 
Center, connected to Farrior Hall, student 
athletes have multiple resources con-densed in one building.
Nine athletic advisers are housed in the 
center, along with tutors, study rooms and 
a nutrition center, said Keith Carodine, the 
senior associate athletics director. Final 
renovations will be ﬁ  nished in December, including more rooms for studying, tutor-ing and Preview as well as ofﬁ  ces for four 
sports psychologists and mental-health 
professionals. 
It cost $25 million to build the Hawkins Center, including the ongoing renovations. 
Carodine said the center needed to be 
built because the old space in Farrior Hall 
was overcrowded after UF added three 
sports. 
“We were already out of space by year 
2000,” he said, adding that the student population has also increased. 
Carodine said the renovations will help 
student athletes and others by creating 
more space for other advisers and incom-
ing students during Preview. 
“It beneﬁ  ts not just student athletes, but 
the entire university,” he said.  
Advisers for the College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences can be found in the Academ-ic Advising Center in Farrior Hall, which 
is connected to the Hawkins Center. The 
December renovations will add new ofﬁ  ce 
space for more of the college’s advisers, he 
said.
In Hawkins, nine advisers see 525 ath-letes, Carodine wrote in an email. Students 
can visit advisers as often as they want, he added. They work with the athletes’ aca-
demic advisers for their majors. 
Dalton Guthrie, a UF political science 
junior who plays shortstop on the UF base-
ball team, said the longest he’s waited to see an adviser was 10 minutes since the 
center opened. The only adviser he meets 
with is his athletic adviser, he said. 
“Before the Hawkins Center was open, 
we probably did have to wait longer,” the 
20-year-old said. 
Guthrie said he visits about twice a 
week to hang out with other athletes, see 
a tutor, study or go to the nutrition center. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely a big improvement,” he 
said. “It’s just more convenient; every-thing’s there.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org  Hawkins Center gives more support for athletes   
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Janine Wolf 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF organization is collecting winter 
clothes and other items through the end of 
the month to help Syrian refugees in Florida. 
Students Organize for Syria at UF, a non-
political, nonproﬁ  t organization, is asking 
students and Gainesville residents to donate 
gently used clothing, shoes and books until Nov. 30. Items can be dropped off in the cor-ridor at Keene-Flint Hall, Room 234.
Rana Al-Nahhas, the president and found-
er of SOS at UF, said the group decided to have its ﬁ  rst winter donation drive because it wanted to let refugees know they are valued and welcome.
As of July 31, there were 542 Syrian refu-
gees in Florida, according to NBC. Items col-lected will be distributed across the state with the help of outside organizations such as Is-lamic Relief USA, but no deﬁ  nite partnerships 
have been made yet, the 21-year-old said.
“I don’t think students understand the 
seriousness of it,” the UF psychology senior 
said. “These are just innocent civilians.”
She said the organization has received 
a lot of support since its launch in January 2015.
“It’s actually been really heartwarming,” 
Al-Nahhas said.
Amanda Makhoul, a UF political science 
and international studies alumna, said she thinks it’s important to donate because she has friends who have family living in Syria. 
“It shows them we love them and we care 
for them,” the 22-year-old said. “Chances are they didn’t make it here with a lot of things.”  UF students collecting 
items for Syrian refugeesBy Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
In 26.2 hours, UF students raised 
$422,557.77, beating their expected goal by 
more than $160,000. 
On Wednesday, students completed the 
ﬁ  rst fundraising push for the 2017 Dance 
Marathon at UF for families and children at 
UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital. At 8 a.m. Tuesday, they began handing out ﬂ  iers. They didn’t stop until 10:12 a.m. Wednesday as part of the fundraiser, Transform Tuesday. 
The goal was to raise $262,000 in 26.2 hours.
Claire Daniel, the public relations overall 
director for the organization, said the amount 
raised is proof students can accomplish any-thing when they work together. 
“It was not expected, but it means so 
much to those involved in Dance Marathon,” the 21-year-old UF public relations senior said.
Every cent goes to the Children’s Miracle 
Network, and the money raised is a reﬂ  ection of the work students do for the kids, she said.
“We think of them; it goes to them,” she 
said. 
Grace Caswell, 22, raised more than 
$4,000 during the one-day fundraiser. She hopes to raise $12,000 more before the Spring event.
“I’m hoping to raise $20,000 this year,” 
the Dance Marathon internal overall direc-
tor said, adding that if she does, she’ll have 
raised $50,000 throughout her time at UF. 
“It’s much more than just fundraising,” 
the UF health education and behavior senior 
said. “It’s impacting all the miracle families 
that I’ve gotten to know in the past four 
years.”Dance Marathon fundraisers raise 
more than $400,000 in one dayThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORAn uncomfortable 
Trump comparison
On Oct. 10, we ran an editorial titled “Is Trump a modern-
day Hitler?” We concluded at the end of the piece that the answer was “not really” but that Trump and his cro-nies are “blurring that line more and more every day.”
On Jan. 20, 1942, a conference was held in a small 
Berlin suburb. This conference, historically recognized as the Wannsee Conference, was held in order to make sure all of the government ofﬁ  cials and the agencies they represented were on the same page in terms of implementing the “ﬁ  nal solution to the Jewish question,” now known as the Holocaust. 
Here, they drew up plans to exterminate European Jewry un-
der the guise of “resettlement.” They outlined how they would force Jews to register, remove them from their homes and deport them to concentration and extermination camps, ultimately mur-
dering them and disposing of their bodies. They also went over 
propaganda approaches, the most successful one being that the Jews were a physical and existential threat to Germany.
It should be noted that at no point was Adolf Hitler present 
during this conference. In fact, Hitler really had marginal over-sight of the Holocaust in general. He more or less asked the afore-mentioned Jewish question, and his underlings took care of the details and subsequent dirty work. Once again, Hitler was not at the conference that ultimately decided the tragic fate of 6 million 
Jews and 5 million others, including Jehovah’s Witnesses, Roma 
Gypsies, homosexuals, disabled people and black Europeans.
On Tuesday, multiple sources, including Reuters, Vox and 
The Hill, reported that Trump’s policy advisers held a confer-ence of their own. Here, they discussed plans to create a data-base to register immigrants from Muslim countries. According to The Independent, upon registration, Muslims might also be given a form of identiﬁ  cation that notes their religion, similar to how Nazi Germany forced its Jewish citizens to identify themselves 
with a yellow Star of David sewn onto their clothes. The policy 
advisers claim their motivation for doing so is in no way done to oppress immigrants but to ensure national security.
This narrative is all too familiar. Under the guise of national 
security, those surrounding a “charismatic” leader are attempt-ing to interpret his vague demands. It also doesn’t help that self-proclaimed neo-Nazis are incredibly enthusiastic about Trump. Who would’ve thought that Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan would ever be united under a single ﬁ  gure?
We here at the Alligator can’t help but notice that the entire 
tone of this man’s presidency has started off on a terrifying foot. We also can’t ignore the inherent hypocrisy: When Americans propose a registry of guns, it’s unconstitutional and dangerous, but when Americans propose we make a registry of human f------beings, that’s totally ﬁ  ne.
It is impossible not to connect these dots. At no point were 
the Jews a physical or existential threat to Germany, and there is no way Muslims are threats to Americans. Moreover, Hitler 
called for the jailing of his political opponents, whose only crime 
was standing against him. He also called for the destruction of a free press, thinking they would lead to his downfall. Like Hitler, Trump calls for the jailing of his political opponents, despite there being no evidence to warrant any arrests, and he has already threatened to revoke White House press credentials from some of America’s most respected news sources. We are apprehensive to say that this will end in Nazism, but we are more than conﬁ  dent in saying that this is how Nazism begins.
“The people can always be brought to the bidding of the lead-
ers. That is easy. All you have to do is tell them they are being attacked and denounce the paciﬁ  sts for lack of patriotism and ex-posing the country to greater danger.” -Reichsmarschall Herman Goering at the Nuremberg trials
Guest Column
Hope, love and hallelujah from President Fuchs
The night before my birthday, Nov. 3, I 
received the gift I was hoping for but didn’t expect: The Chicago Cubs won 
the World Series.
I attended Trinity Evangelical Divin-
ity School and lived in Illinois for 20 years, 
so I couldn’t help but join with the entire na-
tion — excluding Ohio — in celebrating with 
the Cubs.
On Tuesday of this week, I received anoth-
er gift — one of the very best I ever remember receiv-ing. UF engineering professor Wolfgang Sigmund and 
members of the LGBTQ+ Advisory Committee came to 
give me a beautiful plaque with a photograph of Cen-tury Tower lit in rainbow colors.
The words on the plaque start with “Dear President 
Fuchs, Thank you,” and the plaque describes how our campus came together to mourn the loss of 49 lives in the Pulse nightclub shooting and how we visibly dem-onstrated our unity, support and love for all. The in-scription on the plaque ends in bold font with “We are grateful for your humanity, your kindness, and your 
leadership.”
Given the divisiveness, hate and fear seen across our 
nation, my prayer is that I and every UF student, faculty 
and staff member will always be known for humanity, kindness and leadership.   
I have three aspirations for all Gators.First, that we denounce all forms of hate. I hope even 
shy and introverted individuals like me will speak up and replace hate with active love. Many members of 
our wonderfully diverse UF community are afraid. It 
is my hope that each of us, in our words and actions, demonstrates our support for those who feel threatened and defends the rights of all. At a minimum, I urge our community to report messages and incidents of concern 
to our U Matter, We Care program.Second, that we commit to always listen-
ing to each other, even when the message is 
hard to hear. This is a community of learners 
and educators. We will not beneﬁ  t from our 
rich diversity if we do not understand one an-other.
Third, I ask that each of us work to im-
prove the lives of all people. We can do this individually in how we live our lives and as a university overall, through our scholarship, 
teaching and engagement with society.
While traveling the past two weeks, I’ve been play-
ing the music of Leon Russell and Leonard Cohen. Both were proliﬁ  c songwriters and musicians, and both died this month. Kate McKinnon sang Cohen’s “Hallelujah” for the cold open of “Saturday Night Live” this past 
week.
The closing refrain is: “I’ll stand before the Lord of 
Song/With nothing on my tongue but hallelujah.”
Cohen’s “Hallelujah” reﬂ  ects my mood of the past 
year. I’m mournful for the lack of love I’ve observed, 
but I’m also truly hopeful that the time is coming when love will win and we will be able to say hallelujah.
I ask that you join me in making our university, state 
and nation stronger and better for all.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His column ap-
pears monthly.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“I hope even shy and 
introverted individuals like 
me will speak up and replace 
hate with active love.”Instead of doing the predictable thing and 
giving my hot take on the election re-sults, which will undoubtedly echo that of people in my similar demographic, I’m going to talk about memes.
Love ’em, hate ’em, slightly confused 
by ’em… There’s no denying that they are plastered across every medium of the digital world (and sometimes seep into the real world). They’ve evolved greatly since cheeseburger cat and the troll face of the early 2000s. Now, we’ve had the nationwide mourning of a gorilla for nearly six months, images of a popular childhood show coupled with lewd text and most recently, photos of Vice President Joe Biden presented with dialogue about preparing for President-elect Donald Trump.
No one can really place what the ﬁ  rst 
meme was, but memes have deﬁ  nitely grown and prospered since their inception. In the beginning, memes were very local-ized to certain social media outlets like Red-dit, Tumblr and 4chan. The memes would blow up on each one, and if a meme was powerful enough, it would trickle down to more mainstream social networks like Facebook and Twitter. There was a time period when I’d see a meme on Tumblr and then again on Facebook a few months later, and I had that small — very sad — satisfaction of telling my sister I had already seen it.
But now memes are more 
mainstream. Corporations have caught on; news outlets are aware of them. What used to be little in-side jokes among the more “underground” — and I use that term very loosely because they have millions of users — social me-dia outlets has perforated mainstream me-dia. Whether you’re someone who actively searches out new memes or someone who gets annoyed every time your roommate tags you in the latest one, it’s quite obvious that they are everywhere. Companies use memes to market to millennials. A good majority of election information I saw was in meme form; there are respectable news outlets that publish compilations of memes.
There is no escaping the power of the meme.
It’s a hard concept to explain to 
older people — sure, they can see the humor in some of the more ob-vious memes, but phenomena like “dat boi,” the unicycling digital frog whose origins are still dubi-ous, and Harambe, who surged in popularity months after his death, are difﬁ  cult to explain to those who just don’t get it. What’s so attractive about memes? Why do 
they hold our attention for so long? Why is it that when one dies, another rises, more beautiful and glorious, to take its place?
I don’t know the answer, but I can theo-
rize. People love inside jokes, and memes are basically inside jokes the whole world knows. They started out as cool, under-ground things but surged in popularity in the last year or so. In a way, memes are coping mechanisms. A lot of really popular memes have some level of desperation, some level of sadness and existential dread covered up by layers and layers of humor and ab-surdism. The image of the dog saying “This is ﬁ  ne,” clutching onto a cup as the world around him goes in ﬂ  ames, is a popular one among millennials, who understand that no, this is not ﬁ  ne, but we sure as heck aren’t going to openly deal with that. 
Most recently, we have the Joe Biden 
memes, surging out of the results of the elec-tion. As unlikely as it is and as absurd as it looks, the idea of Joe Biden building “Home Alone”-type booby traps to keep Donald Trump out of the White House speaks to us.
We want to be in on the joke. We rec-
ognize how ridiculous memes are, but then again, isn’t life pretty ridiculous? We refuse to accept the absurdity of our own lives — or maybe we do, and we just push it away. So we create jokes for the whole world to get in on, and we get in on the jokes that oth-ers have created. Now especially, with the results of an election no one really expected, with half the country in dissent, now is when we turn to the absurd in order to garner some sort of understanding and cope with it all.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her columns appear on Thursdays.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
It's not an election hot take: Let's talk about memes and their signiﬁ  cance Column
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgIt began even before either candidate had hit the magic threshold of 270 projected electoral votes.
As election night wore on and it be-
came clear that Donald Trump, not Hill-
ary Clinton, would become the 45th president of the U.S., there was remarkable confusion and anger over the impending results. Politi-cal pundits confusedly clamored on televi-sion. People didn’t hesitate to express their shock on social media. Most of them were asking themselves the same questions: How did this happen, and why didn’t anyone see it coming?
The answers to both are convoluted and 
multifaceted. Scholars will be sifting through the wasteland of this election for years. Many books will surely be written. But as I’ve pon-dered these questions over the last week or so, I’ve considered some things I previously hadn’t.
We as the academic liberal elite certainly 
played a role in Clinton’s defeat, whether we’d like to admit it or not. We like to joke, myself included, that Trump supporters liv-ing in traditionally conservative states exist in a bubble, out of touch with the rest of America.
But in reality, we were the ones 
entrapped in a bubble: a bona ﬁ  de, self-sufﬁ  cient liberal echo chamber fueled by our tendency toward bias and afﬁ  rmation on social media that ignored nearly half the popu-lation.
The foundations were laid by 
a predominantly progressive mil-lennial demographic. The walls were fortiﬁ  ed by the unabashedly left-lean-ing mainstream media. We assumed that because everyone around us shared similar views, enough people around the country did the same. It made a Clinton victory appear inevitable.
The liberal elite also dramatically mis-
judged the undercurrent of political dissat-isfaction among a signiﬁ  cant chunk of the electorate. It’s no accident that there were two successful, nonestablishment candi-dates from both parties during the primaries: Trump on the right and Bernie Sanders on the left.
While the bulk of Sanders’ support 
came from millennials, he also found foot-ing among blue-collar workers in the Rust Belt states that have seen slow economic growth and stagnant wages over the last eight years.
This was evident earlier this 
year. For months leading up to the Michigan Democratic primary in March, polls showed Clinton held a substantial lead over Sanders. It was a state she was supposed to 
win in a landslide.
But the primary results proved the polls to 
be very, very wrong, just like they were in the general election. Sanders ended up defeating Clinton by roughly 17,000 votes. It ended as only a blip on her path to the nomination, but it spoke volumes about her unpopularity and the legitimacy of voters’ discontent.
Similarly, Clinton remained unable to gain 
traction in economically downtrodden Mid-western states against Trump. He won Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. It was the ﬁ  rst time Michigan and Pennsylva-nia voted Republican since 1988. Wisconsin hadn’t gone red since 1984. These states put Trump over the top and were all won by Barack Obama twice.
Are some of Trump’s supporters sexist, 
hateful and bigoted? Undoubtedly. But did all of those who ﬂ  ipped to Trump after voting for Obama four years ago suddenly become racists? I don’t think so. Ultimately, the Dem-ocratic establishment failed to acknowledge the dissatisfaction and calls for help from people who felt economically left behind. As a result, many people were willing to turn a blind eye and gamble on Trump instead of the safe, pro-establishment choice.
Clinton tried punching through the glass 
ceiling with ﬁ  sts stained by the blood of the victims in Benghazi. She was hampered by the baggage of an email scandal and nagging FBI investigation. Her dealings with the Clin-ton Foundation have been subject to scru-tiny. But for all her ﬂ  aws as a candidate — and there were many — none held her back more than her near quarter-century spent as a Washington insider.
In the end, it seems voters wanted change, 
no matter who it was or where it came from. That’s what they got.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Sifting through the fragmented aftermath of the election one week laterColumn
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Vintage Pop-Up Market returns to GNV
 It will run from Friday to Sunday, pg. 10THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
UF student uses Normal Tunnel for expression
She painted the tunnel for a  video, pg. 9By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
On Saturday, The Atlantic will host a book release 
party for “Gainesville Punk: A History of Bands & Music,” 
a book by Matt Walker, a Gainesville resident and com-
munications specialist with UF Human Resource Services. 
The show will feature reunion sets by local punk legends Strikeforce Diablo, I Hate Myself and Army of Ponch. This event will also serve as an LP release show for Deadaires, a 
band based out of St. Augustine, Florida, with strong ties to 
Gainesville through its members, who have played in bands like Against Me! and Palatka. 
Gainesville has bred several popular punk acts through-
out the last 20 years. Bands like Hot Water Music, Less 
Than Jake and Against Me! all got their start in this town 
on the Gainesville-based independent record label No Idea Records. 
With the popularity of these bands, as well as the grow-
ing hype surrounding Gainesville’s annual music festival, The Fest, there is a national, and even international, inter-est in the music scene of this small Florida town. The Fest celebrated its 15th anniversary in October.
“I’ve been interested in Gainesville’s punk scene for a 
long time,” Walker, 37, said. “Even before I moved here in 2006, I had been a fan of No Idea Records since the late ’90s.” 
Walker came to Gainesville 10 years ago to attend gradu-
ate school at UF. While living here, he started an online blog called Lead Us Down about the Gainesville music scene be-fore being approached by History Press, a publishing house based in the U.K., to write a book about Gainesville’s music scene. His book was released Nov. 7. 
“The Lead Us Down blog was actually my ﬁ  nal project 
for my master’s degree,” Walker said. “After I had been running the blog for a couple of years, the guys from His-tory Press came across my blog and asked me if I could write a whole book on the history of Gainesville punk.”
His book follows the history of several classic Gainesville 
bands. Notable mentions include Roach Motel and Spoke. In “Gainesville Punk,” Walker interviews members from a lot of big acts that got their start in Gainesville.
“I got to interview some people from Hot Water Music, 
Less Than Jake and Against Me!” Walker said. “But I also 
got to talk to a lot of bands who are smaller and currently 
living in Gainesville. The primary source material for the book was talking directly to musicians.”
Walker also uses the book to consider Gainesville’s 
most notable venues for live music. From Hardback Cafe and High Dive, formerly known as Common Grounds, to impromptu concerts in living rooms around town, there is a strong, tight-knit musical community that thrives in Gainesville, Walker said. 
“I saw Against Me! at a house show right after they re-
leased ‘New Wave,’” Walker said. “They were signed to a major label, but they played at this tiny house show in Gainesville. It was packed wall-to-wall. The windows were 
covered in condensation because it was so hot in there.”
Many Gainesville residents aren’t aware of the thriving 
punk culture that has been developing here for the last 30 
years. Those who are in-the-know, however, appreciate the nurturing music scene and rich history of the town. 
“We are pretty fortunate to have such a dynamic range 
of bands popping up all the time in such a small town,” Tom Rankine, the promoter for The Atlantic, said. “There is a tight community within the scene unlike a lot of places.”
The release show will start at about 6 p.m. with a $10 
cover charge at the door. However, if you get to The Atlan-tic between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., there will be no cover. 
Tickets can be purchased in advance for $8 on The At-
lantic’s website, and Walker’s book will be available for 
purchase at the release show, as well as at Arrow’s Aim 
Records, located at 10 N. Main St., and Hear Again Records, located at 201 SE Second Ave., before then. The Atlantic celebrates book on Gainesville’s punk past
MUSIC
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer 
With less than a week off from 
classes, it may be hard for some students, especially those from 
outside of Florida, to go home 
for Fall break. For those staying in town over Thanksgiving, here are some ideas to celebrate Tur-key Day!
“Planes, Trains and Au-
tomobiles”: The Hippodrome State Theatre will host an ’80s-themed movie night Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. The theater will screen 
the Thanksgiving classic “Planes, Trains and Automobiles,” which follows a man’s shenanigan-ﬁ  lled journey to meet his family in Chicago for Thanksgiving. The comedy, starring Steve Martin and John Candy, promises laughs and heartfelt moments. Attendees 
are encouraged to dress in their 
best ’80s attire, and drinks will be available. Tickets to the screening are $12.
Painting with a Twist: First 
Magnitude Brewing Company will host artist Jenna Horner as 
she brings the holiday spirit to 
Gainesville. Horner and Paint-ing with a Twist will offer a class Wednesday at 6 p.m. where guests will create nondenomina-
tional holiday trees. The event is 
open to those 18 years or older. Tickets must be purchased on-line by 2 p.m. Wednesday, and they are $35. Beer is included for guests 21 and over.
Thanksgiving buffet: Franc-
esca’s Trattoria restaurant will be open next Thursday for those who want to skip the hassle of cooking 
a Thanksgiving meal. The buf-
fet will open at 11 a.m. and run throughout the day until 5 p.m. For $32.95, attendees can treat 
themselves to a buffet of roasted 
turkey, glazed ham, three-cheese macaroni, sweet potato soufﬂ  e and dessert among other menu items. Those interested in din-
ing in are encouraged to RSVP by 
calling 352-378-7152. Record Store Day: If you like 
records and Black Friday shop-ping, Hear Again Records has the deal for you. Visit the store downtown Nov. 25 starting at 11 
a.m. as it celebrates Record Store 
Day. Hear Again Records will of-fer vinyls from such bands as The Beach Boys, James Bay, Disclo-
sure, The Kinks and Iron Maiden 
that were ordered exclusively for Friday’s event. 
Guests are encouraged to ar-
rive early as quantities are lim-ited and demand is high. A list of records for sale can be found on Hear Again Records’ Facebook page.Cane Boil and Fiddle Fest:  
Enjoy live string-band music next Saturday at the Morning-side Nature Center. The Cane Boil and Fiddle Fest is an annual 
event that celebrates the spirit of 
Thanksgiving through banjo and ﬁ  ddle tunes. Guests can enjoy music while participating in ac-
tivities such as making sugar cane 
syrup, eating hot biscuits and rid-ing horse-drawn wagons. 
A youth ﬁ  ddle contest will also 
take place for guests to enjoy. The festival will offer attendees a look into life in the country during the late 19th century. For more information and tickets, visit the 
event’s Facebook page or call 
352-334-3326.
A guide to celebrating Thanksgiving break in Gainesville
LOCALCourtesy to the Alligator
Matt Walker’s book “Gainesville Punk: A His-
tory of Bands & Music” was released on Nov. 7.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Contracts include lower inch 
rates and free online impressions. (352) 376-4482
advertising@alligator.orgADVERTISING
A contract with The Alligator is a perfect way to begin your advertising campaign — whether 
it’s Summer, Fall or Spring. Contracts include lower inch rates and free online impressions.IT ISN’T A SPRINT ,
IT’S A MARATHON
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer 
To some people, slapping paint 
on a dirty wall in a shadowy tun-
nel holds as much signiﬁ  cance as hanging a canvas in a pristine gal-lery, as long as someone sees it.
Emma Magee, a UF public rela-
tions junior, put her mark on the walls of Norman Tunnel: a place students know to be full of person-
al expression and, sometimes, gib-
berish. Magee, however, did more than just tag the walls. She made a lyric video set to the song “Errors” 
by K.I.D.  
The 20-year-old uploaded her 
video to her Facebook page Nov. 
7 and received almost 1,200 views in less than a day. Magee, a col-
lege marketing representative with 
Sony Music U for the Gainesville 
area, ﬁ  lmed the video herself. She does a lot of grassroots marketing to promote different events and art-
ists using ﬂ  iers, posters or murals.
Making the video was mostly 
about passion for the song, al-
though Magee said she thinks Gainesville would be a good audi-
ence for the band. 
She said she ﬁ  rst heard K.I.D. 
while at the annual meeting for 
Sony Music U in New York City, and the experience stuck with her after she left. 
“To see an artist that’s, like, so 
raw that they’re just going to get up there and tell you that they’re going to sing about being sad and that’s OK, I left the trip and could not stop thinking about that mo-ment and that song,” she said.
The song itself has contrasting 
elements, which drew her to it in the ﬁ  rst place. The upbeat melody blends with the melancholy lyrics.
“It’s a good sound,” she said. 
“It gives you a good taste in your 
mouth.”
Magee had to do something about this song that wouldn’t leave 
her alone. Because college is such a confusing and anxiety-riddled 
time, she said she thought the song 
could mean something to other 
students, too. She decided to paint 
meaningful lyrics from the song.
Magee didn’t only paint lyrics 
on the walls of Normal Tunnel: She also painted pictures of cascading 
pills down the walls and two giant 
crying eyes on the ground, show-cased by a stop-motion sequence in 
the video. 
“I remember being in the tunnel 
and slapping paint everywhere,” 
she said. “I was putting so much paint on the ground painting these 
eyeballs because they’re huge. This 
is so cool that this university and 
this area can let me do this. They allow me to come on here with an idea and turn it into art.”
Normal Tunnel is not an ofﬁ  -
cially sanctioned place for grafﬁ  ti like the 34th Street Wall, but the collective stone canvas is an unof-ﬁ  cial place for tagging on campus, 
said Richard Heipp, a professor of 
painting and public art in the UF 
School of Art and Art History.
“They have painted it out doz-
ens of times, and it just kind of 
keeps coming back,” Heipp said. 
“It’s a perfect camouﬂ  aged spot. 
It’s hard to enforce it. But you can actually get a ticket for writing on it.”
Because it changes daily, and 
it’s not sanctioned by the commu-nity or a group of experts, Heipp said that the tunnel is more about public expression than about art. 
Art, in his opinion, has to do 
with the context of where, how and why it’s placed, as well as the artist’s intention behind the piece. For these reasons, he wouldn’t consider grafﬁ  ti to be art. One of the tunnel’s appeals is that it keeps most of the tagging on campus to one location. One sanctioned street art ini-
tiative is 352walls in Gainesville, 
where artists have been commis-
sioned to create elaborate murals on the side of buildings downtown to increase tourism and solidify Gainesville’s position as a cultural destination. 
Public art on UF’s campus is 
important, Heipp said, because it shows the community the cultural signiﬁ  cance of art on a grander scale.
Putting public art on UF’s cam-
pus is a formal process. Florida’s Art in State Buildings program, es-tablished in 1979, mandates that a portion of state funds for a new building on campus is set aside to procure public art for that building. One of the more popular pieces of sanctioned public art on campus 
is John Henry’s “Alachua,” also 
known as the French Fries, near Marston Science Library. 
Heipp has his own pieces of 
sanctioned public art at different UF locations, according to the Arts in State Buildings Program’s web-site. Some of those pieces include a collection in Library West called “Circuit, Signs and Place,” which includes three sculptures and a painting. 
Heipp said the beauty behind 
pieces of public art is their inten-tional nature. They are meant to be seen and reach a completely differ-ent audience than art found in a gallery. 
“People are going about their 
business,” Heipp said, “whether they’re in the library, whether they’re going to class, and so they 
come upon the art in a very dif-
ferent way, and I think it ends up reaching a lot more people.”
If true art comes down to con-
text and the artist’s intentions, then Magee is on the right track. She recognizes the role art and mu-sic hold in her life, and she’s inter-ested in reaching out to anybody she can.
“It’s super important knowing 
you can have this creative canvas, that it’s not just for yourself,” she said. “It’s a place that everyone can walk through and see. May-be it can resonate with someone. Maybe it can help someone else, which is kind of my whole point behind this.”
UF student uses Norman Tunnel for artistic expression
ART
Janiece Sebris / Alligator
Emma Magee, a UF public relations junior, painted Norman Tunnel and recorded a video for the song “Errors” by K.I.D using the images that she created. The video has received lots of attention online. and got almost 1,200 views in less than a day after posting it on Nov. 7.
10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
By Daniela Arias
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville Vintage Pop Up Market will 
open this weekend for the second time this year. 
The market will sell vintage and handmade items, including jewelry, clothes, linens and antique hardware, in support of local artisans.
Judy Phillips, the owner of Soleil Vintage 
and the event’s coordinator, organized the ﬁ  rst pop-up market in June. 
“It was pretty busy last time,” Phillips said. She said she thought the market received a 
great deal of attention and that everyone had a lot of fun. Vintage lovers showed up to buy or admire the market’s ageless items, and people who happened to be downtown also came in 
to look. 
Unfortunately, the market had to be cut 
short due to bad summer weather, but with the 
positive reception of the ﬁ  rst market, Phillips and other vendors are hopeful for the future.
This weekend, the second market will take 
place at the Poole Building, located at 720 SE Second St. 
“This time it has been smoother,” Phillips 
said. 
She said she hopes that as the market be-
comes more stable and easier to organize, it will become a monthly event for Gainesville resi-dents to enjoy. 
Phillips said there will be something for ev-
eryone at the market, from people who want to 
buy distinctive decorative items to those who 
want to wear clothes that are different from everyone else’s. There is also a wide range of prices across the market.
Brianna Cryar, a UF senior and the owner of 
beauty-product online business Avani, will be one of the vendors present at the market. Cryar sells organic hair and skin products, which she makes on her own. This will be the ﬁ  rst time 
she has participated in this event, but she said 
she feels excited to participate based on her ex-periences at other markets. 
“I love it when they are interested in the pro-
cess behind it,” Cryar said. She gets to explain the processes she ﬁ  nds so relaxing as well as the ways in which she discovers different recipes.  
Cryar said the access to such a large body 
of students is a perk for vendors. She said she 
believes her generation is particularly interested 
in handmade and organic products and that a large group of young customers will help make this market a success.
The market will be open with free admission 
Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m and Sunday from 10:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Friday, there will be a sneak peak from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. for an entrance fee of $3.By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
For UF’s 2016 International Education 
Week, there are currently two winning exhi-bitions on display in Constance and Linton Grinter Gallery of International Art, located in the lobby of Grinter Hall. The Global 
Photo Competition Exhibit, displayed from 
Nov. 2 through Nov. 30, is sponsored by both the University International Center and the UF School of Art and Art History.  
The 2016 contest is the 13th annual in-
stallment of the Global Photo Competition, and its entries focus on “portraying the theme of ‘Global Culture,’” according to the UF International Center website. 
In this year’s contest, the winners of 
the international students, scholars and employees contest subset are Jiantao Shen in ﬁ  rst, Ling Fan, taking second place and Tianyuan Xiao taking third place. 
The winners of the study-abroad and 
service-learning students contest subset are Robert Sato taking ﬁ  rst place, Alan Alvarez de Sotomayor taking second place and An-
drea Paulina Cornejo taking third place.
Finally, the winners of the faculty, staff, 
and alumni competition subset are Eliza-
beth Wood in ﬁ  rst place, Tyler Standifer in second place and Ryan Jones in third place.
The “Good Things Come in Small Pack-ages” exhibit will also run in Constance and Linton Grinter Gallery of International Art until Nov. 30. The exhibit is a collabora-
tive exhibition between the graphic design 
and ceramics departments of the UF School of Art and Art History and the graphic de-sign and design sculpture departments of China’s Wuhan Textile University College of Art.
This exhibition celebrates the creative 
accomplishments of contributing artists and highlights the value of international coop-
eration and support. “Good Things Come 
in Small Packages” was organized through artist and UF School of Art and Art History professor Anna Calluori Holcombe, who holds a position as a visiting scholar with the Wuhan Textile University College of Art.
“(I am) very excited that we have been 
able to bridge this event and be involved 
with International Week,” Calluori Hol-
combe said. 
With exhibits running in both China and 
the U.S., “Good Things Come in Small Pack-ages” certainly ﬁ  ts well with the purpose of International Education Week. The pieces 
displayed in the exhibit are the works of 
graduate students and faculty, collaborating to create dynamic installations and, as Cal-luori Holcombe said, “show how artists can work together.”By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
It’s that time of year again: the time to 
give thanks for our family and friends. Of-
tentimes, however, Thanksgiving becomes much more than that — with a heaping pile of drama served alongside the turkey. When it starts getting a bit too much to handle, you may have to turn to an alcoholic beverage or two. Here’s a drinking game to make it all a little more fun:Take a sip…
• Every time your mom apologizes for an 
overcooked item of food
• When a minor spat breaks out over the 
canned-versus-fresh cranberries debate
• When your dad complains about how full 
he is but then eats two more slices of pie
• When someone yells at you about your 
posture or table manners Take a shot…
• When your grandma asks if you have a 
boyfriend or girlfriend
• When your aunt starts making detailed lists 
of everything she has to get on Black Friday
• Every time someone sneaks a piece of food 
to the dog 
• If there are already Christmas decorations 
up in your home 
• When a family member comments on your 
weight Finish your drink…
• When your uncle starts talking about 
Donald Trump
• When the ﬁ  rst family member falls asleep, 
probably at about 4 p.m.
• When there’s an argument over football
• When someone brings up a touchy 
subject at the table that leads to an 
extended awkward silence
Vintage market to returnUF shows international artBinge drinking game: Thanksgiving with family edition
LOCALTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
1/1 with W/D IN unit. 5-10 minutes to cam-
pus, on bus route. Corner unit with no one above you. Complex is gated at night and has a pool, gym, sauna, tanning bed, courts, and free printing. PETS ALLOWED! Cable and HBO included. $879/month. Contact Amanda 727-418-4337     11-18-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
Designated drivers are the greatestThis newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
ACROSS
1 Touch off
6 Electrical unit9 What wind
ensembles
usually tune to
14 Actress Anouk
whose last name
means “beloved”
15 Place for grazing
16 Appreciative cry
17 Travelocity ad
figure
18 “Hotel du __”:
Anita Brooknernovel
19 Still
20 Fabulous writer?21 Roth __22 Washer function23 Production
capacity review
26 Refused29 Very deep places33 Shore soarer34 Bellyachers38 Excessively
39 Work (on), as 
9-Down
41 “__ Romance”:
Jerome Kern song
42 TV princess43 Radamès’ love
44 Cover letter
letters
45 Far from bold46 Pentax
competitor
48 Cholesterol
initials
49 Hides
50 “U slay me!”
51 Chorus syllable52 Travelers’ bus.53 Teddy’s Mount
Rushmoreneighbor
55 Kitchen
appliance
58 Inflation fig.61 Office fasteners64 Like battleships65 Get by the sentry66 Looked inside, in
a way
67 Show the ropes
DOWN
1 It’s a long story2 Flooring wood3 “The Cookie
Never Crumbles”co-author Wally
4 Alter the shape of5 Custody6 Kukla cohort
7 With 36-Down,
what you can’t doregarding thispuzzle’s circled
letters
8 Portuguese
territory until
1999
9 Pitmaster’s
offering
10 Like dessert
wines
11 “... this skull 
has __ in theearth ... ”: Hamlet
12 Urban rtes.
13 Membership
drive gift
24 “The Thin Man”
role
25 Have what it
takes
26 “The Goldbergs”
actor George
27 Links legend,
familiarly
28 Conflicted
30 Classic golf shoe
feature
31 “Haystacks”
series painter
32 Overcharges35 “That really
depressed me”36 See 7-Down ...
or, with “a,” whatyou can see inthis puzzle’scircled letters
37 Isolated
communities
40 City south of Fort
Worth
42 Magneto’s
enemies
47 Sharer of the 2007
Nobel Peace Prize49 One of a gripping
tool pair
53 Trojan War 
hero
54 “Hamilton” role56 Mocked57 Puzzlemaker
Rubik
59 Go around60 Hall & Oates’
“Say It __ So”
62 Son63 My __, Vietnam
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/17/1611/17/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, November 17, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help WantedTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
NOW HIRING SERVERS
Apply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, Background 
Investigation Conducted Affirmative Action/ 
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call Misty @ the EDEP office 955-7766
11-18-16-5-14
STRIVE at GatorWell Grad student Lead Peer EducatorCampus violence prevention workAll identities welcomejobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 499420       11-18-16-
5-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Fire Your Boss Make job crushing income quickly and easily. http://instant10now.com/         11-22-16-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatest
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 15 ServicesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Who do you think will win 
Saturday's football game in Death Valley: Florida or LSU? Vote online at alligator.org/sports.UF men's golf signs four golfers to recruiting class
The Florida men's golf team added four new players to its roster, coach J.C. 
Deacon announced Wednesday. The group includes John Axelsen, Robby 
Eisch, Manny Girona and Chris Nido, who will all join the team for the 2017-18 season.By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
If the Gators hope to escape Ba -
ton Rouge with a second-straight 
Southeastern Conference East title, there’s two things they need to do according to head coach Jim McElwain. 
The first: Florida has to win  
its first downs on both sides of the ball. UF quarterback Austin Appleby will need to avoid nega
-
tive plays while the defense tries to contain the Tigers’ potent rush
-
ing attack. 
“I really believe that’s gonna 
be important for us,” McElwain said on Wednesday.
McElwain’s second item is lim
-
iting turnovers.  
Three turnovers, including a 
two fumbles and an interception during Appleby’s start on Satur
-
day, didn’t cost the Gators a win against South Carolina. But  McEl
-
wain said LSU will likely take ad -
vantage of those mistakes. 
Though the two teams have 
nearly identical turnover margins, Florida has lost a total of 15 turn
-
overs to LSU’s 14.
“That’s gonna be the key to ev -
erything,” McElwain said. “We’ve gotta do a good job of maintaining possession number one, but more than that we’ve gotta create some short fields defensively.”
UF forced to limit LSU’s dy
-
namic running back duo:
LSU running back Leonard 
Fournette gets most of the hype, but the Tigers have a second rush
-
er opening eyes this season.
Sophomore Derrius Guice has 
shredded opposing defenses this year.
His SEC-leading 8.72 yards per 
rush has helped him gain 97.89 yards per game, goof for fourth best in the conference. 
Fournette’s been sidelined a 
few games with an injury, but the combo has still contributed to an LSU rushing attack that averages more than 230 yards per game.
McElwain has been impressed 
by the pair and said they remind him of Mark Ingram, Trent Rich
-
ardson and Eddie Lacy, all current or former NFL players who McEl
-wain coached while at Alabama. 
“I see the same thing,” he 
said. “These guys feed off of each other.”
Who is the real DBU?
By looking at the statistics, the 
debate about who the real De
-
fensive Back University is leans 
heavily in Florida’s favor. 
Florida’s secondary ranks first 
in the SEC in passing yards per game (155.1) and is limiting op -
posing quarterbacks to a confer -
ence-best 92.26 quarterback rating and 43.5 completion percentage. 
To dig even deeper, UF has 
surrendered 108 touchdowns to LSU’s 117 since the start of the 
2008 season. Over that span, Flor
-
ida has recorded 148 interceptions 
to LSU’s 116. 
And while the players have 
been known to argue over which school is really D.B.U., UF defen
-
GAME INFO:
• Who:  No. 1 seed Florida vs. Wisconsin
• What:  NCAA T ournament second round
• When:  Friday at 7 p.m.
• Where: Donald R. Dizney StadiumMelissa Smith / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jim McElwain, right, talks with cornerback Quincy 
Wilson during UF's win over South Carolina on Saturday. 
Gators focused on limiting turnovers
Florida plays LSU Saturday
THE GATORS HOLD A 
1.5-MATCH LEAD IN THE 
SEC.
By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
After eight consecutive 
sweeps against conference op-ponents, it’s hard to fault the No. 5 Florida volleyball team. 
Through 26 matches, the 
team has only lost twice. The 
first was the season's opening 
match against No. 1 Nebraska.
The other was a Sept. 28 loss 
to the Kentucky Wildcats during 
a midweek matchup following a 
weekend on the road. 
Since then, the Gators have 
composed a blazing .343 hitting 
percentage, the best in the na-tion, to complement a 12-match 
winning streak. 
Now, as it nears the end of 
Southeastern Conference ac-
tion, a matchup with Missouri on Sunday might be one of its toughest yet. The Tigers trail the Gators by only 1.5 matches in conference play.
“We’re approaching it like 
it’s going to feel like an (NCAA 
Tournament) match,” UF coach 
Mary Wise said Wednesday. 
The Gators will have their 
hands full with Missouri play-ers such as Alyssa Munlyn, a 
sophomore middle blocker who 
ranks third in the conference in 
hitting percentage at .413, only 
trailing Florida middle blockers 
Rhamat Alhassan (.428) and Ra-
chel Kramer (.536).
She also ranks fourth in 
blocks at 1.31 per set. 
The Tigers also boast redshirt 
junior hitter Melanie Crow, who leads the conference in service 
aces per set and is fourth in total 
points.
But even with a formidable 
opponent up next, the Gators 
won’t be making many adjust-
ments to their preparation. UF volleyball team hoping 
to stay hot against Mizzou
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
When redshirt junior Gabby 
Seiler transferred from Georgia 
to Florida in 2014, she was an at-tacking midfielder who put pres-sure on opposing defenses.
During her two years in Ath-
ens, she tallied 10 goals and 31 points.
But when a pair of Florida de-
fenders suffered injuries earlier this season, Seiler was moved to centerback — a position she nev-er played at the collegiate level — and became one of the focal points of Florida’s backline.
“I think she felt like she 
would do whatever it took to help the team,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said. “Certainly that’s helped us in terms of just her ability to anticipate the ball, her ability to come out of the back with the ball. She’s been really good.”
Since she made the position 
change on Sept. 30 against LSU, Florida’s defense has been diffi-cult to score on.Seiler aiding UF’s defense 
through tournament playSEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK
SOCCERTHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
In the first 10 matches without 
Seiler in the backline, Florida gave 
up 16 goals.
In the 11 matches since, the 
Gators have given up only six goals and have shutout seven teams, including then-undefeated No. 2 South Carolina in the South-eastern Conference Tournament.
“When they put Gabby Seiler 
back there, me and (Gabby) work very well together,” defender Kris-ten Cardano said. 
“So I know tactically when she 
goes, I hold. Or if I go, she holds. So we’re constantly covering for each other and having each oth-er’s backs.”
But even though Seiler is one 
of the most experienced players on Florida’s roster, she has never played past the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
“It’s cool,” Seiler said. “The 
nerves are obviously there, but they are good nerves and positive nerves. It’s really exciting to even be in the NCAA Tournament, but 
even making it past the first round 
is just really awesome.”
On Friday, when UF faces 
Wisconsin in the NCAA Tourna-ment’s second round, Seiler and 
the rest of Florida’s backline will 
have a big test against the Bad-
gers, a team the Gators have never 
played.
And even though playing 
against an unfamiliar opponent 
can be a daunting task, Seiler said 
she is ready for the challenge.
“You get to play someone in 
another conference, which is cool and exciting and a different style 
of play,” Seiler said.
 “That’s the cool thing about 
the NCAA Tournament is you do get to play other teams from other 
conferences. So I think it’s excit-
ing."
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14UF has tough test vs.Wisconsin
sive backs coach Torrian Gray just 
wants his unit to settle it on the field.
“You’ve just got to go out and 
play,” he said. 
Injury update:Stopping LSU’s elite ground at
-
tack won’t get any easier with UF senior linebacker Jarrad Davis out of the lineup.
McElwain ruled Davis, who 
leads the team with 56 tackles, 
out against LSU. 
The senior will miss a second-
straight game because of an ankle 
injury, joining fellow linebacker Alex Anzalone (broken arm) on the sideline. 
The good news for Florida: 
CeCe Jefferson is likely to play.
The defensive lineman was 
held out against the Gamecocks with a foot injury but returned to practice this week. 
“(That’s) great to see,” McEl
-
wain said. “Just can’t tell you how excited I am about that.”
Questions, however, still re
-
main along UF’s offensive line. 
McElwain said offensive line -
men David Sharpe and Tyler Jor -
dan are questionable to play, with Jordan likely to assume a limited backup role. 
That leaves UF needing young
-
er linemen like T.J. McCoy and Kavaris Harkless to step up. 
“Those guys, I got total confi
-
dence in them,” McElwain said. 
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Jefferson 
likely to play
“We try to treat most matches the same,” 
junior outside hitter Carli Snyder said. “We 
aren’t preparing any differently, but we are preparing well for this match.” 
The team has had a full week to prepare 
for the matchup, which has been rare as of late. The Gators played at least two matches per week for the last five weeks.
“We are definitely working on a lot of 
little things in practice,” Snyder said. “The little things you don’t necessarily have time for when you only get two days to prepare for a match.”
The implications of Sunday’s match are 
huge: A defeat would pull Florida back into a three-way tie with Missouri and Kentucky in the loss column.With an SEC title at stake this late in the 
season, strong play is more important now than ever. 
“We have a huge motivation in practice, 
Snyder said. “These next few matches are here so we can win the SEC championship outright.”
@skylerlebron
slebron@alligator.orgVOLLEY,  from pg. 14Gators vying for SEC title as season winds downJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Gabby Seiler (38) and her teammates celebrate during Florida's 3-2 win over UCF on Sept. 18 at James G. Pressly Stadium. In the 11 matches with Seiler in the game, UF has given up just six goals.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Carli Snyder attempts a kill during Florida's sweep of Jacksonville on Sept. 16 in the Lemerand Athletic Center.
16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2016
