We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 165 TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
Treon Harris to transfer
The quarterback had an uneven career at UF,
pg. 14
Florida Fun Bikes features solar panel
It was installed by a UF graduate, pg. 5
UF researchers develop anti-virus program
It targets ransomware, pg. 8Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
Courtesy of Lisa Ryzhikova
Hailey Remigio, a 19-year-old UF neuroscience sophomore, attempts to get down a set of stairs outside Rawlings 
Hall. “No one actually stopped and gave me a second look, ” she said. “It wasn’t the slightest bit of a challenge for every passerby, but to me and other persons with disabilities, it was nearly impossible. And until you look through our eyes, you just won’t see it, not because you’re ignorant but because no one had shed light on it before. ”
By Monica Andrade
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s note: Though strides have 
been taken since the Alligator ran a 
two-part series in 1976 about calls for 
a more handicap-friendly campus, 
it seems there is still progress to be made.
The ﬁ  rst week at UF was the 
hardest for Hailey Remigio.
Because door buttons weren’t 
functioning at certain buildings, the 19-year-old UF neuroscience sopho-more had to call maintenance, caus-
ing her to be about 15 minutes late 
for class.
“After that, I talked to the Dis-
ability Resource Center about it, and 
they ended up being the ﬁ  rst acces-
sibility-related representatives that I had met on campus,” she said. 
Remigio is one of the more than 
1,770 students registered with the center, Paul Bernard, a promotional copywriter at UF, wrote in an email. 
Of those numbers, more than 50 
students — about 3 percent — have 
a physical disability, Bernard wrote. 
Remigio said she hasn’t always 
been a wheelchair user. In fact, she 
used to be a gymnast.
However, after a rare complica-
tion from a spinal tap left her legs paralyzed in May 2014, she now relies on her wheelchair and car to maneuver around campus.
Remigio said she also has to deal 
with uneven cutouts where the side-walk meets the road, causing her to sometimes splash through puddles.  
Though such issues are bearable, she said, parking is often more prob-lematic. 
She said horizontal white lines in-
dicate access aisles for handicapped parking spots, which can often be confused for the diagonal white lines designated for scooter parking.
When Remigio does park and 
make it to campus, she sometimes encounters a path with no ramp.
“I’ve come to so many dead ends 
trying to get into places with no indication that there would be no ramp,” she said.  
In an Aug. 19, 1976 Alligator 
article, Benny Higdon, a paraplegic 
who started school at UF in 1975, 
said ramps and sidewalks were hard to ﬁ  nd.
“The main problem is getting 
between buildings,” he is quoted as saying. 
Even when buildings do have 
signs pointing toward an accessible entrance, some wheelchair users still feel excluded, said Rick Nelson, 
an assistant director for UF’s DRC, 
where he has worked for almost 30 years. 
“It’s disappointing when I see 
brand new buildings open up and have made entrance points that ex-clude me as a chair user, but instead have signs pointing around the cor-ner to a secondary entrance, which 
means I’m still a second-class citi-
zen,” he said.Nelson said he thinks the prob-
lem is the result of people’s desire to have a “grand façade entrance,” or 
a fear of spending too much money. 
“The additional costs, if any at 
all, would be extremely minimal if 
it was originally included in the de-
sign,” he said.
As part of her Ms. Wheelchair 
Florida Takes Flight Campaign, for-
mer Gator Heather Taylor visited Cy-press Hall on July 19.
The residential hall was designed 
with features such as automatic doors and lowered lockers, and it houses the DRC.  
“I think there are six places in the 
entire nation that are like this,” Tay-lor said.
Kenneth Osﬁ  eld, a compliance 
ofﬁ  cer for UF’s Americans with Dis-
abilities Act Compliance Ofﬁ  ce, said his ofﬁ  ce received $400,000 from the 
university to upgrade campus facili-
 Students with disabilities still face struggles at UF
Some improvements have been made
By Isabella Dohse
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gator Gears, UF’s student 
bike rental program, has 
expanded its availability to all registered students. Last year, the program was ex-clusively offered to incoming freshmen at Preview.
Having started last Fall, 
Gator Gears received in-creased interest as the year went on, said Jacob Adams, the program assistant for UF’s Ofﬁ  ce of Sustainability.
Some students rely on 
bicycles to travel through campus.
“I used to walk around 
campus, which was nice for a week, but then I wanted to start sleeping in and getting places faster,” said Jamison Bene, an 18-year-old UF business management fresh-man. “So, biking proved to be much more convenient.”
The program offers the 
same type of bike in six dif-ferent sizes to allow for a wide range of students, Ad-
ams said. 
Bike rentals include bas-
kets, rear racks, helmets, U-
locks and free maintenance, 
according to a Gator Gears 
press release.
The program receives 
funding from the UF Student 
Trafﬁ  c Court, the Ofﬁ  ce of 
Sustainability and Transpor-
tation and Parking Services 
to allow it to maintain an af-
fordable price, Adams said.
Rental is available for up 
to three semesters at a time, he said. The ﬁ  rst semester is 
priced at $40, and each sub-
sequent semester is $30.
Reserved bikes will be 
available for pick-up during 
the ﬁ  rst week of the Fall se-
mester.
“We’re very happy with 
the program so far and look 
forward to Fall 2016, when 
we will have doubled our 
ﬂ  eet size to 200 bikes,” Ad-
ams said.  Bike rental 
program expandsSEE DISABLITIES,  PAGE 4“I cannot expect the world 
to be understanding and 
inclusive of persons with 
disabilities if I’m not willing 
to do the educating portion.”
Hailey Remigio
UF studentSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  88° LOW  81°
Local Events / News in Brief
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Bible Prophecy Forum 
Chi Alpha at UF will host a pro-
gram discussing several current 
world developments foretold 
in the Bible. It includes seg-
ments about globalism, Middle East chaos and the unfolding 
of a cashless money system 
(the “666” found in Revelation 
13:16-18). The “rapture” and 
second coming of Jesus Christ will also be covered. S. J. 
Michaels is leading the event. He is a graduate of Georgetown University School of Foreign 
Service and also holds a mas-ter’s degree in Biblical studies. 
The forum, which is free and 
open to the public, takes place 
today at 7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union, Room 3310.There’s Still Time to Enjoy the Great Outdoors
LifeSouth Community Blood Center will host a weeklong blood drive from Aug. 1 to 
Aug. 7. Everyone who donates 
at LifeSouth Donor Centers or bloodmobiles from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. will be entered to win a 
Great Outdoors prize package, 
which includes a tent, a YETI cooler, a kayak, folding chairs, a guided canoe trip and more! Give blood, save lives and be entered 
to win all the items you could 
dream of for your outdoor adven-ture. Remember, only you can 
prevent blood shortages! Donors 
must be healthy, 17 years or older (or 16 with parental permission) 
and weigh at least 110 pounds. 
A photo ID is also required. All 
blood donor heroes will be re-
warded with snacks, juice and a 
T-shirt. Visit lifesouth.org or call 
LifeSouth toll-free at 888-795-2707.Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgettenberg@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please 
submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 165
BIBLE PROPHECY FORUM
Current world events foretold! Globalism, Middle East Chaos, 
Cashless Money, 666 (Rev.13)
Tuesday, July 26 at 7:30 pm
Reitz Union Room 3310TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Demi Wolfe 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Mouser Electronics, an electronic compo-
nent distributor, launched a challenge for engi-
neers across the country to submit designs for objects that can be used in space.
The winning design, which can be a re-
search item, tool or entertainment component, will be 3-D printed and used by astronauts on the International Space Station. 
The I.S.S. Design Challenge, which opened 
Monday to all levels of engineers, focuses on college-aged students because a win can help launch their careers, said Raymond Yin, the company’s director of technical content.“College-engineering students are the future 
of innovation,” Yin said. “The I.S.S. Design Challenge allows them an opportunity to show 
their creative and technical talents at an early 
stage in their career and to truly be part of some-thing original that could impact space explora-tion on a global scale.”
Mouser Electronics connected with Made In 
Space last year when Mouser Electronics began researching space technology for the Empower-ing Innovation Together series. 
“We were intrigued by Made In Space’s 
plans to send a 3-D printer to the I.S.S., and we thought, ‘Wouldn’t it be cool to take it a step further and add electronic components to 3-D printed objects on the space station?’” Yin said.Students must submit an image of the de-
sign, an electrical graphic, the PCB fabrication files and a bill of materials, according to the 
company’s website.
The designs will be judged by Grant Imaha-
ra, the former host of “Mythbusters,” and Col. 
Chris Hadfield, the commander of the I.S.S. in 2013. 
According to the website, the first-place 
winner will receive a 3-D printer, and the sec-ond- and third-place winners will receive fluke meters, which measure voltage and currents for 
electronic projects. All participants will receive 
Mouser Genius T-shirts. 
Entries must be submitted before midnight 
on Oct. 7. UF has a 3-D printer on the third floor of the 
Materials Engineering building, which is free to all engineering students. 
Brandon Rosenthal, the lab manager for the 
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 3-D printing lab, said he enjoys how the challenge inspires students to get more involved during their time at UF. 
“If we can develop printers like this that 
work on the International Space Station, then eventually we can develop printers that can work on Mars,” said the 20-year-old mechanical 
and aerospace engineering junior. “This is really 
a cool entry step to that process, and its really cool that students have the ability to get in on this process early on.”
Electronics company creates 3-D printing design challenge
By Brianna Sachs
Alligator Contributing Writer
Swamp Dance Fest, a four-week 
summer dance intensive offered at UF’s G-6 Studio, will end this week with performances developed throughout the program.
Dancers will be challenged in 
rigorous classes, including modern, improvisation and composition, said Trent Williams, this year’s Swamp Dance Fest director. 
Williams, an assistant professor 
of dance at UF, said the majority of participants are incoming freshmen pursuing bachelor’s degrees in dance 
or students currently enrolled in UF’s 
dance program. Some students travel from other universities to take part in the program.  
Twenty dancers are participating 
this year, and those who are UF stu-
dents will receive three credits, said 
Kevin Austin, an academic advisor for UF’s College of the Arts. 
Dancers are able to interact and 
collaborate with guest artists, from whom they learn technique and how to explore creativity through choreog-raphy.  
This year’s festival features two 
guest artists: Duane Cyrus, an asso-ciate professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, and JoAnna Mendl Shaw, a long-standing choreographer and educator. 
Jennifer Klammer, a 19-year-old 
participant, said she’s had a wonder-ful experience and has learned a great deal from the guest artists. 
“I’ve been working a lot with 
Duane,” she said. “He bases his cho-
reography off of our movement, and 
I really like that process. It lets our voices as artists come out.” 
In addition to dancers developing 
their technical skills, they will experi-ence various special projects.  
Dancers will hear about the guest 
artists’ careers, people who they’ve worked with in the industry and 
how they made it as artists in today’s 
dance field, Williams said. 
Williams said the program is also a 
great networking ground for students once they have left the program.  
“A lot of our students go to New 
York and choreograph later on, or do their own work as well as work with guest artists who were part of Swamp Dance Fest with them,” Wil-liams said. 
Dancers in the festival create 
works performed by students and guests.
“The culminating performance 
showcases what the students have learned throughout the Summer, as well as share with their parents and friends the repertory that they’ve learned during the four weeks of be-
ing in this intensive,” Williams said. 
The final performances will be 
held Friday to Sunday at the McGuire 
Pavilion Black Box Theatre.  
Tickets can be purchased from the 
UF Box Office. Tickets are $13 for UF students, $15 for staff and faculty and $18 for community members, accord-ing to UF’s College of the Arts.
Klammer, a dance and journalism 
sophomore, said she hopes people 
who attend the final performance 
learn dance is more actively thought out instead of just movement. 
“Dancers are active thinkers, not 
just robots who kick, step, turn,” she said.
Dance program to host performances this weekend
Performance information
When: Friday to SundayWhere: McGuire Pavilion Black Box TheatrePrices:• $13 for UF students
• $15 for staff and faculty
• $18 for community members4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer
“Everybody has a butt, but do you 
actually know how to use it?”
This is the question Bria Forbes, a 
personal trainer at Gainesville Health 
and Fitness, asked during her fitness 
demonstration at the first Stay on Pace 
Health Fair hosted Saturday by Ala-chua Pace Center for Girls. 
The event was at 11 a.m. at Spring 
Hill Missionary Baptist Church, locat-ed at 120 SE Williston Rd. About 50 people attended.
Stephanie Darilus, the event co-ordinator, said the goal of the event was to raise awareness for community health for all ages.
“We want to make sure everybody 
gets the same type of resources and in-formation,” Darilus said.
One audience member said doing 
pushups for Forbes’ demonstration was his favorite part of the event.
“She reassured me that my form 
was correct,” said Richardson Paquiot, a 23-year-old UF philosophy senior. 
A hookah sat on 32-year-old Sarah 
Woolley’s table. Woolley is a tobacco treatment specialist from Suwannee River Area Health Education Center.“Young people aren’t really aware 
of the risk that using a hookah regu-larly puts them at,” she said.
She said an hour-long smoking ses-
sion is equal to about 100 cigarettes, and unclean hoses can spread viruses like herpes.
The audience also got a tasty treat 
from Qwamel Hanks, a 23-year-old program assistant for UF/IFAS’ Family Nutrition Program.
Hanks made whole-grain noodles 
with a homemade peanut butter sauce.
“A lot of people want to eat healthy, 
but they don’t know how,” she said.Local fair provides exercise tips, 
encourages healthy diets
ties this year.
State funding was an issue in the ’70s, according to Alligator archives, 
and a $300,000 request for building improvements was denied.  
An Aug. 17, 1976, Alligator article 
listed narrow bathroom stalls as an issue, but Osfield said most of his of-fice’s money now goes toward bath-room improvements. 
Remigio, who will soon navigate 
her second year of college (and lots of ramps), said she would like UF to hold an event that puts people in her wheels for a day.
“I cannot expect the world to be 
understanding and inclusive of per-sons with disabilities if I’m not will-ing to do the educating portion,” she said.
mandrade@alligator.org
DISABLITIES,  from pg. 1Copies of the original articles can be found at alligator.orgBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police focused on 
police violence at its monthly Police Advisory Council meet-ing Monday, which took place from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the 
Gainesville Technology Enter-
prise Center. 
The Northeast Gainesville/
Duval Area Front Porch Florida Community, Inc. joined the meeting to discuss the perception of increased violence between cops and citizens in America.
Chief Tony Jones said of-
ficers are trained to recognize Disproportionate Minority Con-tact, which describes how young black people are more likely to receive harsh treatment from law enforcement than their white counterparts. 
Along with the training, new 
officers are put on probation, 
which ends once they become a 
positive part of the community, Jones said.  
Because the department has 
a good relationship with the community, race relations in Gainesville have not been an issue for law enforcement, said Bob Cohen, chairman of the 
council.
He said citizens should know their rights and responsibilities 
in the community, and people should voice their concerns to 
the department. 
“Officers are nervous, citi-
zens are nervous because both 
are scared of being shot,” he said. 
Lois Harrison voiced her con-
cerns Monday evening. 
Harrison said she has been 
pulled over several times and 
that, while her experiences with 
older officers has been pleas-ant, many of her experiences with younger officers have been frightening.
“They yelled at me to get out 
of the car,” she said. “It’s scary impolite. I’m 80 years old — I don’t need that aggravation.”
Earlier in the meeting, coun-
cil member Juanita Miles-Hamil-ton asked if officers record their interactions. 
Chief Jones said half of the 
department’s cars have dash cameras, adding the rest would be installed in two years. He also said body cameras would cost 
about $430,000 to maintain in a 
year, which he requested from the U.S. Department of Justice.
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.orgGPD, residents  
gather for discussion
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
After a UF football player and an-
other Gainesville man intervened on a sexual assault near Midtown on Thursday, detectives are now searching for information about 
whether the man has assaulted oth-
er women.
At about 2:20 a.m. Thursday, 
Christopher L. Shaw, 34, led a wom-an behind a dumpster and raped her, according to a police report.
That’s when UF football player  
and 101 Cantina employee Cris-tian Garcia and Gainesville resi-dent Leroyea Sim-
mons decided the 
woman was too drunk to have given consent, ac-cording to the re-
port.
After they forced Shaw off the 
woman, they realized she had trou-ble walking, speaking and keeping 
her eyes open, according to the re-
port. Authorities later watched vid-eos of the attack and decided there was no way she could have given Shaw consent.
Police charged Shaw with sexual 
assault and took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, 
he remains in lieu of a $500,000 bond.
Gainesville Police recently an-
nounced Shaw may have raped other women, and it encouraged residents to contact Cpl. Amanda Prince at 352-393-7618 with any in-formation.
Residents can also submit anony-
mous reports by visiting reportra-pegainesville.org or texting “GPD-FL” and the information to 274637. Football player stops sexual assault
Shaw
TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Fruits and vegetables are just as 
edible whether they are picture per-
fect or dented and bruised, which is why Wal-Mart recently partnered with “I’m Perfect,” a company that 
sells slightly damaged produce.  
Hot temperatures, high winds and hailstorms sometimes damage 
produce, but the nutritional value and ﬂ  avor remain, according to a 
press release. 
Wal-Mart announced its goal to 
decrease waste and become the ﬁ  rst 
retailer to offer imperfect apples, hoping customers will look past the blemishes.
The apples are available in about 
300 Florida stores, according to the release, and will eventually be available in more than 12 varieties.
Employees from the three Wal-
Mart locations in Gainesville said their stores do not currently carry the apples. 
Jeff Brecht, a professor of post-
harvest physiology and horticulture at UF, said 30 to 40 percent of all produce in the U.S. is thrown out for imperfections. On his uncle’s farm in Califor-
nia, Brecht said he saw how a storm damaged the plum crops.
“My uncle was very upset that 
plums were very good to eat but couldn’t sell because of hail dam-age,” he said.
Wal-Mart also said in the release 
it would possibly use the apples to make apple juice or to include in lunch kits.Brecht said he is interested to see 
if the partnership is successful.
“The U.S. has an overabundance 
of food, but they are picky about the appearance of fruits and veggies,” he said. 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
 Wal-Mart to sell less-than-perfect apples in Florida stores
Zachariah Chou / Alligator
TAKE THE PLUNGE
T ommy Baker (left), a Repurpose Project employee; Sophie Feinberg, an 18-year-old UF journalism 
freshman; and Joe Uong, a First Year Florida instructor, dispose deteriorating scrap wood into a dump-ster on Saturday. The day was part of Summer Plunge, an event where volunteers spend the day doing service projects around Gainesville.
By Nancy Massani
Alligator Contributing Writer
The lights and speakers on Flor-
ida Fun Bikes’ 16-person bike will 
now be powered by a small rooftop solar panel.
Sprightful Solar, a company founded in 2015 by UF alumnus 
Pablo Corredor, recently installed 
the panel, according to a press re-lease. 
As a UF student, Corredor want-
ed to have solar powered tables in-stalled near the Hub, allowing other students to charge their phones and laptops. He researched solar power by 
buying his ﬁ  rst solar panel and bat-tery from Amazon.
“It’s very satisfying once you 
plug it in and turn on the system,” Corredor said. “Energy starts ﬂ  ow-ing and people get these huge smiles on their faces.”
Gainesville resident Derrick Rob-inson and his ﬁ  ancee, Amber Shel-
ton, said they opened Florida Fun 
Bikes in February after they rode similar attractions in other cities. 
“We wanted to bring a fun at-
traction to Gainesville,” Shelton said. “We want to make an effort to help revitalize downtown and make it a hangout spot. We thought this would be the perfect vehicle for 
that.”
The company takes customers on 
pub crawls throughout the city or on 
hunts for Pokemon, according to its website. 
“We want to give people some-
thing they can enjoy without hurting the environment,” Shelton said. 
Sixteen-person bike  now features rooftop solar panelBy Nealy Kehres
Alligator Contributing Writer
Aspiring bread-bakers, cheese-mak-
ers and beer-brewers will gather at the ﬁ  rst Tampa Bay Cottage Indus-try Expo on Saturday.
The event, hosted by the UF/
IFAS Pasco Extension ofﬁ  ce, will teach attendees about the cottage industry, where food is processed and packaged at home and sold di-rectly to consumers. 
“People have great ideas that 
they’re passionate about, and they want to turn those ideas into ac-tion,” said Whitney Elmore, the 
extension director for Pasco County 
and the coordinator of the event. 
Experts will present information 
to people looking to start or im-prove their own businesses. 
Highlights include a keynote ad-
dress about the food industry from Dr. Soo Ahn, an assistant professor 
of food science and human nutri-
tion, and a lesson in social media marketing from Tiffani Stephenson, UF/IFAS’ social media manager.
Elmore said the cottage industry 
keeps money rooted in local busi-nesses and is already a large por-tion of the agriculture industry in Pasco County, which brings in $74 
million a year.
“We have a lot of millennials 
in our region, and millennials es-
pecially like the idea of fresh, local produce,” she said. “So there is a big potential for this type of indus-try.”
The event will be from 9 a.m. 
to 3 p.m. at Wiregrass Ranch High 
School, located at 2909 Mansﬁ  eld 
Blvd. in Wesley Chapel, Florida. Admission is $30, and registration is available online.  UF/IFAS to host event 
on starting businessesThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The United States is on political suicide watch
My roommate, a modest conservative, 
had to endure the sight of me last week 
going full-fetal on our sofa, hugging a 
pillow, while I watched Fox News cov-
erage of the Republican National Con-
vention. “Why are you even watching this?” he asked, knowing full well my left-of-center views. 
“It’s like a train wreck,” I replied. “You just can’t 
look away.”
Now the cool thing about this particular train 
wreck is that the train was carrying the circus. For four days, I glued myself to my television and 
watched Rep. Steve King support white supremacy, former 
New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani gesticulate himself to 
death, Melania Trump become immortalized via meme-
hood for her copied speech, former candidate Ted Cruz tell 
people to vote their conscience instead of Trump (when 
booing, I can only assume Republicans know full well 
they’re not voting their conscience when they cast a Trump ballot) and, my personal favorite, Laura Ingraham leaving 
no room for ambiguity with a classy “Sieg Heil.”
Meanwhile, WikiLeaks recently released information 
that Debbie Wasserman Schultz and the rest of the left lead-
ership were planning on sabotaging the Sanders campaign 
by pressing him on his darkest and most vile secret: his 
Judaism. To make matters worse, more documents showed 
federal appointments would be given to big donors to the 
Democratic National Convention. These political moves are disgusting, inappropriate and would probably be effective 
(sadly). Political moves, mind you, Wasserman Schultz 
probably learned while she was here at UF Student Gov-
ernment, given that nepotism is rampant and campaigning 
here has a dirty history.
But in a battle of political suicide (Democrats going from 
#NeverHillary to #Hillary2016, Republicans going from 
#NeverTrump to #Trump2016), the winner of this elec-
tion will simply be the ones who destroy themselves less. Trump does that every time he opens his mouth or waves 
his tiny hands around. Clinton did it by appointing Wasser-
man Schultz as the honorary chair of her campaign team. 
Like, c’mon, Hillary (stop trying to make Hilldog happen, 
it’s not going to happen), your biggest problem this election is trustworthiness. We as a nation know you’re power-hungry, kind of corrupt and totally not-
transparent. But when you pull shit like this, it 
becomes hard (read: harder than it already is) to 
come to your defense.
It seems every time Trump tries to throw 
this campaign down the shitter, Clinton coun-
ter-throws with equal, if not more, impact. But 
there’s something about party anatomy that re-
ally plays into why I think Hillary will lose this election. During the primaries, the #NeverTrump 
movement was popular among party leaders, 
but the voters didn’t agree. The leaders did everything in their political power to stop the nomination, but the people 
shouted louder, so the Republicans backed off and uniﬁ  ed 
behind Trump. In our camp, Sanders was ﬁ  ghting a rigged 
system from the start, and we all knew — so obviously — 
that our party’s leadership was doing everything they could 
to stop him.
But attacking him because he’s Jewish? Prohibiting vot-
ing access such that literal class action lawsuits are ﬁ  led? The DNC planning to appoint top donors to federal boards 
and commissions? That’s some shady shit. It has complete-
ly validated the “Bernie Or Bust” movement because it’s 
embarrassing to be afﬁ  liated with a party that’s so unbeliev-
ably corrupt. All those voters that would have otherwise 
voted blue (regardless of the candidate) now either don’t 
vote, or worse, vote for Comb-over. Even more important-ly, such behavior alienates independents — the deciders 
of elections, let us not forget — who would otherwise vote 
blue.
The Democrats are committing political suicide at a 
much more alarming rate than the Republicans. As a lib-
eral, I’m humiliated at seeing such dishonorable conduct 
by the leadership, and I’m sad that it seems so rampant. 
President George W. Bush said behind closed doors he was 
going to be the last Republican president. Hopefully, some-thing new will emerge from the wake of our tumultuous 
Democratic Party. Hopefully, it doesn’t resemble what’s 
happening with our neighbors.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays.Who doesn’t love a good conspiracy ﬁ  lm? A lone ﬁ  ght-er struggling against a governmental authority re-
sponsible for controversial, covert schemes and rob-
bing our ﬁ  ghter of his identity? Matt Damon as Jason 
Bourne has satisﬁ  ed such spy inklings for years and 
will now return. First, there was “The Bourne Identity.” Then, “The Bourne Supremacy” and “The Bourne Ultimatum.”
Now, we have “The Bern Conspiracy.” Wait, what? Yes, 
Bernie Sanders and the Democratic National Convention.
In reading through the @dnc.org emails WikiLeaks pub-
lished Saturday, it’s hard to call the DNC leaks anything other than a conspiracy. On May 5, DNC chief ﬁ  nancial ofﬁ  cer Brad 
Marshall wrote to three of his colleagues if they should “get 
someone” (presumably from the press) to press Sanders on 
the authenticity of his Jewish beliefs. “This could make sev-
eral points difference with my peeps,” Marshall wrote ahead 
of the Kentucky and West Virginia primaries. “My Southern 
Baptist peeps would draw a big difference between a Jew and 
an atheist.”
Here’s a top ofﬁ  cial in an organization that proclaims itself 
as neutral suggesting to exploit one candidate’s religious, per-sonal beliefs and manipulate voters’ perception at the expense 
of that organization’s preferred candidate.
Adding insult to injury, a DNC staffer wrote to DNC Com-
munications Director Luis Miranda on May 21, “Wondering 
if there’s a good Bernie narrative for a story, which is that 
Bernie never ever had his act together, that his campaign was 
a mess.” It’s almost as if these ofﬁ  cials were campaigning for Hillary Clinton.
Of course, you could argue all this is really only the fault of 
the DNC and has nothing to do with Clinton herself. There’s 
no email evidence of Clinton’s overt validation of the DNC’s 
biases: We can speculate, but we can only make concrete dec-
larations based on what’s evident. So, Clinton’s camp was in 
the clear, right?
Well, yes, until Clinton hired former DNC Chair Debbie 
Wasserman Schultz, immediately after her resignation too, stating: “I am glad that she has agreed to serve as honorary 
chair of my campaign’s 50-state program… and will continue 
to serve as a surrogate for my campaign nationally.”
Put it this way: What the DNC did was so nefarious and 
indisputably corrupt that Donald Trump may have actually 
tweeted the ﬁ  rst truthful thing this entire campaign: “How 
much BAD JUDGEMENT was on display by the people in 
DNC in writing those really dumb e-mails, using even religion, 
against Bernie!”
When you’re so in the red a perpetually lying, neo-fascist 
oompa loompa can tell a sad truth about you, you’re not in very good shape.
The worst thing about this entire conspiracy is we would 
know nothing about it were it not for hackers and WikiLeaks; 
left to their own devices, the DNC would’ve carried on, busi-
ness as usual.
So rest assured, you can walk into “Jason Bourne” in the-
aters this Friday without brushing up on the Bourne trilogy to get re-accustomed to high-action conspiracy thrillers. We just 
had the greatest conspiracy take place right before our very 
eyes: with a party organization conspiring against one of its 
afﬁ  liated candidates behind closed doors and investing all of 
its resources into a ﬂ  awed, highly unfavorable candidate who 
ﬂ  uctuates between barely winning and outright losing to an 
orange Frankenstein’s monster.
What ﬁ  lm conspiracy could top that? And as far “high-ac-
tion,” well, did anyone watch Rudy Giuliani’s speech at the Republican convention? There’s no way the image of Giuliani 
raging and belting “America!” hasn’t given some poor child 
nightmares. #RatedRforRudyBourne-ing down 
the Bern: 2016
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
On July 15 in Istanbul, Turkey, soldiers 
closed the two bridges across the Bosphorus, the first indication that elements of the army were planning to remove the government of Presi-
dent Recip Tayyip Erdogan. In Ankara, the national capital, other soldiers took control of television stations and shelled the parliament building. President Erdogan had to use social media to rally his supporters. But by morning it was all over with Erdogan in full control.
A short-lived effort at regime change in a 
faraway country can’t affect us, but the gov-ernment response has an impact on our cam-pus and many others.
Academics are forbidden to leave the 
country, and any currently abroad are re-quired to return.  The day before the coup, 25 faculty from Gazi University in Ankara arrived in Gainesville, several with their families, to begin an intensive program in the UF English Language Institute. They have been informed that adminis-trators at their university have “resigned,” and they await an order to return home immedi-ately. A friend at a university in Virginia reported a Turkish col-league on a one year exchange has been ordered back to Tur-key “to be investigated.”
Turkey’s Ministry of National Education 
has summarily dismissed thousands of edu-cators, from research professors to primary school teachers, from their jobs. Since UF has long welcomed large numbers of Turkish stu-dents, UF alumni are certainly among them. If they are found to have ties to the Gulen movement, they will never be able to teach in Turkey again and unable to take posts abroad.
Erdogan has taken the ex-
cuse of a failed coup to launch a full-scale purge of suspected members of the Gulen move-ment from the military, the judiciary and education. Al-though Gulenists were his staunch allies in his rise to power, he broke with them and 
now wants to eliminate their influence alto-gether.
Who are the Gulenists? A movement 
grown around Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim religious scholar, that spread within Turkey and around the world. Its members every-where promote interfaith dialogue and un-derstanding, operating a network of chari-ties and secular schools, encouraging good relations with Israel and opposing hardline groups like the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas, as well as all violence in the name of religion. To President Erdogan, its continued existence makes it “a state within a state,” and a rival to his own government and the Islamist party he heads.
In the 1930s, American universities stood 
up for scholars who were excluded from aca-demic positions because of race, religion or political opinions and sponsored many of them who came to this country. The current situation may or may not be as dire, but ev-ery institution of higher learning ought to do everything possible to assist former students, classmates and colleagues who are caught in this government crackdown. Will UF lead the way?
Richard K. MacMaster is a retired UF 
professor of history.
UF and the failed military coup in Turkey: standing up for scholarsGuest column
Richard MacMaster
Speaking Out
First, it’s a way you can change the world. We need to produce more food over the course of your working lives than we have in the past 10,000 years. We’re not going to get there if people 
like you don’t come up with the scientific advances.
That’s a huge challenge. It also means 
huge opportunity for you to do good.
Sociologists have predicted that people 
your age are primed to become a “hero gen-eration” because of your care and concern about the wider world — and your belief that you can change it for the better.
Already half the people on the planet 
suffer from some level of malnutrition. That includes outright starvation, undernutrition that stunts growth and human potential and poor nutrition that drives skyrocketing obesity rates. And we’re projected to add another 2.5 billion people to the mix by the time most of you are about 55 years old.
Once upon a time we could grow our 
way out of this — just plant more acreage, add more fertilizer and irrigate more. But now subdivisions are paving over farms, the water supply is drying up, our fragile environment can’t withstand the amounts of pesticides and fertil-izers we used in the past, and climate change is projected to re-duce productivity.
We need future scientists like 
you to innovate our way off this collision course.
Second, agricultural careers 
offer huge opportunity for you to not only do good, but to do well. I mean well-paying jobs. 
The average starting salary for someone 
graduating with a bachelor’s degree in an agriculture and natural resources major is more than $51,000. That’s higher than the projection for health care majors.
Agriculture has too many jobs and not 
enough people to fill them. There are a pro-jected 58,000 job openings in agriculture and related fields each year that require at least a bachelor’s degree. The nation’s agri-cultural colleges aren’t producing anything close to that.
Third, I may be biased because of where 
I sit, but agriculture and natural resources are where the action is.When you were getting ready 
to enter elementary school, the Human Genome Project was com-pleted. It mapped all our genes: the instructions for the develop-ment and function of human be-ings. It was an absolute sensa-tion. And it has contributed to huge leaps forward in medicine.
You’re coming of age when 
we’re in a position to do something simi-lar in the plant world. We can make tre-mendous progress toward alleviating hu-man misery if we can map the complete microbiome of important crop plants and their soils. It’s a Mount Everest waiting to be conquered. It’s one of your generation’s moonshots.
If you can figure out how a plant’s mi-
crobes change with geographic area, weath-er conditions, farming techniques and more, you might be able to predict which mi-crobes will help crops perform better. That can translate to so many more mouths fed, better medicine and biofuel breakthroughs for a world of cleaner energy.
That’s just one example of how you’re starting your higher education careers at a time when agriculture is becoming cool again.
You’ll be on the cutting edge as an ag-
ricultural scientist. Your achievements will make the case for technology in the food world. We badly need that, because there’s skepticism that’s not grounded in fact over things like genetically modified organisms and climate change. As scientists focused on food, you’ll be able to help drive social change that leads to better health and a re-duction of human suffering.
You may be criticized, you may be 
doubted, you may be misunderstood, but you won’t be bored.
A lot of us in the field now are of retire-
ment age. We’re depending on you, and so is the world.
So please consider doing well, doing 
good and working on something cool. Con-sider agriculture.
Jack Payne is the UF senior vice presi-
dent for agriculture and natural resources and leader of the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.
Here are three reasons to consider a career in the agricultural fieldGuest column
Jack Payne
Speaking Out8  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
TECHNOLOGY
By Kelby Martin
Alligator Contributing Writer
Ransomware — viruses that 
steal computer files and hold 
them hostage for money — causes Americans to lose millions of dollars, and UF researchers are working on a solution. 
Nolen Scaife, a doctoral stu-
dent at UF’s Computer & Infor-mation Science department and co-founder of UF’s Institute for Cybersecurity, is helping create a program called CryptoDrop.
He said CryptoDrop, unlike 
other anti-virus programs that look for a known list of problems, 
is programmed to look for new 
attacks as they unfold, stopping them in their tracks. 
When ransomware takes over 
someone’s files (such as photos 
or Microsoft Word documents), 
it then demands a payment, he 
said. To prevent issues, he said, 
the program will work with other 
anti-virus software such as AVG 
AntiVirus or Avast.
Richard Newman, a UF as-
sistant professor in the Herbert 
Wertheim College of Engineering, said cyber crime is not very risky 
for criminals, making it just as 
popular as tradition crimes. 
“They’re (hackers) not going 
to get shot by a guard or police-
man or homeowner,” he said. “They’re not going to get bit by a 
dog.” 
Scaife said CryptoDrop cur-
rently works with Windows com-puters, and his team is looking 
for a partner to commercialize the 
program.
“If we can keep people from 
having the burden of paying the ransom, we believe that we can 
choke off the supply of money to 
the ransomware attackers,” he 
said. UF researchers working to create anti-virus program
Ransomware facts
Typical ransom fee: $200 to $10,000
McAfee Labs discovered more than 
one million ransomware samples in the third quarter of 2013 and four 
million in second quarter of 2015
CryptoWall, a type of ransomware, 
caused more than $18 million in  
losses from April 2014 to June 
2015TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
NATIONAL
PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Po-
lice briefly detained more than 50 
people after they tried to storm the barricades outside the Democratic convention Monday evening in a 
show of anger over Bernie Sanders’ 
treatment by party leaders, even as he urged his supporters to fall in line behind Hillary Clinton.
Several hundred Sanders sup-
porters and other demonstrators converged on Broad Street and made their way four miles to the convention site as the gathering was being gaveled to order, chant-ing “Nominate Sanders or lose in 
November!” and “Hey, hey, ho, 
ho, the DNC has got to go!” They carried signs reading, “Never Hill-ary,” ‘’Just Go to Jail Hillary” and “You Lost Me at Hillary.”
As tensions mounted outside the Wells Fargo Center, police moved metal fences into place and closed the nearest subway station to arriving trains. Fifty-five people were issued citations for disorderly 
conduct when protesters tried to 
climb over police barricades at the edge of the security zone surround-ing the convention, police said.
The anger reflected the widening 
rift inside the Democratic Party and the convention hall itself between Sanders’ supporters and Clinton’s. Debbie Wasserman Schultz re-signed as Democratic Party chair-woman Sunday over leaked emails 
suggesting the supposedly neutral 
Democratic National Committee played favorites during the pri-maries by siding with Clinton and bad-mouthing Sanders.
Speaking to delegates Monday 
morning, Sanders implored them to vote for Clinton, generating a chorus of boos.
“Brothers and sisters, this is the 
real world that we live in,” Sanders said. Donald Trump “is a bully and a demagogue.”
The protests took shape amid a 
punishing heat wave, with oppres-sive humidity and temperatures in the mid-90s, along with the pos-sibility of severe thunderstorms in 
the evening. The Fire Department 
handed out bottled water, and a few protesters were treated for heat-related problems.
Destine Madu, a protester from 
Maplewood, New Jersey, said it doesn’t matter if Sanders is calling on his backers to support Hillary Clinton.
“He’s like a Moses,” she said. 
“He led us to the promised land.”
The citations capped a day of 
demonstrations around the city on the opening day of the convention.
About 100 Sanders supporters 
made their way into Philadelphia by marching across the Ben Frank-lin Bridge from Camden, New Jer-sey. Among them was Jim Glidden, a salesman from Batavia, New York. He carried a big sign saying 
the DNC stands for “Dishonest Ne-
farious Corrupt.”“Only one guy is telling the 
truth out there,” he said, referring to Sanders. “And the DNC shut him 
up with lies and cheating.”
Another participant in the 
bridge march, Deborah Armstrong, 
of Spokane, Washington, said she and her husband went bankrupt because of his health problems, which required a heart transplant.
“I’m Bernie or bust,” she said. 
“I’m not going to have Trump held 
up to our head like a gun.”
The demonstrators espoused a 
variety of causes, including eco-
nomic justice, socialism and mari-juana legalization. With Sanders out of the race, some of them were backing Green Party candidate Jill Stein.
Tensions rose when about 50 
marchers sat down on Broad Street and refused to move unless the Mississippi state flag with the Con-federate emblem was taken down from a lamppost. The flags of all 50 states fly from light poles on the street.
City officials later removed the 
flag.
“The Confederate flag raises 
strong feelings in our city and across the country,” said Brian Ab-ernathy, Philadelphia’s first deputy managing director.
The four-day convention is far 
removed from City Hall and the skyscrapers of Center City.
In contrast, the Republican 
convention last week in Cleveland was held in a bustling part of the city. A heavy police presence and fewer than expected protesters helped authorities maintain order. Only about two dozen arrests were made.
More than 50 pro-Sanders demonstrators cited by police 
The Associated Press
Rep. Linda Sanchez, D-Calif., right, and her sister Rep. Loretta San-
chez, D-Calif., raise their hands together while speaking during the first day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on Monday.
The Associated Press
 A demonstrator is taken into custody by police after climbing over a barricade near the AT&T Station on Monday in Philadelphia during the first day of the Democratic National Convention.
The Associated Press
Florida delegates cheer during the first day of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on Monday.
10  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
FORT MYERS, Fla. (AP) — With 
the Orlando massacre still fresh on 
everyone’s mind, the mother of a 
young man who was slain at a night-
club early Monday had warned her son about what to do if there were a shooting: “hit the floor, find a table.”
But when gunfire erupted at the 
Club Blu parking lot, 18-year-old Stef’an Strawder didn’t have any-where to hide. He was killed along with a 14-year-old boy, and 17 other 
people ranging in age from 12 to 27 
were wounded during a swimsuit-themed party for teens.
“I told him to look for all the exits 
if any kind of shooting would go off, to hit the floor, find a table and get out of the way ... because I thought about the people in Orlando. That was a big thing,” Strawder’s mother, 
Stephanie White, told The Associ-
ated Press.
Since the shooting happened in 
the parking lot, “He didn’t have that chance,” she said.This rampage may have started 
with an argument over a rap perfor-mance. Police have not yet released 
a motive.
The shooting at a venue tucked 
in a strip mall also left 14-year-old 
Sean Archilles dead, and a state and its governor grappling with another tragedy. The massacre at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub last month killed 49 and wounded dozens of others.
“The positive is we are at a 45-
year low in our crime rate. The nega-tives — I can’t imagine this happen-ing to any person in our state. I don’t want this to happen to anybody in my state. The 20 million people who live here, the probably 150 million people who visit here. We just want everybody to be safe,” Gov. Rick Scott told reporters at a news confer-
ence in Fort Myers.
Fort Myers interim Police Chief 
Dennis Eads said the shooting was 
not an act of terrorism. Police de-tained three people and were search-ing for others, he added.
The shooting happened at about 
12:30 a.m. on Monday, just as the 
club was closing and parents were 
picking up their children.
Security guard Brandy Mclaugh-
lin, who was hired for the event, said she saw someone with a semi-auto-matic rifle open fire, with the attack sounding like “firecrackers.” Her car was hit in the spray of bullets.
“The rapper was upset, some-
one not being able to perform,” she said. “It wasn’t targeted, terrorist or gays, or anything like that. It wasn’t a black or white situation. It was an idiot. An idiot with a firearm.”
Club owner Cheryl Filardi, who 
said she was in the back room when the shots rang out, said at least 10 security guards were hired for the 
party — two in the parking lot, one 
or two at the door and the rest float-ing inside.
She said teen parties are some-
thing positive for a rough and often-violent neighborhood.
The youngest to die, Archilles, 
lived about a mile from the night-club, and loved to play football and 
basketball, said his father, Jean Ar-
chilles.
“He liked to make people laugh. 
He’s a funny kid. He’s always jok-ing,” Jean Archilles said.
Strawder starred on the Lehigh 
High School basketball team, aver-aging more than 15 points a game as a junior.
His sister also was at the party 
and was shot in the leg. She’s home from the hospital.
All around the home in the Fort 
Myers suburb of Lehigh Acres were testaments to Strawder’s athletic ability. 
He was the kind of guy who, 
even if he didn’t have much money, 
he’d pay for meals for teammates, 
his mother said.Mom of slain Florida teen warned 
son of nightclub shootings NEWS FROM AROUND THE NATION
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Seek-
ing a wider digital audience, Ve-
rizon is buying Yahoo for $4.83 billion in a deal that marks the end of an era for a company that 
defined much of the early internet 
but struggled to stay relevant in an online world dominated by Google and Facebook.
It’s the second time in as many 
years that Verizon has snapped up the remnants of a fallen internet star. The nation’s largest wireless carrier paid $4.4 billion for AOL 
last year. The two brands will be 
rolled into the same operation.
“We have enormous respect 
for what Yahoo has accomplished: This transaction is about unleash-ing Yahoo’s full potential,” AOL CEO Tim Armstrong said in a state-ment.
Despite Yahoo’s travails, its 
operations are a prize for Verizon, which wants to capitalize on the growing number of people living their digital lives on smartphones. The company already profits from the data plans that connect more than 100 million people and their devices to the internet. Now it’s making plans to control more of 
the advertising on those devices.
Most analysts expect the deal to 
end the four-year reign of Yahoo’s 
Mayer, who flopped in her much-watched attempt to turn around the company that was once a titan valued at $130 billion.
However, Mayer told employ-
ees Monday in an email she in-
tends to stay “to see Yahoo into its 
next chapter” without specifying for how long. In a later interview with The Associated Press, she said it’s too early to know whether there will still be a desirable role for her after Yahoo and AOL are combined.
“It would be premature and 
presumptive of me to discuss what Verizon may or may not want to do. I will be open-minded,” said Mayer, who could receive a sever-ance package valued at $55 million if she leaves following the sale.
In its announcement, Verizon 
did not discuss Mayer’s future or its long-term plans for Yahoo.
Shareholders fed up with a 
steep downturn in the company’s revenue over the past eight years pressured Yahoo Inc. to part with its email service and still-popular websites devoted to news, finance 
and sports, in addition to its adver-
tising tools.
The slump deepened even as 
advertisers poured torrents of cash into what is now a $160 billion market for digital advertising, ac-cording to research firm eMarketer.
But most of that money has 
flowed to Google and Facebook, 
two companies that eclipsed Yahoo 
during its long slide from a sensa-tion to a dysfunctional also-ran.
The sale could result in thou-
sands of layoffs as Verizon elimi-nates overlapping jobs and services in Yahoo and AOL. Mayer has al-ready jettisoned 1,900 Yahoo work-ers since last September.
The merging of Yahoo’s online 
operations with AOL’s sets up a po-tential reunion between Mayer and Armstrong, who were both execu-tives at Google for years.
When the sale is complete early 
next year, Yahoo will become a holding company for its two stakes in China’s e-commerce leader, 
Alibaba Group, and Yahoo Japan. 
Those investments, made more than a decade ago, are worth more than $40 billion before taxes, mak-ing them by far the most valuable pieces of Yahoo. The holding com-pany will drop the Yahoo name and adopt a new identity after Ve-rizon takes control of the operating 
business.Verizon buys Yahoo 
for $4.8 billion
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — An 
execution drug obtained by the Ar-
kansas prison system this month appears to have been made by a subsidiary of Pfizer, even though the pharmaceutical giant has said it doesn’t want its drugs to be used in executions.
The sale of the vecuronium bro-
mide by an unknown third party may show how difficult it could be for manufacturers to prevent such sales in states such as Arkansas that have execution secrecy laws.
The Associated Press on Mon-
day obtained redacted photos of the vecuronium bromide label from the Arkansas Department of Correction. It matches labels submitted to the National Institutes of Health by Ho-spira, Inc., which Pfizer bought last year. The AP also obtained the pur-chase orders for the drug, but the name of the third party that sold the drug to the department was redact-ed, in compliance with the state’s execution secrecy law.
Pfizer announced in May it had 
put in place sweeping controls to make sure its distributors would not sell its drugs for use in executions. In an email Monday, company spokeswoman Rachel Hooper reit-erated that position.
“We have implemented a com-
prehensive strategy and enhanced restricted distribution protocols for a select group of products to help combat their unauthorized use for capital punishment. Pfizer is cur-rently communicating with states to remind them of our policy,” Hooper wrote. She didn’t address whether the company was aware of the sale of its subsidiary’s drug to the Arkan-sas Department of Correction.
Maya Foa, who tracks pharma-
ceutical companies for the London-based human rights advocacy group Reprieve, defended Pfizer and Ho-spira, saying no pharmaceutical company wants its drugs used in executions.
“It is possible that Arkansas De-
partment of Correction was able to access a left-over supply of Hospira inventory that was sitting in old distribution channels. This is, of course, a finite supply. Pfizer’s new distribution system is extremely ro-bust, and the company is commit-ted to preventing the misuse of its medicines in executions,” Foa said by email.
Records obtained by the AP show 
the state agreed to pay $1,849.33 for 100 vials of vecuronium bromide on July 11 and $2,982 for a purity analysis of the drug. That’s almost 10 times less than the $18,478 the state paid in June 2015 for fewer doses of the drug.
Executions in Arkansas had been 
largely halted since 2005 because of legal challenges and trouble ob-taining execution drugs. In a bid to resume executions, the Republican-led Legislature passed the execution secrecy law last year. It requires the state to keep the details about its execution drugs secret, including the names of the drugs’ makers and sellers.
Nine inmates challenged the 
law, saying it could put them at risk of being subjected to unconstitu-tional cruel or unusual punishment and that it reneged on a previous agreement by the state to share in-formation about the sources of the its execution drugs.
The state Supreme Court up-
held the law in a split decision last month. The inmates indicated they planned to appeal to the U.S. Su-preme Court. Eight of their execu-tion dates had already been set, but their executions were on hold pend-ing the outcome of that appeal.
Pfizer company: Arkansas execution would ‘misuse’ drug THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Dave Allen, left, and Ryan Caviness pray for the victims of a deadly shooting outside the Club Blu nightclub in Fort Myers, Fla., on Mon-day. Police said the gunfire, which erupted at a swimsuit-themed party for teens, was not an act of terrorism. Caviness’ cousin was friends with Stef’an Strawder, who died in the shooting.
TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-28-16-12-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-22-16-15-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
4/4 All inclusive w/cable and utility pkg. 1800 SF furn. exc. for beds. Countryside at UF- call or text Cindy for pics or to see-352-339-3763. 8-4-16-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,
2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
2BR/1BA Apartment located across the street from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. $1000/MO-$1000 Security Deposit. Utilities & Cable not included. No Pets. Shown by Appointment Only. 16 NW 20th Terrace, 32603. (352-332-3945) 8-4-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, 
newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. 
Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet 
home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW
5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
Part time cleaner needed for home,apartments, and office cleanings m-fri 8-5, wed 8a-10p and sat 8a-3p. Must be a fast, energetic cleaner in good shape to per-form any cleaning task with no limits. Must own a reliable car and be willing to service Gainesville, Jonesville, williston, and mor-riston. Must past a background/drug test. Paying $8.50/hr and weekly pay ..If inter-ested please call 352-214-0868     7-26-5-14UF Survey Research Center 
$9.50 - $10 per hour +
bimonthly bonus + Paid Training
No Sales
*Spanish speakers needed
Find us on Gator Jobs! 
http://jobs.ufl.edu
7-26-16-4-14
NEED CLINICAL EXPERIENCE BEFORE ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL?Paid, Full-time employment.Training provided.Send resume to Dr. Levy, afn22025@att.net    8-4-6-14
AUTOMOTIVE TECHNICIAN NEEDED. Must have diagnostic skills & exp in both for-eign and domestic vehicles and have tools. Fax resume to 386-758-4759 or email to cacrepair@yahoo.com    8-2-16-5-14
Country Inn & Suites currently seeking front desk rep,  night auditor,  & housekeeping at-tendant. Hotel front desk exp. preferred. Also seeking part time house man. Apply in per-son 4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, Fl 32608  8-2-16-5-14
Out of town Gator Alum needs help with tailgates for all home games! looking for a reliable, trustworthy and energetic individual to help prepare, set up tailgate, take down tailgate and store items for the next home game. Great Pay! Great Opportunity! Email me at gatorgamedays@gmail.com 7-28-16-4-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
1. Cincinnati pitcher Aroldis Chap-
man set a major-league record in 2015 
for fastest to reach 500 career strike-
outs (292 innings). Who had held the 
mark?
2. The 1954 World Series featured 
the batting-average champions for 
each league. Name them.
3. Florida State set a record in 2015 
for most NFL draft picks in a three-year period (29). What two schools 
had held the record of 28?
4. Name the last NBA rookie before 
Orlando’s Elfrid Payton in 2015 to 
have back-to-back triple-doubles.
5. When was the last time before 
2016 that the University of North Dakota won the Division I Men’s Ice Hockey Championship?
6. Name the last person other than 
Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo to 
win the FIFA Ballon d’Or (top male 
soccer player in the world).
7. When was the last Kentucky Der -
by in which every horse entered had won a race as a 2-year-old?
Answers
1. San Diego’s Craig Kimbrel (305 
innings).
2. The New York Giants’ Willie 
Mays (.345) and Cleveland’s Bobby Avila (.341).
3. Miami, Fla. (2002-04) and South-
ern Cal (2008-10).
4. Boston’s Antoine Walker, in 1997.
5. It was 2000.
6. Brazil’s Kaka, in 2007.7. It was 1993.
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 25, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
You need the money
to do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Current world events foretold! Globalism, Middle East chaos, Cashless money 666 (Rev.13)
Bible Prophecy Forum   
Tuesday July 26 at 7:30 pm 
Reitz Union Room 3310  
7-26-16-3-20Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Small Blind White Dog with black face. Last seen Madera Subdividion.All info ap-preciated. Picture at- https://flic.kr/p/KfkeBu Bonzaicb@yahoo.com 352-222-1080Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
ACROSS
1 Willy Loman’s
favorite son
5 Surrounded by
9 Site with a “Find
a Doctor” section
14 Recline lazily15 Ricky Martin’s
“Livin’ La 
Vida __”
16 Firefighter Red
17 Jai __18 Ajar19 Like the yolk in
Eggs Benedict
20 “SportsCenter”
co-anchor
23 Kenan’s comedy
partner
24 Pottery material
25 Uproar
27 Microfilm unit30 Tuba sound32 To whom
Lennon’s“Woman” is
dedicated
33 Bit of shuteye
36 Cheers from the
stands
39 Sharable PC
files
41 Maker of candy
“pieces”
42 Yorick’s skull in
“Hamlet,” e.g.
43 Waiting room
seat
44 “Location,
location,location,” to areal estate agent
46 Test for M.A.
seekers
47 Playwright Albee49 Deli loaf51 Cybermoniker53 Word with map or
code
55 “Morning
Edition”broadcaster
56 Extreme onset of
anxiety
62 Unrefined64 Uproars65 Better __ ever66 Cutting beam67 “Sommersby”
actor Richard
68 Prefix with
dextrous
69 Spirit of a people70 Beach cover71 Tree houseDOWN
1 Not at all thrilling
2 City in southeast
Kansas
3 Spanish dessert4 Shrink back5 Hi and bye on
Lanai
6 Sister of Peter
Rabbit
7 Rapper-turned-
actor
8 Five-O detective’s
nickname
9 Get ready in the
bullpen
10 Dean’s URL
ender
11 Overdraft fee,
e.g.
12 One who digs
hard rock?
13 How deadpan
humor isdelivered
21 Actor Guinness22 “__ Room”:
longtime kids’show
26 Waterproof cover
27 Natty dressers
28 __-European29 Caffeine jitters30 Without letup31 Tobacco kiln34 Doomed Spanish
fleet
35 Drop on a cheek37 Israeli dance38 Went too fast
40 __ City: Baghdad
suburb
45 Aid in a bad way
48 Windshield
cleaners
50 Wicker material51 One who might
call you his niece52 Fat-avoiding Jack
53 Part of a
squirrel’s stash
54 Demolished, in
Devon
57 Reminds ad
nauseam
58 Inspiration
59 Woeful words
60 Street fleet
61 Make mittens, say63 “Gloria in
Excelsis __”
By Janice Luttrell©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/26/1607/26/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, July 26, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"15 Services
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Adarius Lemons, left, committed to Florida following UF's Friday Night Lights, the school's annual recruiting event. Read the story on pg. 16Poll Results: Which was the best UF team of 2015-16?
 Women's Basketball 10.5%   Softball 36.8% 
 Women's Golf 5.4%    Football  10.5 %  Other 36.8%TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Emily Cochrane / Alligator
Treon Harris (center) begins to stand after being tackled during Florida's 27-2 loss to Florida State on Nov. 28 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. 
A QUIET ENDING
Staff Report
After two years at Florida, Treon 
Harris is transferring, the school 
conﬁ  rmed Monday.
Harris started nine games at 
quarterback for the Gators last season 
and six in 2014.
After former UF quarterback 
Will Grier was suspended for taking 
performance enhancing drugs last October, Harris became the full-time starter. The Gators ﬁ  nished the season 4-4 with Harris at the helm.
Harris ends his UF career with 2,695 
passing yards, 18 touchdowns and 10 
interceptions through 21 games. 
He also rushed for 570 yards and 
three touchdowns on 171 carries.
Harris’ time at UF was marred by off-the-ﬁ  eld incidents. 
The quarterback was suspended 
from the team in October of 2014 after 
being accused of sexual assault of a female student. 
The UF student withdrew her 
complaint less than a week later.
Then, in March, Harris and standout 
sophomore receiver Antonio Callaway were suspended from the team 
indeﬁ  nitely after violating the school’s 
student code of conduct. 
No resolution has been made in that 
suspension. 
Harris is the latest in a long line of 
UF quarterbacks to transfer from the school in the last ﬁ  ve years, joining Will Grier, Jeff Driskel, Skyler Mornhinweg, Max Staver, Tyler Murphy and Jacoby 
Brissett.Treon Harris leaves Florida 
He threw 18 TDs in 21 games Harris’ decision to transfer 
best for everyone involved
This is for the best.
It came to an end on 
Monday, a relatively quiet 
ﬁ  nish for a player who 
made fans cheer, rage and 
beg for better over the course of two years.
Treon Harris is the latest in a 
line of Will Muschamp-courted quarterbacks to leave the school, looking for a position of promi-nence he’ll no longer get with Jim McElwain. 
But it’s for the best.There is no question about that, not after 
it started with a sexual assault allegation in-volving another UF student in 2014, a com-
plaint that was later withdrawn.
Not after the start of his sophomore year, when Harris fell behind Will 
Grier in the quarterback compe-tition, throwing for just 54 yards in Week 2 against East Carolina 
while Grier threw for triple that 
and slung two touchdowns.
Not after Harris replaced 
Grier in October, after the latter 
was suspended for taking perfor-
mance-enhancing drugs, step-ping down from an undefeated 
team and handing the reins to Harris, who ﬁ  nished the season with a 4-4 record and 
three-straight losses.
Not after being sacked 13 times in his last 
three games, spurring a fan base to clamor 
for the consistency that they had grown ac-
 Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15Treon Harris  
• July 2016
Will Grier 
• December 2015
Skyler Mornhinweg
• May 2015
 Jeff Driskel 
• January 2015
Max Staver • December 2013
Tyler Murphy • December 2013
Jacoby Brissett• January 2013Recent UF QBs 
Who Transferred
IT'S COHEN DOWN / OPINIONTUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
JULY 25, 2016
Harris to transfer 
Florida confirms that Harris will transfer 
from the school.FEB. 5, 2014
Harris signs with UF
Treon Harris flips from Florida State to 
Florida on National Signing Day. Harris, 
hailing from Miami’s Booker T. Washington High School, was rated as the No. 9 athlete in the country and the No. 18-overall athlete in Florida by 247Sports. SEP. 6, 2014
Harris plays in first college game 
Harris, listed as No. 2 on UF’s depth 
chart behind Jeff Driskel, plays in Flori-da’s 65-0 blowout of Eastern Michigan in the team’s season opener. Harris went 2-for-2 and passed for 148 yards and two touchdowns, building excitement about his potential. 
OCT. 4, 2014 
Harris leads UF to comeback win over 
Tennessee
Harris leads Florida to a come-from-be-
hind win against Tennessee at Neyland Sta-dium. When Harris entered the game late in the third quarter, the Gators trailed 9-0. He drove the Gators to the end zone on his first drive and got them into field goal range on his second. Austin Hardin sealed the victory with a 49-yard field goal. 
Harris went 2-of-4 for 17 yards and add-
ed 24 yards on the ground on four attempts. The victory — along with Driskel’s three 
interceptions — caused fans to clamor for 
Harris to take over the starting role. 
OCT. 10, 2014
Allegations against Harris are dropped  
The student who accused Harris of as-
sault drops her complaint and Harris is al-lowed to return to the team. 
NOV. 1, 2014
Harris makes his first start 
Following a 42-13 loss to Missouri 
on homecoming, Will Muschamp starts Harris against Georgia. Harris leads the Gators to a 38-20 upset win while throw-ing for just 27 yards and rushing for 31. JAN. 3, 2015
Harris ends his first season  
After finishing the regular season 3-2 as 
a starter, Harris leads the Gators to a 28-20 win over East Carolina in the Birmingham Bowl.
SEP. 5, 2016
Harris starts Florida’s 2015 season opener 
Harris starts UF season opener against 
New Mexico State, throwing for 215 yards and two touchdowns. It was his last start until Will Grier’s suspension. SEP. 12, 2015
Will Grier replaces Harris as UF’s starter
Grier replaces Harris as UF’s starting 
quarterback, but Harris still receives reps in the game. The following week against Kentucky, Grier cements his position as the starting quarterback.
OCT. 12, 2015
Grier suspended; Harris forced back into starting role 
Grier is suspended for violating the 
NCAA performance-enhancing drugs policy. Harris is left at the de facto starter for the week’s game against LSU in Baton Rouge. JAN. 1, 2016 
Harris plays in last game as a Gator 
Harris finishes the season with a 4-4 re-
cord following a 41-7 blowout against Mich-igan in the Citrus Bowl. 
MARCH 8, 2016
McElwain announces Harris’ suspension
UF coach Jim McElwain announces 
that Harris and former high school team-mate Antonio Callaway have been away from the team since January. It is later revealed that the two were suspended for unspecified reasons. Treon's Timeline
customed to under Grier.
Not after drawing a second 
suspension last March, when 
the team announced he and re-
ceiver Antonio Callaway would not participate with the team during Spring camp due to a 
violation of the UF student code 
of conduct, a suspension that still has not been resolved.
Not after rumors swirled 
around the program that Harris 
would be moving to receiver, 
making way for a quarterback competition that included trans-fers Luke Del Rio and Austin 
Appleby, and freshmen Kyle 
Trask and Feleipe Franks, but never Harris.
Harris’ decision to transfer is 
clearly for the best, a decision 
that follows a trend of those be-
fore him, a long line of former quarterbacks to transfer from the school since 2013: Will Gri-
er, Jeff Driskel, Skyler Mornhin-
weg, Max Staver, Tyler Murphy, Jacoby Brissett.
And now Treon Harris.Like each of those quarter-
backs, Harris’ spot on Florida’s roster had been diminished. There was no longer a place for him, even if he was to join the team’s receiver corps, a group that already has Callaway, al-
ready has four-star freshman 
recruit Tyrie Cleveland, senior Ahmad Fulwood, slot receiver C.J. Worton and other young 
talent.
So Harris will transfer, and 
although he will be forced to sit 
out one year at another Division I program due to NCAA transfer 
rules, he will likely have a bet-
ter chance to succeed wherever he lands, with a blank slate and zero expectations, if that is the 
route he chooses to pursue.
His decision is also undoubt-
edly beneficial for Florida and 
second-year coach Jim McEl-wain, a program and a person-
ality, respectively, who will be 
able to wash their hands of an athlete with an inconsistent track record on the field and  
muddled by a history of viola-
tions off of it.
After 21 games played, 18 
touchdowns thrown and two suspensions distributed, it be-
came abundantly clear on Mon-
day.
This is for the best.
Ian Cohen is the Sports Editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.
org and follow him on Twitter @
icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg14Harris is the seventh 
quarterback since 2013 
to transfer from Florida
Alligator File Photo 
Treon Harris looks on during Florida's 29-15 loss to Alabama in 
the 2015 SEC Championship Game on Dec. 5.
OCT. 6, 2014
Harris suspended after accusations of sexual assault 
     Harris is suspended following allega-tions that he sexually assaulted a female student early Sunday morning after returning from Knoxville. 16  ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 26, 2016
RECRUITING
 By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Adarius Lemons is staying home. 
The Clearwater native arrived at 
Friday Night Lights  — Florida’s an-
nual in-house recruiting event — last Friday committed to North Caro-
lina. But the four-star running back 
changed his mind and flipped to UF, according to a Tweet posted on his account on Sunday. 
Lemons is the No. 8 running 
back and No. 139-overall player in the country, according to 247Sports. His commitment to the Gators brings UF’s 2017 class up to 12 members, with Lemons being its second-high-est rated player. 
The only athlete ahead of the 
6-foot, 195-pound back on the 
247Sports rankings is fellow Tampa 
Bay area standout Zachary Carter, a four-star defensive end from Hillsbor-ough High School. 
The team’s third-best prospect on 
the list, wideout Daquon Green, also hails from the area as a star at Tampa Bay Tech. 
Gators nab linebackerWhile Lemons committed after 
leaving Friday Night Lights, South Florida native James Houston didn’t wait.
Hailing from American Heritage 
High School in Plantation, the 6-foot-1, 225 pound linebacker boasts 26 Division I offers, according to 247Sports, and committed to UF at the event. 
Houston is the No. 9-rated player 
in Florida’s 2017 class, according to 247Sports. 
Recruiting Roundup While UF has done well in the 
Bay area with the Tampa Bay trio at the top, another region of emphasis is South Florida. 
And at the top of the Gators’ 
South Florida wish list is four-star quarterback Jake Allen. 
The 6-foot-3, 200-pound pocket 
passer from high school powerhouse St. Thomas Aquinas has been com-mitted to the Gators for over a year.
In addition, Florida has nabbed Miami natives Kadeem Telfort (three-star, 6-foot-7, 300-pound offensive tackle) and Kemore Gamble (four-star, 6-foot-4, 216-pound tight end). 
The Gators will look to continue 
picking up commitments from South Florida by targeting players like Jake Allen’s teammate Trevon Grimes (five-star, 6-foot-3, 202-pound receiv-er) and American Heritage’s Marco Wilson (four-star, 6-foot, 180-pound defensive back). 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
UF football lands two commitments from Friday Night Lights 