We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 61 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
UF basketball team improving 
from foul line
But guard KeVaughn Allen is in a shooting 
slump, pg. 15
GAU gears up to protest graduate student fees
They plan on delivering messages to UF President Fuchs Friday, pg. 3
Nepalese human-rights activist to speak at UF
She founded Action Works Nepal, pg. 8BurgerQuE closing, Karma Cream
moving 
Read the roundup of West University Avenue
changes, pg. 5
HE SPOKE TO A 
CROWD OF MORE 
THAN 500 PEOPLE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
For Alex Rodriguez, 2014 was a 
turning point.
He was suspended from the 
MLB that year, after it was discov-
ered the baseball superstar took performance-enhancing drugs dur-
ing his career. Up until that point, 
he was one of the game’s most 
decorated players, notching 14 all-
star appearances and a World Se-
ries win.
But he soon became a villain in 
the eyes of many.
“I made my bed. I have to lie on 
it,” the retired New York Yankees third baseman told a crowd of 541 
students and residents Tuesday at 
the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts.
As a part of the Accent Speak-
ers Bureau’s 50th anniversary, Ro-
driguez spoke about the moments that deﬁ  ned him: growing up in a low-income home, becoming a star, then becoming a villain — before turning it around, in part, through his fatherhood and entre-preneurship. 
“There’s this saying that ath-
letes die twice,” once when you retire and the other when you die 
in real life, he said.
Rodriguez implored students to 
admit mistakes and learn from his 
lapses in judgement, which led to 
the longest temporary drug suspen-
sion in the MLB.
“What a lot of people don’t 
realize is that I’m ﬁ  fth all time in 
strikeouts,” he said, a nod to his 
past.
Rodriguez also recalled the best  Alex Rodriguez shares 
‘a story of redemption’  
THE MAYOR OF ORLANDO 
SPOKE AT THE EVENT.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Pulse nightclub in Orlando was the ﬁ  rst 
place where UF law student Benjamin “Ben-
ny” Menaged was able to celebrate his sexu-ality.
On Tuesday, Larry D. Smith, the recipi-
ent of the G. Kirk Haas Humanitarian Award and an Orlando attorney, stood in front of a crowd of about 250 people at the UF Levin College of Law to recognize the college and Menaged for increasing diversity and in-clusivity. As a recipient of the Haas award, Smith chose one Florida law school and one student from that school to honor. 
He chose Menaged, who received a schol-
arship of about $3,000 and became the ﬁ  rst openly gay man to accept it. The ceremony also acted as a tribute to the 49 victims who died in the Orlando shooting.
Orlando Mayor John Hugh “Buddy” Dyer 
said he appreciated people supporting the UF student organization OUTLaw, which celebrates the LGBTQ+ community.
“I was expecting a sea of orange and 
blue, but I’m loving this grey,” he said, re-
ferring to the shirts students wore with a 
Gator holding a rainbow ﬂ  ag.
Although Menaged wasn’t there the night 
of the shooting, he said he felt its devasta-
tion. 
“You hear about all these huge trage-
dies and shootings all over the world,” the 
25-year-old said, “but when it happened in 
Orlando, for me and so many in Gainesville, 
it really hit close to home.” 
As the former president of Outlaw, Me-
naged said his goal was to increase the vis-
ibility of the LGBTQ+ community on cam-pus and make it possible for students to feel accepted. 
“I just wanted to make gay people in the 
law school, and in the LGBTQ+ communi-
ty, feel more at home here,” he said.
Smith gave Menaged a framed quote 
from Deuteronomy, a book in the Bible, that 
reads “Justice, justice shall you pursue,” to  UF Law, student honored 
for increasing diversity
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
More than 250 people attended the Unity at UF Law  event Tuesday afternoon in the UF 
Levin College of Law’s courtyard. The event was meant to celebrate the LGBT+ community and honor two of its members for their humanitarian efforts in the legal profession.
SEE ACCENT,  PAGE 4
SEE UNITY,  PAGE 4Grace King / Alligator Staff
Alex Rodriguez speaks to the audience at the Accent Speakers Bureau’s third event of the semester on Tuesday evening. Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Underground: mu-
sicians showcase / RUB 
Entertainment
Join the Reitz Union Board Entertainment on Thursday to experience an array of perfor-
mances by some of Gainesville’s 
best up-and-coming artists. 
With musical acts ranging from electronic to a cappella to pop 
rock, the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom will transform into a one-stop venue for promising local artists of all genres. Acts include a DJ set by Gainesville’s Low Poly, Brooke & Brian from UF’s Singer Songwriter Society, Andy King from UF’s Singer Songwriter Society and UF’s The Sedoctaves. Doors open at 7 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom.
Big Heart Gators and Katie 
Caples Foundation work to save livesThe Katie Caples Foundation is partnering with UF’s Big Heart Gators for an organ, tissue and eye donor registration drive through Friday on campus. Big Heart Gators and KCF are work-ing closely with Donate Life Florida representatives, who will be providing practical train-ing and education to Big Heart Gators. In addition to registering new organ donors, student vol-unteers will answer questions about organ donation to inform, educate and dispel the myths associated with donation and transplantation. With a campus population of more than 90,000, Big Heart Gators is hoping to register 500 new organ donors. For more information, find Big Heart Gators at facebook.com/BigHeartGators or the Katie Caples Foundation website at katiecaples.org. To learn more about organ donation and to register online, please visit do-natelifeflorida.org.
Fall Greek Blood Drive
The annual Fall Greek Blood Drive hosted by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held until Friday. All blood donors will earn points for their chapter and spirit points toward Dance Marathon 2017. Donors will also receive free T-shirts and will help save lives. Bloodmobiles will be located at the Gainesville Donor Center, Newberry Road Donor Center, the Hub, Turlington Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. For more information, email lgbialeck@
lifesouth.org or call 352-359-
0988.
Survivors of Suicide Candlelight 
Vigil
The Fourth Annual Survivors of 
Suicide Candlelight Vigil will be 
held Saturday at the Survivors 
of Suicide Memory Garden in Cofrin Nature Park, located at 
4810 NW Eighth Ave. Activities 
will start at 4 p.m. with a cer-
emony beginning at 5:45 p.m. This event is free and open to the community, and refresh-
ments will be provided. The 
vigil will be sponsored by the 
Friends of the Crisis Center and the Survivors of Suicide Support Group. For more information, 
please contact Donna Eckel at 
raggedyds@aol.com.
See how students turn waste into 
art during Trashformations at 
the Florida MuseumEver wonder how milk jugs morph into beautiful wading birds or how gears and gad-gets become gigantic bugs? See how Alachua County middle-school, high-school and college students transform waste into works of art Friday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The museum will dis-play winning entries from the 18th annual Trashformations through Nov. 28. This event is made possible in part by the Alachua County Office of Waste Alternatives and the Alachua County Board of County Commissioners.
APIACare (Mental Health): Final 
Exam Care PackageMental health is an issue that affects everyone. This finals season, Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs would like to encourage everyone to priori-tize mental health by providing students with care packages that include items such as cof-fee, medicine, hygiene products and more in order to promote successful and healthy study-ing during finals. If you’re a pet owner, APIA has created a Paws and Claws care package filled with toys, treats and resources you can share with your pets. Also, APIA has a care package made for children, because we acknowledge that some UF stu-dents and faculty have young children at home, so balancing family, work and school may be tough. Be sure to take care of yourselves and the ones you love: your peers, pets and chil-
dren.
ECAASU Campus Tour: Atypical
The Office of Asian Pacific 
Islander American Affairs and 
the Asian American Student 
Union are proud to bring 
ECAASU (East Coast Asian 
American Union) Campus Tour: Atypical to UF at noon 
Sunday in the Reitz Union, 
Room 2365. Registration begins 
at 11:30 a.m. The tour aims to inspire, educate and empower students interested in APIA is-
sues. ECAASU National Board 
Director Kathryn Quintin will be 
here to listen to and acknowl-edge the issues specific to the UF campus and discuss poten-
tial campus action plans. The 
campus tour aims to celebrate 
collective histories through the Asian-American Studies minor, challenge the forms of exoticiza-tion of ethnic foods and explore the ways in which people brand themselves. There will be a so-cial afterward at Yogurtology from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Correction
A research firm will be hired by UF to gather data for research-ers to study racial inequity in Alachua County. The Alligator originally reported otherwise in an article published Nov. 11 under the headline “Local insti-tutions look to study racial ineq-uity in Alachua County.”
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  77° LOW  48°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 61
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandBy Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A graduate-assistants labor 
union stood outside with a sign 
labeled “UF Annual Salaries” in bold font as they advocated for lower fees. 
The sign read “Graduate assis-
tants minimum stipend: $13K,” “Fuchs (president): $860K.”  
Graduate Assistants United set up a table on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. to tell students 
about the additional fees gradu-
ate assistants have to pay UF. The union will be on the plaza at the same time for the rest of the week so graduate assistants can write what they cannot afford because 
of fees, which make up 10 to 20 
percent of their annual salaries. 
On Friday at 4 p.m., they will 
deliver the messages to UF Presi-dent Kent Fuchs’ house. 
The GAU members set up a 
cardboard alligator cutout with the phrase, “The Greedy Gator ate my…” and taped responses to it. 
“Flights home,” someone 
wrote. “Pay rent.” “Lunch mon-ey.” 
Constanza Rios, a 40-year-old 
graduate assistant, said she can’t afford to buy her 14-year-old daughter a new laptop because the fees she pays are too high. The holidays are a reminder that 
money is always tight, she said. 
“I think it’s very important to 
bring awareness of the economic 
hardship we are facing this time of the year,” she said. “We’re to-tally broke.” 
Fuchs has said many positive 
things to the union, but he hasn’t made a lot of change, said Sebas-
tian Sclofsky, the organizing chair 
for GAU. So the organization plans to force him to act by con-fronting him with the messages.
“Fees is something that affects 
us deeply,” he said. “It’s a huge burden for GAs, especially the ones at the lower pay scale.” 
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes 
wrote in an email Tuesday that UF is aware of the union’s con-cern for lower fees. Previous ne-gotiations have helped offset their fees, she said. 
“Any continued progress on 
this issue will be balanced with other needs in terms of Grad As-sistant pay,” she said. 
Although Sclofsky believes the 
administrators are paid fairly, he said the salaries of graduate assis-tants don’t come close to reﬂ  ect-ing the amount of work they put 
in.
The 39-year-old graduate as-
sistant said if UF wants to be a 
top-10 public university, the ad-ministration should give graduate assistants fee cuts like universi-ties that are currently ranked at that level.  
In January, graduate assistants 
will be able to negotiate their con-tracts, which can only happen ev-ery three years. The union plans to argue for lower fees, starting with the protest. 
“We always have hope that the 
university will take a bolder step to relieve the fees,” he said.
GAU has been able to bargain 
with the university for fee-relief measures in the past, which Sclof-sky said shows the university rec-ognizes the issue.
“I’m hopeful that President 
Fuchs will take a step forward and help us ﬁ  nd a solution to this problem,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Elena Rubino, a 26-year-old doctoral candidate, posts a graduate student’s complaint about what she 
had to give up in order to pay her graduate school fees on an alligator-shaped board on the Plaza of the Americas as part of the Graduate Assistants United’s Chomp Out Fees campaign. Rubino, who studies in the UF School of Natural Resources and Environment as well as in the UF Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, said she can’t go home to New Jersey for Thanksgiving because she is tight for money.
 GAU gears up for weeklong protest over graduate student fees
They plan on delivering messages to UF President Fuchs on Friday4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Standing at all four corners of 
a Gainesville intersection Tuesday, 
about 150 protesters elicited honks and hollers of approval and disdain as they opposed the Dakota Access and Sabal Trail pipelines.
The Sabal Trail pipeline, which 
received its final permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in August, will run throughout Ala-bama, Georgia and Florida, carrying natural gas. The proposed Dakota Access pipeline would carry crude oil from North Dakota to Illinois. 
At the intersection of Northwest 
43rd Street and Northwest 16th Boulevard, protesters waved signs reading “oil spills = painful death” and chanting “can’t drink oil, keep it in the soil.”
After standing there for nearly 
two hours, the group marched half a mile to the local U.S. Army Corps of Engineers office on Northwest 41st Street, only to find it closed. Merrillee Malwitz-Jipson, an orga-nizer of the protest, said she had called before, confirming the of-fice would be open today and to let them know protestors were coming with questions.
The office told her they would be prepared, she said. But when the protesters reached it, they found it closed, with only a sign redirecting those with questions about either 
pipeline to call a number. 
“It was kind of a let down, be-
cause we were told that we were 
going to have our questions an-swered by a representative of Army 
Corp of Engineers,” she said.
Malwitz-Jipson, a campaign or-
ganizer with the Sierra Club, said 
although President Barack Obama and the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-neers delayed the approval of the Dakota Access pipeline this week, she thinks President-elect Donald Trump will move forward with both pipelines and plans for extracting 
more fossil fuels.
This will have a negative effect 
on the environment and contami-
nate water, she said.
Christina Layton, who lives in 
Putnam County, drove more than 
40 minutes to protest with her 
mother and two sons, because she worries about the possible contami-nation of water near the pipelines.
Her son, Liam, 7, sat on his 
grandmother’s lap while chanting “Water is life.”
“Nothing will grow without wa-
ter, and nothing will win without 
water,” he said.GNV residents march 
against pipelines Grace King / Alligator Staff 
A Santa Fe College medical information coding and billing junior 
holds a sign to voice her opinion on the Sabal Trail pipeline. The 26-year-old was one of about 200 protesters who campaigned against the pipeline’s construction on Tuesday afternoon.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A former employee of 101 
Cantina was arrested Monday after reportedly stealing more than $5,000 from the Midtown venue, Gainesville Police said.
At about 5 a.m. Friday, Jarrid 
Antonio Berni-er, 25, walked into the restau-
rant and tequi-la bar at 1632 W. University Ave. and dis-abled its securi-ty cameras, but not before the cameras spotted 
him stealing cash from its safe, 
according to the report.
In total, Bernier made away 
with $5,200, according to the re-
port. The money was later found 
in Bernier’s girlfriend’s apart-ment.
The manager of Cantina 
watched the security video with 
a GPD officer and identified Ber-nier, according to the report. 
He had been at 101 Cantina 
the night before wearing the same clothes as in the video, ac-cording to the report.
He was hired about seven 
months ago, and fired before the incident, according to the report.
Police arrested Bernier on 
charges of burglary of an unoc-
cupied structure and grand theft 
between $5,000 and $10,000. Authorities took him to the Ala-chua County Jail, where he was 
later released on his own recog-
nizance Tuesday.
Bernier, who had no previous 
charges according to the Alachua 
County Court records, declined 
to comment. He was issued a 
standing no contact order by the Clerk of the Court on Tuesday.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgGPD: Former Cantina employee steals $5,200
moments of his baseball career, harkening back to a home run he hit as a 9-year-old facing a red-headed pitcher named Tim in Co-
conut Grove, his several World 
Series wins and his other feats.
After his career ended, Rodri-
guez started working as a base-
ball analyst for Fox Sports and a 
special adviser to the Yankees, 
tasked with mentoring and scout-
ing young prospects.
Having never graduated from 
college, Rodriguez has since tak-en business classes at the Univer-sity of Miami and will take them at Stanford University in January.
In the crowd, 22-year-old 
Danny Manziel remembered his first baseball glove, an Alex Ro-driguez model. He was no more than 12 years old.
The University of California, 
Los Angeles, student modeled his entire game after Rodriguez, and he said it was refreshing to see him in person.
“He’s manning up to his mis-
takes, and he’s setting a good example for the youth,” Manziel said.Up front in the VIP section, UF 
graduate student Alexis Farinacci remembered her family telling 
her how she was brought home 
from the hospital after her birth wearing a Yankees jersey. When she heard Rodriguez was com-ing to UF, she said she was un-derstandably excited, having fol-lowed his former team for most of her life.
She echoed Manziel’s senti-
ment that after all Rodriguez has gone through, seeing him now is inspiring.
“It is a story of redemption,” 
the 24-year-old said.
ACCENT,  from pg. 1He discussed baseball career, mistakes
encourage Menaged and other law 
students to continue their fight for justice. 
“As important as it is to be the 
first, it’s more important to be the 
next,” Smith said. 
He likened work as a lawyer 
to contributing to a retirement ac-
count: The earlier you start and the more you invest, the greater the reward at the end of your ca-reer. 
Although he is not a UF alum-
nus, he was proud to recognize the school and Menaged, know-ing UF graduates will be able to 
greatly impact their communities 
in their lifetimes. 
Smith told the crowd to build a 
better America where hatred and misunderstanding no longer exist. 
Fighting to build a better na-
tion will ensure the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting are prop-
erly honored, he said. 
“They did not die alone, they 
did not die in vain,” Smith said. 
“We will not forget them. Our pulse is stronger than ever.”UNITY,  from pg. 1‘Our pulse 
is stronger 
than ever’
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Benjamin “Benny” Menaged, a 25-year-old third year UF law 
student, holds a framed verse from Deuteronomy, a book in the Bible, that reads “Justice, justice shall you pursue. ”
Bernier
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Emma Green 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Local burger joint BurgerQuE is 
taking a break to rebuild its staff.
BurgerQuE, located at 1220 
W. University Ave., closed its 
doors Oct. 26 due to management concerns, said Tim Mankin, the owner of the restaurant. Mankin 
said he felt the staff was not as ef-
ﬁ  cient as his employees at the two 
locations in Fort Myers because of 
a rushed start. The restaurant will 
open again in January, he said. 
“This location’s going to be 
kind of like bringing my ﬁ  rst one out,” he said. “It takes time for things to develop.”
Mankin said he believes the 
store, which debuted in Novem-ber 2015, will continue to thrive as development along University Avenue grows. 
For Martha Wilson, 19, a loyal 
BurgerQuE customer-turned-em-ployee, eating at the restaurant is an easy choice. 
“If I was leaving the house look-
ing for food, I would know where I was going,” the Gainesville resi-dent said. 
When Wilson ﬁ  rst walked into 
BurgerQuE, she said the experi-ence was heavenly. The smell and look of the burger restaurant drew 
her in. 
“I’ve never actually seen any-
thing like it,” she said. “Regard-
less of ever working there… I would be this excited about it.”
Wilson said she has faith 
Mankin will make the restaurant successful, despite increased com-petition along University Avenue. 
“He’s going to make it work,” 
Wilson said conﬁ  dently. “Some-thing about him makes you know he’s going to ﬁ  gure it out. It’ll be nothing but up from here.” BurgerQuE temporarily closes 
The burger joint will reopen in January
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
Karma Cream will get a new 
home next semester. 
The close-to-campus shop, 
which serves organic coffee, veg-an ice cream and sandwiches, will be moving in January down West University Avenue to a larger 
space next to Reggae Shack, said 
Alaina Walton, 23, a three-year employee of Karma Cream. 
The new location, at 607 W. 
University Ave. where Swift Cycle 
used to be, will offer customers 
additional seating and parking, said Emily Schwartz, a co-owner of Karma Cream. There might also be new drinks on the menu. 
“We might be adding a few 
taps of local brews, kombucha and a few more additions to the menu,” Schwartz said.
Since opening in 2009, Karma 
Cream has been at 1025 W. Uni-versity Ave., serving as a study spot for many students. Walton said customers request different baked goods, but because of the 
lack of space, they have not been 
able to make as many treats as she wishes.
But while the new location may offer an expanded menu and space, Christine Samuel, a 20-year-old UF dietetics junior, said it won’t be as convenient 
to walk to from her apartment, 
which is behind the current loca-tion of the shop.
While enjoying an almond-
and-butter-pecan-ﬂ  avored ice cream, topped with cookie dough and whipped cream, she said the new spot will be a farther walk for her and others. 
“It’s kind of annoying because 
it’s a 30-second walk here, so I probably won’t go everyday any-more,” Samuel said. 
 Karma Cream to move near Reggae ShackBy Romy Ellenbogen 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
From her Newberry home, UF 
mathematics junior Analiese Wag-
ner has watched Gainesville grow for the past 20 years.
She has reaped the beneﬁ  ts of 
some of the developments — a nearby Publix and a new McDon-ald’s. Although Wagner enjoys see-ing the city grow, she has concerns about it.  
“I think development is positive 
as long as it’s done in a way that is conscious of what is already there,” Wagner said. 
On Thursday, UF announced 
the details of its Strategic Develop-ment Plan, a project between the university and area stakeholders, organized by a third-party ﬁ  rm. The plan came out of UF’s desire to be a top-10 public university.
To achieve this goal, UF is look-
ing to renovate the area surround-
ing campus, said UF Senior Vice 
President Charlie Lane.
“It’s something I think we’ve 
needed to do for a very, very long time, and I think this university is really going to beneﬁ  t from it, if we’re able to implement it in the way we think we need to,” he said.
The new development will fo-
cus on making Gainesville a “New American City” that is walkable, pe-destrian-friendly and easy to navi-
gate, Lane said. Part of this includes 
improving bicycle safety. Abigail Dougherty, a UF student, was re-cently killed in a bicycle accident across from campus.
Gedaliah Dreyfuss, a UF geog-
raphy sophomore, pushes for cy-clist safety in Gainesville. Although there are bike lanes on side roads, main roads are not safe for cyclists, 
the 20-year-old said. 
“These are dangerous roads to 
be on,” Dreyfuss said. “Not just be-
cause of the speeds of the vehicles, but because there is no bicycle in-frastructure there.”
Another goal of the development 
plan is to increase UF student hous-ing near campus, Lane said.
The Standard, a new luxury stu-
dent-housing project at the intersec-tion of West University Avenue and Southwest 13th Street, is expected to open by Fall 2017. 
UF also recently bought Leon-
ardo’s By The Slice’s building for an undetermined purpose.
Nestled in a booth at Leo’s, Nique 
Etienne, 28, watched the construc-tion of The Standard. Although she said she hopes more students living near campus will help with trafﬁ  c congestion, she worries the building sticks out among the streets’ mom-and-pop shops.
“The building itself I feel like 
sort of goes against Gainesville’s 
general development that’s always 
been historic,” Etienne said. 
Noah Hinrichsen, a UF music 
junior who is also working toward his master’s degree in entrepre-neurship, said although he likes seeing new businesses come to Gainesville, the city needs to keep its individuality.
“Gainesville needs to, in my 
opinion, I guess keep its identity while growing,” the 20-year-old said. “I think there’s enough — hopefully there’s enough — opposi-tion so that the growth is balanced.”    UF announces details for 
development near campusCHANGES COMING TO WEST UNIVERSITY AVENUEThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Philosophical 
musings on 
‘Dr. Strange’
Be warned, dear reader. This editorial contains many 
spoilers for Marvel’s latest movie, “Dr. Strange.”
There were a lot of ﬂ  aws in the cinematic take on “Dr. 
Strange.” The plot felt rushed, character development felt ignored and dialogue was juvenilely typical of Marvel 
movies. What redeemed “Dr. Strange” was not only its stunning visual effects (those among us who have ever experimented with psychedelics were plunged back down that familiar and beautiful rabbit hole), but also its polite nod to existential philosophy.
We’re grossly paraphrasing the plot of “Dr. Strange” here, but 
at the end of the movie, our hero, Dr. Stephen Strange, saves humanity from Dormammu, a villain who represents entropy. To defeat Dormammu, Dr. Strange must negotiate for the fate of humanity in the face of Dormammu’s seemingly inevitable de-
struction. Strange loops time inﬁ  nitely, trapping Dormammu and 
himself in the same moment of negotiation eternally. Agitated, Dormammu agrees to leave Earth alone.
Keep this in mind as we proceed. In his essay, “The Myth of 
Sisyphus,” French-Algerian philosopher Albert Camus asks the reader to contemplate the punishment of the mythical and tragic Greek character Sisyphus. After Sisyphus vocalizes how he be-lieves he is more cunning than the gods, the gods punish him to an eternity of rolling a large rock up a mountain. Upon complet-
ing this task, the rock would magically fall back down the moun-
tain, forcing Sisyphus to retrieve it and roll it back up. Like Dr. Strange, he is condemned to repeat this fate eternally.
Camus recognized that, like Sisyphus and Dr. Strange, hu-
manity is inherently cut off from its ultimate purpose. We have several options going forward in our absurd lives. Theologically based philosophers like Søren Kierkegaard saw this absurdity as part of God’s “larger plan.” Camus replied this was merely a dis-traction from the world we actually live in. Camus then proposes 
that suicide may be an answer. His logic is that the only way to 
win the game is not to play it. This, he posits, is a logical leap. Suicide is, in fact, losing the game you choose not to play. This simply negates the problem rather than solve it.
The answer, to Camus, lies in total and complete submission 
to our absurd fate. We must consciously and wholeheartedly ac-cept the notion of meaningless life. Rather than generating hope that leads to unrealistic yet fantastical dreams of other worlds and realities, we must protest our absurd lives by creating our 
own meaning. We could generate art that highlights our human 
condition or engage in scientiﬁ  c enterprises that make our lives less burdensome and bring us closer to truth.
Camus proposes we re-imagine Sisyphus (as we propose you 
re-imagine Dr. Strange) in light of this new discovery. Rather than see Sisyphus as punished by rolling that rock up the mountain eternally, Camus wants us to see Sisyphus as happy. Sisyphus doesn’t see his fate as meaningless; he creates meaning that reb-els against his absurd punishment. Dr. Strange is a brilliant man. 
He became a doctor to save lives. When that car accident left him 
unable to practice, he could have given up. Instead, he chose to embrace the absurd challenge of learning the mystic arts so he could protect humanity. In order to do so, Dr. Strange sacriﬁ  ced himself into an inﬁ  nite time loop of being killed by Dormammu until Dormammu changed his mind about destroying Earth. Dr. Strange subjected himself to a fate far worse than rolling a rock up a mountain and became an absurdist hero far greater than Sisyphus.How pornography aﬀ  ects our perceptions of sex
The summer after sixth grade I was 12 years old, and I was attending camp on week-days while my parents were at work. This was the ﬁ  rst time in my life I noticed the sexual features of the female body. Every 
day I would go to the pool, and I’d see girls wear-ing skimpy bikinis, outlining their breasts and showing off large patches of skin on their stom-achs, legs and backs. It was during this summer that I French-kissed a girl for the ﬁ  rst time. She was one year older than me, she had curly blond hair and her cheeks were peppered with acne. We made out by the vending machines at a bowling alley the camp took us to.
Then, some of the older kids at camp started talking to 
me about it. They called her sexy and asked me when I was going to get to second base, get a blow job or have sex with her. Up until then, I hadn’t thought much about sex, but every day these older boys would talk to me at length about which girls at camp they wanted to screw. They told me about websites they would watch porn on.
Kissing her on the weekdays gave me new and exciting 
feelings. One Saturday, my parents left me at home alone 
while they went out to dinner. I took my dad’s laptop into 
the bathroom and locked the door. I went to one of the web-sites the older boys at camp mentioned and watched my ﬁ  rst-ever pornographic video.
Since then, my relationship with porn has had its ups 
and downs. I went through a phase of watching porn nightly throughout my high-school years. It wasn’t until I got to col-lege that I considered why I watched porn so frequently and how it affected my perception of real-life sex.
Many would argue porn is a necessary evil, one that 
allows a person to blow off steam without trying to have sex with a bunch of strangers in real life. Some say it helps them relax — some say it helps inspire their sex life. I have no qualms with people watching porn; that is a person-al choice. As I have grown up and given the topic more thought, though, I realize that there is a lot about porn cul-ture that is pretty gross.From observing popular porn on free stream-
ing websites like PornHub, I have made observa-tions about what viewers crave when watching porn. There is a debasement of the female body in many of these videos. Mainstream porn features 
unrealistic portrayals of intercourse. Women in 
these videos achieve orgasm by repetitive pen-etration. They are treated and perceived as sexual objects the men in these videos verbally harass, throw around and treat like toys rather than hu-man beings.
The female body is idealistically portrayed in 
popular porn through exaggerated moans, bulbous breasts, ﬂ  at stomachs and blemish-free skin. Porn gives young peo-
ple with a budding sense of sexuality the chance to be ex-
posed to intense sexual imagery before they have the chance to have real sexual experiences. This gives them unrealistic ideas of how sex works.
I was lucky enough to enhance my pornographic learn-
ing with real-life sexual experience, and I noticed the differ-ences. Not everyone is down to have anal sex with someone they hardly know. Kissing is often a crucial part of sexual encounters that is completely overlooked by mainstream 
porn.
Not all porn is completely unrealistic and vulgar. There 
is an entire category of porn deemed “female friendly” by 
streaming sites. These include kissing and sensual music. But we are left to wonder why this realistic pornography — which still isn’t realistic — is called female friendly. Is it because popular porn is mass-marketed to men to appeal to their pleasure, so they can see the female body as something to masturbate to rather than share an experience with?
Of course, porn has been around forever, and it isn’t go-
ing anywhere. But in the same way a Michael Bay movie is loaded with ﬂ  ashy imagery and is obviously not how real life works, we must keep in mind that porn, although an easy way to relieve sexual urges, is not how sex actually works. 
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His column appears 
on Wednesdays.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Jeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Since the election, we have seen 
some mixed responses to the re-sults. From protest to social con-
frontation, the U.S. has been facing 
an important transitional stage. As 
a Latina, I have had the opportunity to ex-perience both sides of the coin these days, 
from friends approaching me to offer their 
support and tell me they will always have my back to acquaintances stereotyping me and joking about my immigration status.
As I have shared in previous columns, I 
am a big believer in respect, equality and community. Therefore, this entire situa-tion has made me wonder: Will this politi-cal change be just an excuse to forget our 
social responsibilities, morality and ethics? 
I believe this won’t happen because we live in a community ﬁ  lled with academics and an environment rich in cultural differ-ences.
Take this opportunity to 
show your discipline and your 
true values. If you feel any type 
of social pressure to compro-mise your morality, do not do so. Also, if you are on the other 
side of the spectrum and feel 
someone is making you uncom-fortable, don’t be scared to be honest and respectful and ap-peal to their senses. We are all humans, 
and at the core of our existence we share 
the same feeling of compassion. It doesn’t matter who or what inﬂ  uences us; at the end of the day, we all have emotions. Do 
not let this situation escalate to a bigger 
drama. It is irrelevant, unnecessary and wasteful.
Regardless of whether you approve of the election results, you must always remember we are all part of something bigger, and 
the only way to achieve success 
is by contributing. If we waste time ﬁ  ghting each other, point-ing ﬁ  ngers and making others 
uncomfortable, dialogue and 
negotiation will be impossible. We need to preserve peace and respect in order to preserve 
the democratic process in this nation. It 
doesn’t matter who is the president, sena-
tor or governor; the power resides with the people and the community. The U.S. has a real and honest democratic system and will 
assure justice and equality is a priority, un-
like some other countries, such as mine, where the democratic system is hindered by the greed, economic manipulation and the lack of education.
Preserve the respect toward your broth-
ers and sisters who are part of this com-
munity. Do not judge anybody, either, re-
gardless of whether they agree with your ideas, beliefs and feelings. As long as hate is not the primary motivation for their ac-
tions, you do not have any right to inﬂ  u-
ence and interfere with anybody’s personal decisions.
Promote love and peace, and make sure 
you take care of one another. Respect the 
differences around you. Remember, the 
shades in a spectrum must all come to-gether to create a rainbow. We are differ-ent because nature is based on constant 
recombination and change. Appreciate the 
beauty of it.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology 
senior. Her column appears on Wednesdays. 
Regardless of the presidential election's outcome, respect is universalColumn
Andrea T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
The “Unleash your Creativity Through 
Technology” tour brought a multitude of women from diverse ﬁ  elds of study to discuss their issues with current gender inequity and how to progress 
toward higher education for women.
On Tuesday evening, stiletto-clad women 
of Atlanta gathered at the Historic Academy of Medicine at the Georgia Institute of Tech-nology for the tour, hosted by the companies Rebecca Minkoff and Intel. The partnership aims to give female students the opportuni-ty to explore career opportunities available with science, technology, engineering and math degrees and give them the opportunity to network.
Minkoff is currently one of the industrial 
leaders in high-end, wearable technology with handbags and wallets equipped with phone-charging gadgets, bracelets that link to smartphone notiﬁ  cations and other tech accessories integrated into jewelry items. Forecasted to be worth $34 billion by the year 2020, the wearable-technology mar-ket is trending in luxury fashion, especially among millennials.
Behind an open microphone, young wom-en lined up to speak to a panel of thought-leaders, entrepreneurs and activators, including Forbes “30 Under 30” media mogul Tif-fany Pham, President of the Intel Foundation Rosalind Hudnell and fashion designer Rebecca Minkoff.
What began as a simple Q&A 
session on the second stop of the “Unleash Creativity” college tour quickly turned into an expert-ad-vice session. Female students across a di-verse range of majors and colleges in Atlanta shared their personal struggles in achieving their career goals. From female students fac-ing gender inequity in research labs to being told they can’t balance a career with a fam-ily, women across all disciplines expressed their experiences with discrimination or in-equality.
On confronting those who do not sup-
port equality, Minkoff said “(You have to) strengthen the conversation. Don’t delete men from the conversation. They have to learn to recast the system. They have to start to understand what it’s like.”
With the evening’s theme of #StayWithIt, which encourages women to con-tinue to work in STEM ﬁ  elds, pan-elists discussed the importance of ﬁ  nding mentors, working at pas-sions and being unafraid to fail.
The panelists’ advice comes at 
a crucial time for female develop-ment in college and higher educa-tion in the STEM ﬁ  elds.
According to the National Sci-
ence Foundation, “Rates of sci-
ence and engineering course taking for girls/women shift at the undergraduate level and gender disparities begin to emerge, especial-ly for minority women.”
The foundation concluded that once girls 
succumb to social pressures such as gender discrimination in college, many drop their pursuits of STEM degrees.
Trisha Roy, the CEO and founder of Barn 
and Willow, a company that manufactures custom drapery and Roman shades, stressed the importance of going after your own op-portunities.
“Half the battle is showing up,” she said. 
“The fact that you showed up here makes you 50 percent better than the people outside this door.”
Allowing college women to identify with 
and be inspired by an inﬂ  uential, powerful and diverse set of women is the goal that the Minkoff and Intel partnership is working to-ward.
As the discussion came to a close, the at-
tendees were invited to take part in break-out discussion sessions with each panelist under topics ranging from “Promoting Your Personal Brand” to “Women in Corporate America.”
A millennial herself, Minkoff’s discussion 
about her brand’s strength through innova-tion and technology before her technology was mainstream made her message more authentic and inspiring to an audience of fu-ture industry professionals. With the range of gender issues, from equal pay to maternal leave, debated in today’s atmosphere, em-powering women to “stay with it” in STEM ﬁ  elds is a trend that will continue to increase with the expansion of education and equal-ity.
Jenna Cooper is a student at Emory Uni-
versity. A version of this column originally appeared in The Emory Wheel.
It's empowering to see fashion, technology coming together to support womenUWire
Jenna Cooper
UWire8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
Studen/t.end Livin/g.end Guid/e.end
Advertise in The Alligator’s Student Living Guide, which 
publishes on the same day as UF’s off-campus housing fair. Quarter page ads and larger will receive free map spotting!
Contac/t.end Your Sale/s.end Rep352-376-4482
Deadlin/e.end 11-14
Ru/n.end Dat/e.end 11-18
By Janine Wolf 
Alligator Contributing Writer
A human-rights activist will tell UF 
students today about her work helping 
survivors of the Nepal earthquakes that occurred last year.
Radha Paudel, the founder of Action 
Works Nepal, began the organization to help poor and vulnerable people in the country, and she will speak at Pugh Hall at 6 p.m. She will answer questions about humanitarian relief and human rights fol-lowing the deadly April 2015 earthquake 
that killed nearly 9,000 people and injured 
22,000. 
About 150 students and Gainesville 
residents are expected to attend the event, which is free and open to the public, said Edmund Kellerman, a master lecturer at the Dial Center for Written and Oral Com-munication and the event organizer. He contacted Paudel to speak because he wanted to let others know about the relief work going on in the country.
Kellerman’s relief organization, Project 
Nepal, and UF Heal the World, a volun-teer service organization, raised about $5,000 a year for three schools in Nepal, Kellerman said. Following the 7.8-magni-tude earthquake, the organizations were able to raise more money for disaster re-lief.“It was just devastating,” Kellerman 
said. “Whole villages were just ﬂ  attened.”
Nick Callaway, a UF marketing junior 
who is helping organize the event, said the talk will give students an idea of how hard living in Nepal is and has been since the earthquakes.
“After listening to Radha speak, stu-
dents will understand the struggle that Nepali citizens go through,” the 20-year-
old said. 
 Nepalese human-rights activist to speak at Pugh Hall today
Paudel
Paige Fry / Alligator Staff
A PRESIDENTIAL AWARD
UF President Kent Fuchs (center) stands with members of the 
LGBTQ+ Advisory Committee (from left) Greg Allen, Wolfgang Sigmund, Flo Turcotte and Eric Money. Fuchs was awarded a plaque by the committee for his efforts to commemorate the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando. This is the ﬁ  rst time a UF president has been awarded a plaque from the committee, said Sigmund, the chair of the committee. “This is special, ” Fuchs said. “It is beautiful. ”
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two UF students argued 
against the UF Supreme Court on 
the need to address how Student 
Government interprets federal and 
state constitutions. 
Sen. Ford Dwyer (Access, Law) 
and Ali Mirghahari, a UF third-
year law student, argued for more 
than an hour in support of two pe-
titions they started. The ﬁ  rst one 
asked if the court and other SG committees could reference feder-
al and state constitutions to make 
laws. The second petition asked if 
the court should be able to review 
the Student Senate Judiciary Com-mittee’s decisions when it inter-prets federal or state constitutions 
to deny laws. 
The court unanimously voted 
that it and other SG committees cannot use federal and state con-
stitutions as the main defense for decisions, stating the UF Student 
Body constitution comes ﬁ  rst. But 
they also voted that federal and state constitutions can be consid-
ered when making decisions.The court also ruled that the Ju-
diciary Committee has the author-ity to use federal and state consti-
tutions as grounds to approve and fail bills. The court cannot review 
the committee’s decisions. 
Chief Justice Chris Tribbey said 
that if students are not satisﬁ  ed 
with the committee’s decisions, 
they should vote the senators out 
of ofﬁ  ce. He said members of the 
Judiciary Committee have the 
authority to rule on constitutions other than the Student Body’s. 
“They’re held to that kind of 
standard based on the oath they take,” he said. 
The ﬁ  rst petition addressed a 
2006 court decision in which on-line voting was determined un-
constitutional because SG laws 
follow Florida’s statutes and Ad-ministrative Code. 
Mirghahari argued the ﬁ  rst pe-
tition, stating a 2012 court deci-sion should have overturned the 2006 decision. In 2012, the court 
stated its power comes from the 
Student Body constitution.
The court ruled the 2006 deci-
sion was correct and still applied. Justice Ashlyn Robinson said the 2006 decision referenced Florida 
laws, while the 2012 decision ref-
erenced the U.S. Constitution. 
In the ﬁ  rst petition, Dwyer and 
Mirghahari said if the court decid-ed federal and state constitutions can be used as primary defenses, then parts of the 700 election 
codes violate students’ rights.  But 
because federal and state constitu-
tions cannot be used as the main 
defense, the court did not discuss the 700 codes.
Dwyer and Mirghahari said 
the court avoided discussing the codes. 
“They have just set up a situ-
ation where we’ll have to ﬁ  le another petition,” Dwyer said. 
“We’ll bring the 700 issue back 
since they didn’t address it.” 
Dwyer said the court’s deci-
sions were contradictory and could lead to it choosing which laws apply to SG. 
“Obviously, I’m very disap-
pointed with the court’s decision tonight,” Dwyer said. 
knewberg@alligator.org 
@k_newberg  UF Supreme Court says federal 
constitution can apply to SGWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
all over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
all 
over the place
over the place
all 
all 
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
over the place
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish -
washer inside.High speed internet. $350 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
11-18-16-14-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
1/1 with W/D IN unit. 5-10 minutes to cam-
pus, on bus route. Corner unit with no one above you. Complex is gated at night and has a pool, gym, sauna, tanning bed, courts, and free printing. PETS ALLOWED! Cable and HBO included. $879/month. Contact Amanda 727-418-4337     11-18-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12 AutosWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 New England
NFLers
5 Workforce
10 __ salad
14 Cornell who
founded Cornell
15 Actress Tierney16 Passionate god17 Nerd’s moniker19 Unexciting20 Actress Gabor21 Blends22 Destination for
the last flight?
23 In the cellar25 Detective’s
moniker
27 Speak to
30 Michelle who was
the youngest
female to play in
a PGA Tour
event
31 Bubbles up32 Didn’t like leaving38 Ending for marion39 Traitor’s moniker
40 Gung-ho
41 Lawn-trimming
tool
43 Anti-inflammatory
brand
44 Sixth sense,
initially
45 Coming to a point47 Genius’ moniker52 Bonny one53 Captain Kirk’s
“final frontier”
54 Young zebras56 “Gross!”59 __ avail: fruitless60 Old-timer’s
moniker
62 Skunk cabbage
feature
63 More flimsy, as
an excuse
64 Ballet move65 Attention getter66 Krispy __67 Man, but not
woman
DOWN
1 First name in
skunks
2 Sea of __: Black
Sea arm3 Court calendar
entry
4 __ Diego
5 Silvery food fish
6 Airport waiter
7 Dealership lot
array
8 At risk of being
slapped
9 A long way
10 Rats11 Former New
York senator AlD’__
12 Word with book
or opera
13 “Clean Made
Easy” vacuumbrand
18 Pill amounts22 Like Death Valley24 Bodyguard,
typically
26 Lambs’ moms27 Not many28 Indulge, with “on”29 Sealed tight33 Summer cooler34 Bakery offering
35 Presents too
aggressively
36 Cave in37 Pigged out (on),
briefly
39 Taunting remark
42 Italian noble family43 Take __: decline
to participate
46 Enticement47 Prevent, in
legalese
48 Apple players49 Compact 48-
Down50 “My concern 
is ... ”
51 “You’ve got the
wrong person!”
55 Attention getter57 Cry out loud58 “Look ma, no
hands!”
60 March on
Washingtonmonogram
61 Prefix with gram
By Bruce Haight©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/16/1611/16/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, November 16, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. TELEVISION: The company of 
Dunder Mifflin was the location of 
which television comedy series?
2. GEOGRAPHY: In which U.S. 
state is Lake Shasta located?
3. MOVIES: What World War II 
miniseries’ title came from a phrase in Shakespeare’s “Henry V”?
4. INVENTIONS: What was the 
20th-century bathysphere used for?
5. MUSIC: What Beatles’ song con-
tains the lyric, “La la how the life goes on”?
6. BUSINESS: At what convenience 
store can you buy a Big Gulp?
7. FAMOUS QUOTATIONS: What 
19th-century Dutch painter once said, 
“I put my heart and my soul into my work, and have lost my mind in the process”?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
When did Apple release the first Mac-intosh computer?
9. U.S. STATES: What is the state of 
Alaska’s nickname?
10. SCIENCE: What is absolute zero 
in Celsius?
Answers
1. “The Office”2. California3. “Band of Brothers”
4. Undersea exploration
5. “Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da”6. 7-Eleven7. Vincent Van Gogh8. 19849. The Last Frontier10. –273 degrees C
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
November 14, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FTCall or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    11-30-16-16-14
Medical Assistant or Pre-Med student want-ed for temporary (Nov/Dec) , full time posi-tion with busy pediatric office. Please send resume to worthingtonpeds@yahoo.com or via fax 352-371-4865      11-16-16-5-14
Administrative Assistant needed at Millhopper Montessori School. Must be a self-starter & have the ability to work independently on proj-ects to completion, be comfortable working in an array of areas and environments and must be comfortable accepting new tasks at a moment’s notice. 9:00AM–5:00PM / one hour lunch. Requirements: CPR and First Aid Certification / Training or experience in related field, 4-Year Degree preferred, but not required. Contact Amilda Clark 352-375-
6773, or mmschool@millhopper.com    11-16-
16-5-14
NOW HIRING SERVERS
Apply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
STRIVE at GatorWell Grad student Lead Peer EducatorCampus violence prevention workAll identities welcomejobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 499420       11-18-16-
5-14
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Fire Your Boss Make job crushing income quickly and easily. http://instant10now.com/         11-22-16-5-20
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 
12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, Background 
Investigation Conducted Affirmative Action/ 
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information
call Misty @ the EDEP office 955-7766
11-18-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida AD inducted into Florida Sports Hall of Fame
Florida athletics director Jeremy Foley was inducted into the Florida Sports 
Hall of Fame on Tuesday night. Foley was inducted alongside four others, including former NFL coach Jon Gruden and former MLB player Johnny Da-mon.Are Nick Saban and Alabama 
ruining the fun of college football?Read the column on pg. 16.By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
T.J. McCoy didn’t have 
time to think before going in to 
play against South Carolina on 
Saturday.
After he saw backup center 
Tyler Jordan go down with an injury on Florida’s first offensive 
play, the redshirt freshman put on his helmet and trotted to the huddle for what would turn out to 
be the first extended playing time 
of his college football career.
He felt the butterflies but knew 
there was nothing he could do about it.
The third-string center was 
now the starter in the heart of Southeastern Conference play.
“I wasn’t really shocked,” 
McCoy said. 
“It was just like, ‘Wow, I’m 
about to play my first SEC game against a good opponent.’ It was kind of surreal.”
But McCoy — and the rest 
of Florida’s makeshift offensive line that has been hammered by 
injuries — didn’t let the moment 
get too big for him.
Even with three backups 
taking the majority of the snaps, 
Florida’s offensive line held its 
own during its 20-7 win against the Gamecocks, allowing Jordan Scarlett and Co. to rack up 171 rushing yards while only giving 
up one sack.
“He really saw it as an 
opportunity to show that he’s not 
a back-burner-type guy and that 
he’s dominant and that he knows 
his calls,” sophomore offensive lineman Fred Johnson said of 
McCoy.
And with starting center Cam 
Dillard out, starting left tackle 
David Sharpe likely out and Jordan a game-time decision, McCoy and the rest of the backups-turned-starters will have another opportunity against LSU on Saturday to show their 
performance wasn’t a fluke.
“Right now I just have a 
servant’s attitude,” McCoy said. 
“Whatever they need me to do, that’s what I’m going to do.”
McCoy grew up learning about Florida’s success from a person who experienced it firsthand.
His father, Tony McCoy, was 
a defensive lineman on Florida’s 
1991 team — the first Gators team 
to officially win an SEC title — and was on the sidelines during the game Saturday.
McCoy said his dad, who is 
recovering from a battle with leukemia, would always tell him about the atmosphere and the energy of playing in The Swamp.
“He didn’t do it justice,” 
McCoy said. 
“It was awesome scoring 
touchdowns and just being with my teammates and getting a good 
win.”
But it wasn’t just McCoy who 
stepped up on the offensive line.
Redshirt sophomore Kavaris 
Harkless saw extended playing time on Saturday after Sharpe 
injured his ankle in the first 
quarter. 
The 6-foot-5, 310-pound 
lineman moved inside and played 
left guard while usual guard Martez Ivey slipped outside to 
take over for Sharpe.
And with Jordan having to 
start the game at center in place of 
Dillard, Johnson moved back into 
Melissa Smith / Alligator Staff
T.J. McCoy prepares to snap the ball during Florida's win over South Carolina on Saturday. A native of the Orlando area, McCoy played for 
North Carolina State before transferring to Florida. 
He transferred to UF from NC State
Tabor says Gators aren’t ‘scared’ of LSU despite injuries
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The Florida-LSU matchup 
didn’t need any extra hype.
But don’t tell that to Arden 
Key.
Speaking to local reporters on Monday, the Tigers’ star 
defensive end added fuel to a rivalry that had been hovering over both programs' heads ever 
since the original game was 
postponed in October due to Hurricane Matthew.
“I know they’re scared to come up here because they don’t have all their stars or what not,” Key told NOLA.com. “So, we feel comfortable.”
Florida will be without at 
least seven starters when it faces LSU this Saturday, including its starting quarterback, Luke Del Rio, and both of its veteran linebackers, Jarrad Davis and Alex Anzalone.
UF players are well aware of 
Key’s comments. On Tuesday, offensive lineman Fred Johnson said some of his teammates were talking about Key’s words in the locker room, and somebody even showed him a video of the LSU defensive lineman speaking to 
reporters.
“I looked at it and I was like, 
‘OK.’ They were just talking,” Third-string center proves his worth vs. South Carolina
SEE LSU,  PAGE 14SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 1414   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Be a part of something big 
and give blood today. For more information, call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
the starting lineup and played at right guard.
With pieces rotating and experience on the 
offensive line a concern, quarterback Austin 
Appleby huddled the group together.
“Come on. We’re good,” Johnson remembered 
Appleby telling them. “We’re ﬁ  ne. It’s time to go.”
Appleby didn’t skip a beat. He practiced with them through most of 
training camp as the No. 2 quarterback.
“Those were my dudes,” Appleby said. “I’m 
actually more comfortable with them.”
It showed.Appleby looked poised in the pocket and had 
ample time to throw the ball. He ﬁ  nished the game 
with 201 passing yards and a pair of touchdowns on 17-of-21 passing.
“We’ve got so much talent on this team that it 
doesn’t matter who’s out there,” Appleby said. “If we play to our standard, we’ll be successful.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg13Appleby has 
practiced with 
backup linemen
Johnson said. “It doesn’t affect me.”
Junior cornerback Jalen Tabor had a 
different response.
“I don’t think we’re scared. It says something 
about somebody who is going in someone else’s 
neighborhood when you’re supposed to come to our neighborhood and ﬁ  ght,” Tabor said. “I 
don’t see how that is scared at all.” 
Johnson said that this Saturday’s game 
will feel different than past ones against LSU, 
and that Key’s comments heightened the two teams' rivalry even further.
“There is deﬁ  nitely a sense of rivalry, and 
it’s a strong one,” Johnson said.
But most UF players were reserved about 
LSU on Tuesday, reinforcing that Key’s words didn’t bother them.
“We’re not worried about what anybody 
says or anything like that,” redshirt freshman center T.J. McCoy said. “So I’m glad that (Key) got to say what he had to say, but when we 
play football, we’ll see what happens.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org LSU,  from pg13Johnson: 'There is deinitely a sense 
of rivalry, and it's a strong one.'
Emma Green  / Alligator Staff
T.J. McCoy lines up and prepares to snap the ball against South Carolina on Saturday. McCoy is expected to start against LSU. 
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Offensive lineman Fred Johnson, left, speaks with Florida coach Jim McElwain 
following UF's win over South Carolina on Saturday.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With about eight minutes left 
in the first half of Florida’s 76-54 
win over Mercer on Sunday night, 
UF forward Devin Robinson was 
fouled by Bears forward Stephon Jelks after Robinson snagged an offensive rebound, sending the 
6-foot-8 junior to the free-throw 
line for two shots. 
He approached the foul line 
with confidence. Robinson took a few dribbles, spun the ball in 
his hands and buried both shots, 
sparking an unprecedented streak at the line for Florida.
After two early misses by guard 
Kasey Hill, the Gators, who shot just 64.7 percent from the line last season, made 10-straight free throws to close out the first half. For the game, Florida connected 
on 24 of its 30 attempts.
“You can see in their body lan-
guage they’re a little more confi-
dent at the foul line,” UF coach 
Mike White said Tuesday. “It’s a 
big factor for us. It kept us out of the NCAA Tournament last year.”
After being bounced from the 
National Invitation Tournament 
at the end of last season, the 
Gators dedicated much of the off-season to addressing their prob-lems from the line — both mental 
and physical.
At the end of each practice, a select group of players are sent 
to the line to shoot pressure free throws. If they miss, the whole 
team is forced to run.
White also said changes were 
made in some of the players’ 
shooting forms, including Hill, 
who shot 53.8 percent from the 
line last season. Two games into the season, the athletic 6-foot-1 senior has made seven of his 10 attempts.
To address the mental side of 
the game, White enlisted the help of a sports psychologist to help the Gators get out of their shoot-
ing funk. 
“It’s put them in a pretty good 
place,” White said. “You hope 
that, moving forward we can con-tinue to be in the same mindset. 
… I don’t want to sit here and say 
I think we’re a great free-throw shooting team, but what we’ve seen out of the first two games is 
actually what we’ve been in prac-
tice.”
As for the rest of the offense, 
things are slowly coming togeth-er.
Florida put up 80 points in 
its season-opener against Florida Gulf Coast on Friday night in a game that featured double-digit 
scoring from Robinson (14), Hill 
(11), guard Canyon Barry (13) and center John Egbunu (13).
In Sunday’s contest, every sin-
gle UF player scored, including a UF career-high 17 points from for-ward Justin Leon, who went 3-of-5 from beyond the arc and 6-of-10 
from the field. 
“Our offense, we haven’t really 
been taking any bad shots,” the 
6-foot-8 senior said. “It’s just, stay 
confident and keep shooting.”
Leon added that the team’s 
improvement from the free-throw 
line has taken significant pressure off the offense.
“The stuff we’ve been doing is 
working,” he said. “We can kind of show that we’ve been taking time out and putting effort in the 
gym.”
Although Florida’s scoring has 
improved slightly, shooting effi-
ciency has been an issue early on. 
So far this season, the Gators 
are shooting just 40.7 percent from the field and have made just 12 of 40 three-point attempts. 
And KeVaughn Allen lies at 
the center of Florida’s shooting woes. The sophomore guard has struggled to put the ball in the basket so far this season, shoot-ing 25 percent from the field and 
18.2 percent from three. 
But coach White’s message to 
Allen?
Just keep shooting.“I’m not sure he’s been as ag-
gressive as we want him to be,” 
White said. “He’s so unselfish that when he’s not in a great of-fensive rhythm, you know, he’s liable to pass shots up.”
Allen will have a chance to get 
out of his shooting slump when the Gators square off against St. Bonaventure on Thursday night in Lakeland.
“I always think when he’s 
shooting it, the next one’s going in, whether he’s missed his last one or last four or five,” White said. “We all know how electric he can be when he gets himself 
going.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgGators’ offseason work paying off at free-throw line
UF enlisted help of sports psychologist
The Associated Press
KeVaughn Allen (5) attempts a shot during UF’s 80-59 win over FGCU 
on Friday. Allen has shot just 25 percent from the field this season.
The Associated Press
Devin Robinson (1) is defended by an FGCU player during the Gators’ win over the Eagles on Friday. Robinson has played a part in UF’s improved free-throw shooting.
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
If you ask the average college 
football fan why the sport trumps all others, he or she might point to this past week-end as proof. 
Three of the nation’s top-four 
teams were upset, with two of the upsets coming against un-ranked teams. 
It’s that randomness — that 
ability for any  team to win any given game — that makes college football special. That, along with 
the disproportionate disparity be-tween teams compared to other 
leagues. 
After all, if the Browns beat 
the Cowboys, that’s an upset, sure. But since both teams have similar resources and the ability to draft the same players, it’s not Earth-shattering. 
Meanwhile, when Appala-
chian State beat No. 6 Michigan in 2007 or when Georgia Southern beat Florida in 2013, small earth-quakes undoubtedly ensued on 
those respective campuses. It’s just a better story when a bunch 
of two-star recruits take down a team of five-stars. Sports fans ap-preciate that kind of drama. 
But what happens when one 
team manages to be so far ahead of the others that it shifts that dis-parity, changing the college foot-ball dynamic from “elite” pro-grams against “regular” ones to one super-elite program against everyone else?
Well, Alabama happens. And 
it’s made the game less fun. 
Actually, I’m sorry. Alabama is happening. 
Just yesterday, the Crimson 
Tide hauled in a commitment 
from four-star offensive tackle re-
cruit Jedrick Wills to regain their spot atop the national recruiting rankings. The last time the Tide 
didn’t finish with the No. 1 class 
was in 2010. 
And it shows on the field. Up 
and down Alabama’s depth chart 
you’ll find nothing but five- and 
four-star players. Which makes 
sense given that Alabama coach 
Nick Saban can basically promise potential recruits a national title. Every class he’s ever brought to 
Tuscaloosa has won at least one. 
There are many other metrics 
that could put the Tide’s domi-
nance into perspective, but I’ll only use one. Alabama hasn’t lost to an unranked team since 2007. 
Think about that for a second. Most college football teams — 
even elite ones — lose to under-dogs. It’s what makes the game fun, and again, it’s why No. 3 Clemson losing to unranked Pittsburgh and No. 2 Michigan losing to unranked Iowa on Sat-urday had fans storming the field in Iowa City and staying in their seats in Death Valley. 
But against Alabama, that fun 
no longer exists. Even though the Tide aren’t infallible, going un-defeated only once under Saban, they only lose to the toppest of top-tier teams. Thanks to Saban’s recruiting efforts, there’s just no chance for anyone outside the top-10. 
And yes, that does create a 
scenario where every team tar-gets ‘Bama. Just look at ESPN’s College Gameday for evidence. Seemingly every week someone 
in the show’s audience brings 
out a sign reading “(Insert school 
name here) wants Bama!”
Yet even the good teams rare-
ly contend. They might not be 
infallible, but the Crimson Tide 
regularly massacre the best com-
petition in the Southeastern Con-ference. 
Watching them is like hoping 
against hope you’ll get the pres-
ent you wanted for Christmas 
only to find s--- in your stock-ing. Even if sometimes you get the present, there’s only so many 
times you’ll stick your hand in 
s--- before you just stop trying 
and walk away. 
And I don’t want to put any 
blame on Nick Saban for making the game boring. He can’t help being the best at his job. 
Nevertheless, the sport will be 
better for everyone outside Tus-caloosa with him gone. 
Ethan Bauer is the assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at ebauer@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @ebaueri. 
Tired of seeing Alabama dominate college football? You’re not alone 
The Associated Press
Alabama head coach Nick Saban tries to get the referee’s attention in the second half against LSU on Nov. 5. Every class Saban has recruited at Alabama has won at least one national title.
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri