We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 34 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
Jordan, Florida win third straight 
match
The senior scored two goals, pg. 15
Associate dean plans to run in sixth marathon
The associate dean of students plans to run in the 2016 
Chicago Marathon, pg. 3
UF to rebuild Institute of Black Culture
It should be completed by Spring 2018, pg. 5Monitoring Matthew
Follow us on Twitter @The Alligator for updateson the hurricane and its aftermath.
Follow us on Twitter @The Alligator for updates
Paige Fry / Alligator Staff
Gainesville residents Erich Marzolf, 55, left, and Michael Haynes, 26, ﬁ  ll sandbags at 
the Alachua County Public Works Department’s sandbag location, located at 11855 NW U.S. Highway 441, on Thursday morning. T aylor Cook / Alligator Staff
Gainesville residents evacuate Florida on Interstate 75 northbound from the path of Hurricane Matthew on Thursday afternoon, while few are coming to Gainesville.
Staff Report
Roger Jones walked into the Alachua 
County Senior Recreation Center with a blanket, a pillow and the Bible he’s had since 1978. Although he’s lived here for 35 years, he’s 
never seen a storm as strong as Matthew.
“I think about the trees and the power 
lines — it’s very dangerous,” Jones said. “You never know what can happen.”
He was one of 10 people who had settled into a temporary home nearly two hours af-ter the Alachua County emergency shelter’s  opening prior to Hurricane Matthew. 
Throughout Alachua County, ﬁ  rst re-
sponders and residents prepared for the 
storm, estimated to be a Category 3 when the eye approaches Palm Coast, Florida, about 80 miles east of Gainesville, at about 2 p.m. today. At UF Health Shands Hospital, staff plan to stay through the day to accept new patients from coastal hospitals in the storm’s path and in Alachua County. BRACING FOR IMPACT
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
After reviewing the shooting of a black 
Gainesville teenager by law enforcement, an Ala-
chua County grand jury ruled that although the 
shooting was lawful, it could have been avoided.
Filed in court Sept. 27, the jury’s report — re-
leased Thursday — details the March 20 shoot-
ing of Robert Dentmond, a 16-year-old who threatened to kill himself with an assault riﬂ  e 
at Majestic Oaks Apartments, located in Alachua 
County.
After Dentmond refused commands to drop 
the weapon, which turned out to be fake, nine Alachua County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce deputies and 
Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers opened ﬁ  re.
In its review, the jury expressed concern that 
many of the shots ﬁ  red at Dentmond struck ve-
hicles and apartment units.
It recommended both agencies study the fea-
sibility of establishing a command chain in the case of ﬁ  ring weapons at suspects, and that deci-sions to send groups of ofﬁ  cers to a scene should be made on a case-by-case basis instead of auto-
matically, as it was in Dentmond’s case. 
In its research, the jury 
looked over all local police-
involved shootings since 2001, a total of 16 incidents. In at 
least 14, the person shot had a known or diagnosed mental-health disorder.
Both agencies were encour-
aged to continue training on defusing mental-health-related 
situations.
“The death of Robert Dentmond was tragic, 
and as the members of the Grand Jury have ex-
pressed, avoidable,” Sheriff Sadie Darnell said in 
a statement. “It is also tragic that law enforce-ment personnel were placed in an untenable situation which we all dread.”
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgGrand jury: Dentmond shooting 
by police lawful but avoidable
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer
With reports of clown sightings in 
Gainesville over the past two weeks, 
a local costume-store owner expects a surge in clown-related sales at his three stores across the city.
Michael Brooks, the district man-
ager for the A Simply Unforgettable Party Shop chain, said he hasn’t seen an increase in sales just yet, but that most people buy their costumes once Halloween comes nearer.
And although the “creepy clown” 
craze, which began about two months ago in South Carolina and popped up in Gainesville Sept. 27, should draw more students to his store, Brooks has distanced himself from the sightings.
“Young people in town can take 
things a little too far sometimes,” he said. “We don’t like adding or tak-ing advantage of anything like that.”
After reports of clowns roaming 
Gainesville on Tuesday, a group 
of about 30 students wielding golf 
clubs and baseball bats formed a 
clown-hunting mob to ﬁ  nd them, 
WUFT reported.
On Tuesday, Gainesville Police 
increased its patrol at in the 700 
block of SW Depot Ave. following 
a complaint ﬁ  rst reported on Twit-
ter, said GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer 
Ben Tobias. There was also a sus-
picious-activity call on Southwest 12th Street, near Sorority Row, after someone saw girls running around 
and screaming, he said.
In all three cases, the alleged 
lurkers got away.
“I hope that folks will stop with 
the pranks before someone gets GNV costume sales 
impacted by clown craze
SEE COSTUME,  PAGE 4Dentmond 
SEE MATTHEW,  PAGE 8Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  79° LOW  74°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Hippodrome Political Watch 
Parties
Join the Hippodrome State Theatre to watch the presiden-tial debates leading up to the 
2016 election party Nov. 8. The 
Hippodrome basement will be open to the public for this can’t-miss series. All watch parties are free to attend. The watch party for the second presidential debate is Sunday, the watch party for the third presidential debate is Oct. 19 and the election night watch party is Nov. 8. The bar will open 30 minutes before the watch parties begin. Some Americana-
themed Hippodrome specials will 
be served. Grab your friends and a cocktail to enjoy this politically charged event (that’s all in good fun).
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 34
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Katie Campione 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
After 24 weeks of waking up 
at 4:30 a.m. to run, Anthony De-
Santis, UF’s associate dean of 
students, is spending his Sunday 
morning competing in a mara-thon. 
“I hate running,” he said, but 
added, “If I can help motivate one person a day, I’ve done my job. ” 
On Sunday, DeSantis is run-
ning in the 2016 Chicago Mara-
thon.
This will be DeSantis’s sixth 
marathon.
After a former graduate assis-
tant asked DeSantis to join him in the race, he agreed despite a 
lack of passion for the sport. 
He said he runs as a way to 
show others to take time out of 
their day to de-stress. 
After his father died four years 
ago, DeSantis said he began run-
ning to prove to himself and UF 
students the value of taking time for themselves. 
“I wasn’t taking care of my-
self, and I wasn’t setting a good example for students, let alone myself,” he said. 
He found that after every race, 
he felt a sense of relief. 
His former graduate assistant, 
Joe Pokraka, said it was a “no-brainer” to ask DeSantis to run 
with him. 
It will be the second time they 
run together in a Chicago Mara-
thon, he said.  
They share a common passion 
for encouraging others and a dis-like for the sport, but Pokraka said DeSantis motivates him to work toward a goal. 
“I hate running,” Pokraka 
said. “I wouldn’t have done an-other one without him motivat-ing me.”Associate dean of students to run in sixth marathon
THE ORGANIZATION’S 
FOUNDER HOPES TO PAIR 
LOCALS WITH THOSE 
WHO HAVE DEPRESSION.
By Mercedes Leguizamon
Alligator Contributing Writer
After battling bipolar disorder 
for two years, Brian Hamm wants to let others know they’re not 
alone. 
In August, the 23-year-old cre-
ated the local organization War-
riors Find Hope as a way to pair 
up students who have depression 
with others who can help guide them through the emotional trial. The “hopefulls,” or the volun-
teers not dealing with depression, will help the “warriors,” students with depression, by giving them someone to talk to, Hamm said. 
“I feel like we are missing that 
component of just love and com-passion,” he said. 
Counseling helped Hamm 
through his struggle with bipolar disorder, but he wants his orga-nization to help others through a more personal experience. 
Hamm said he was able to work 
at a suicide hotline for six months, which gave him the chance to help others who were battling different types of mental illnesses. 
“I am one of the most healthy people with bipolar disorder,” 
Hamm said. “So with what I’ve 
experienced, I want to give back.” 
Hamm, who plans to transfer to 
UF, has been working to create the 
organization for two months. Cur-
rently, a handful of his friends are part of the group. 
Benjamin Heggie, who has 
known Hamm for 10 years, was there when Hamm went through his battle with bipolar disorder. Heggie was the original hopefull, while Hamm was the warrior.
“I always see him always striv-
ing to overcome this burden on his life,” Heggie said. 
Joan Scully, a counselor at the 
UF Counseling & Wellness Cen-ter, said having a friend there can 
make all the difference. 
“Social support (groups) are 
a big part of how people get bet-
ter,” Scully said. “Peer support is 
always the way to go.”
She said there may be some 
times when professional help may be necessary, especially if the is-
sue becomes something the hope-full cannot handle individually. 
“If people are having difﬁ  culty 
communicating, or if they are ex-pressing any thoughts of harming 
themselves,” Scully said, “or if 
there’s clearly a drug or alcohol issue going on, those would be reasons to involve a professional.” 
The CWC offers support groups similar to Hamm’s organization, 
she said. 
Grace Hubbard, 23, a member 
of Warriors Find Hope, has suf-
fered from depression for about 10 
years. 
“As soon as he told me about 
the idea, I was on board,” the San-ta Fe College early childhood edu-
cation sophomore said. “I think it will help a lot of students to open up.” 
Hamm said he hopes to begin 
pairing up members of the organi-
zation for 30 days by Nov. 1. 
“We are going to teach de-
pressed people that they are not 
weaker,” Hamm said. “It’s going to be like this little community.” 
Organization hopes to support students with depression 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Anthony DeSantis and his wife, Michelle, pose for a photo after 
running the 2013 Charleston Marathon. Anthony DeSantis, UF’s associate dean of students, will be running his sixth marathon on Sunday in Chicago. He has been training for it the past 24 weeks.“I hate running. If I can help 
motivate one person a day, I’ve 
done my job.”
Anthony DeSantis
UF’s associate dean of 
studentsHe’s been training for the past 24 weeksBy Robyn Wilbur
Alligator Contributing Writer 
When Marisol Silva was 14, she helped her 
mother, who emigrated from Peru, study for the 
U.S. citizenship test.
Now, the third-year UF law student will help 
UF implement a training program to help undoc -
umented students. 
“This is honestly a dream come true,” the 
23-year-old said. 
On Wednesday, UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs 
appointed Silva to serve as the undocumented 
student support specialist. Silva will work with 
student organization Chispas UF to help create and implement UndocuAlly, a training program for UF faculty and staff to help undocumented students with applications.
The training will clear up myths about undoc
-
umented students and the struggles they face, as well as foster a welcoming environment, Silva said.  
Diana Moreno, the program coordinator for 
UF Hispanic-Latino Affairs, said Silva will also 
work to identify and close the gaps in the services 
that UF provides to undocumented students.
“Undocumented students are everywhere, 
and a lot of them struggle an impressive amount to be able to be here,” Moreno said. “We saw a passion in Marisol for advancing the rights of others.”
She said Silva will be paid 
through funding from the Florida Immigrant Coalition, a coalition of different organi
-
zations that works toward the rights of immigrants. With Sil
-
va’s experience with immigra -
tion and law, undocumented 
students can go to her for help. 
“We want to work together and help the uni -
versity improve,” Moreno said.  
Silva remembers being happy when her moth -
er became a citizen, because she understood the struggles undocumented immigrants face. 
“Being an undocumented student comes with 
unique challenges, so finding that support net
-
work is crucial,” Silva said. 
Silva’s office hours, which began this week, 
are from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesdays at the Hispanic-Latino Engage
-
ment Center, also known as La Salita, in the Re -
itz Union. On Wednesdays, Silva has office hours at La Casita, located at 1504 W. University Ave., from 2 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.
“I have always wanted to work with the un
-
documented community,” Silva said. “It is some -
thing that is really close to my heart, and I want to spend the rest of my life working with undocu
-
mented people.”4   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
While most election discussions 
have centered around Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, Gainesville resi-dents will get a chance to hear from a third-party candidate Monday.
Ajamu Baraka, the vice presiden-
tial candidate for the Green Party, will visit  the Alachua County Down-town Headquarters Branch library to speak about his running mate Jill Stein’s platform and answer attend-ees’ questions.
At 3:30 p.m., he will conduct a 
Q&A session before discussing policy at 7 p.m., said Shawna Doran, a co-chair of the Alachua County Green Party, which organized the event.
At the meeting, Baraka will dis-
cuss public banking, ending institu-tionalized racism, the living wage and the elimination of student debt, she said. 
The meetings will provide stu-dents who strug-gle with college debt a chance to 
ask Baraka about 
what he and Stein will do to address their concerns, Doran said.
Many UF stu-
dents will wind 
up leaving school thousands of dol-lars in debt, she said. For them, this 
election may decide their economic future.
“If we adjust where our money is 
coming from and going, then educa-tion is paid for,” Doran said.
William “Bill” Warrick III, a 
member of Veterans for Peace Cen-
tral Florida, said U.S. politics could use someone like Baraka, who has proved his commitment to serving the public for the past 25 years.
Baraka, a military veteran, has 
been a community organizer and 
humanitarian for most of his life, Warrick said.
Stein has said she hopes to redi-
rect funding away from the country’s military to fund renewable energy 
and education reform, which War-rick said he agrees with.
“We need a person with a real 
program to move this country in the right direction,” he said.
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org
Green Party vice presidential candidate to speak in Gainesville
By Sara Marino
Alligator Contributing Writer
After peddling ice pops around 
Gainesville for the past six years, the 
founder of The Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops 
will open a Midtown coffee shop next 
week.
Wyatt’s Coffee, located at 16 NW 
18th St., Unit 120, is scheduled to open 
Thursday, where The Hyppo’s Midtown 
location once was, owner and UF alumnus Stephen DiMare said.
Selling coffee, tea, pastries and about 
60 types of chocolate bars, the cafe will 
be open from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., he said.
In a city already teeming with local 
coffee shops, DiMare said there can 
never be too much caffeine near campus.
“I would have loved to have just 
another option (for coffee),” he said, referring to his time as a student.
DiMare said the coffee, which costs 
between $2.50 and $4, will be sourced 
from seven roasters, four of which are 
from Florida. The chocolate bars, to be shipped mainly from Brooklyn and Los Angeles, will come in flavors like white 
chocolate, coffee and doughnut milk 
chocolate. Those will cost between $5 and $10.
For the first ten days of business, 
DiMare will offer one free cup of coffee or tea per day per person, he said. And until the end of November, he will offer buy-one-get-one-free promotions.
“People like nice things, so this 
would be a great thing to come and try,” he said.
The name of the shop, he said, 
references a sheriff from the 1800s 
named Wyatt Earp who fought off 
bandits. In DiMare’s mind, the area where UF’s campus ends and Midtown begins represents the “final frontier,” with Wyatt’s Coffee emerging as an 
enforcer.
He also just really likes the sound of 
the name.
“I love that name, and I think it 
would be a nice name for a child,” he 
said. “But I don’t have a child. I have a coffee shop.”
Casey Wooster, 24, said she typically 
chooses independent coffee shops over 
national chains, so she is excited to try 
Wyatt’s.
“It’s an experience,” the UF museum 
studies masters student said, “not just a 
tool to keep me awake in school.”Hyppo founder to open 
Midtown coffee shopUF law student to serve as specialist 
for undocumented studentsBaraka
Silva
She was appointed W ednesday
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A North Carolina man was found 
with a loaded pistol Wednesday at the 
Gainesville Regional Airport, police said.
At about 6 a.m., Michael Patrick 
McKenna, 42, walked through a Transportation Security Administration checkpoint at the airport when a TSA employee noticed the weapon in his carry-on luggage, according to a police report.
The airport is located at 3880 NE 39th 
Ave.
Packed in a gray-and-black handbag, 
the .40-caliber Glock 23 held 26 bullets in its chamber, according to the report.
After noticing the gun through the 
X-ray checkpoint, the TSA employee reported it to a Gainesville Police officer at the airport, according to the report.
The officer then confronted McKenna, who was found not to be a licensed concealed-
carry permit holder, 
according to the report.
McKenna told police 
he did not realize the 
gun was in his bag 
when he entered the 
airport, according to the 
report.
Police arrested McKenna on a charge 
of carrying a concealed firearm without a 
license, a third-degree felony. The arrest 
was his first in Alachua County, according 
to court records.
Authorities took McKenna to the 
Alachua County Jail, where he was 
released Thursday on a $10,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgGPD: Man packed pistol in 
luggage at GNV airport
hurt,” Tobias said in a state-
ment released Wednesday. “Police are aware and are investigating any incidents as they come in, but none of our officers have witnessed the activity themselves.”
With tensions high, 
Brooks has decided to curb a time-honored tradition: dressing up like a clown and walking down West Univer-sity Avenue to promote his seasonal store, Simply Hal-loween Store.
He and his employees 
will be wearing the costume — modeled after the clown in “Killer Klowns from Outer Space,” but he won’t wear it as often, and he definitely won’t wear it at night, he said.
“It’s more of a concern 
that we’ll be safe in it,” Brooks said.
Despite the possibility 
that a prospective “creepy clown” might buy their cos-tume at his shop, Brooks said there was nothing he could do to stop that.
“We can’t not sell to peo-
ple because of what’s going on,” he said.
Because Simply Unfor-
getable buys their costume selection a year in advance, Brooks said he didn’t pre-pare for this craze.
 Their clown costume se-lection includes a $2 mask, which he expects many stu-dents to buy, and a variety of more expensive, higher-quality masks, which go for about $45.
Andrés Esteller, a 
21-year-old UF industrial and systems engineering junior, said Halloween in Gainesville may see throngs of clown-costume-clad stu-dents. But he said he hopes clowns know their boundar-ies and refrain from getting themselves hurt.
“I just hope everyone 
stays safe,” he said. 
Staff writer Jasmine Os-
mond contributed to this re-port.
COSTUME,  from pg. 1Costume stores expect to see an 
increase in clown mask sales
McKenna
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s........$45.00  (74.75)
6................$75.00 (103.50)
6+..........$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th Street
IT IS EXPECTED 
TO BE FINISHED 
IN SPRING 2018.
Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
In December, UF students will 
say farewell to the Institute of Black 
Culture building of the past 44 years.
The IBC, which opened in 1972, 
is being torn down and rebuilt at a new location, said Khyra Keeley, the social justice and advocacy chair for UF Black Affairs. The new structure, located on West University Avenue, is expected to be ﬁ  nished in Spring 2018.
The project will be completed us-
ing a budget of $3.3 million, which will also be used to rebuild La Ca-
sita, which is next door to the IBC, 
Keeley said. The current IBC will be torn down before the end of the year.
Keeley said the rebuild is sad but necessary. With mold and mildew present, the house is unsafe for stu-dents to be in. Some windows are boarded, and it is not compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act, making it inaccessible to some.  
“The house is pretty much de-
crepit,” the 20-year-old UF political science and African-American stud-
ies junior said. 
The IBC opened Feb. 11, 1972 af-
ter protests at Tigert Hall demanded 
UF to be more inclusive of black stu-dents, she said. 
“People have fought for us to 
have this space,” she said. “It’s a space for black students to come and know they are supported, valued and welcomed.”
Kalimah Ujaama, 20, said she is 
excited for the new house but hopes it keeps the same feeling of home as 
the original building. 
“It’s deﬁ  nitely going to be a good 
change,” the UF political science 
sophomore said. “It needs to have some modern updates.”
Faculty want students to give 
their ideas of what should be includ-ed in the design of the new space. 
Ujaama said she wants there to 
be a large room for people to gather and host events, a big television, a memory room honoring accomplish-ments of black students at UF and a 
place to nap. 
“It’s a good ending,” she said. 
“Everyone still has time to be a part 
before it closes.”
UF to start rebuilding Institute of Black Culture in DecemberCatherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A new study has found a way to 
potentially halt the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. 
UF professors Dr. Diego Rincon-
Limas and Dr. Todd Golde recently 
ﬁ  nished a two-year study that they 
published in an issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Scienc-es, Rincon-Limas said. A $275,000 grant from the National Institute of Health funded their work.The two developed a device 
that can limit the amount of amy-
loid beta buildup in the brain. The 
amino acid is known as a signiﬁ  cant contributor to Alzheimer’s disease, a type of dementia that affects mem-ory, language and thought, he said. 
The researchers tested the lev-
els of buildup and toxicity around neurons in the eyes of fruit ﬂ  ies, Rincon-Limas said. Fruit ﬂ  ies can be 
easily seen under a microscope, and 
they reproduce quickly. 
“In ﬂ  ies, it works very well,” he 
said. “We can stop the toxicity for sure.”
The hope is that soon there 
will be research to show how Al-zheimer’s disease can be prevented, stopped or even reversed. 
Rincon-Limas said the disease 
is one that affects 500,000 people in Florida and more than 5 million people nationwide. 
“It will be a while until we really 
understand the underlying mecha-
nisms,” he said. “Meanwhile, hav-
ing tools that help us understand the disease is making good progress.”
Phil Skinner, a UF industrial and systems engineering junior, said his paternal grandmother has demen-
tia. 
“It’s really sad,” the 20-year-old 
said. “When someone forgets who 
you are, all of the memories you remember making with them don’t exist.”
His grandmother, who was diag-
nosed ﬁ  ve years ago, used to be an outgoing socialite. 
“I wouldn’t wish this on my 
worst enemy,” he said. “It’s really a terrible thing to watch someone suffer from.”Alzheimer’s disease can be ge-
netic, and the history of it goes back four generations in Skinner’s family.
He said he is glad research is pro-
gressing. It gives him hope for his family’s future. 
“I hope that we make huge leaps 
and bounds in the research in the future,” he said. “I hope that re-search continues and that really soon we can see results.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
UF researchers publish new ﬁ  ndings on combating Alzheimer’s
THE STUDY FOUND WOMEN 
HAVE TO PERFORM TO A 
HIGHER STANDARD TO 
BE PROMOTED.
By Elizabeth Barrett 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Women are less likely to be promoted 
because of gender bias in the workforce, 
according to a UF professor’s ﬁ  ndings. 
Joyce Bono, a UF management pro-
fessor, conducted four studies over the past eight years that suggest different standards are used to evaluate the same behavior between men and women.  
“One thing that is very clear is that 
this is not someone being (biased) and saying I don’t want women in top leader-ship,” she said. 
More than half of ﬁ  rst-time managers 
are women, she said, and more than half of business degrees at the undergraduate level are earned by women. But Bono said her research showed that women have to perform at a higher standard than men to be promoted.
The studies aimed to make sense of 
gender gaps in the upper ranks of organi-zations by looking at gender bias in boss-es’ evaluations of managers’ derailment potential, she said. Derailment is the idea that an employee who was thought to be high-potential doesn’t achieve expecta-tion. 
If a woman and a man exhibit the 
same ineffective interpersonal skills, a boss would be more hesitant to promote the woman because the boss has been conditioned to believe women should be nicer, Bono said. 
When Bono and her team looked 
at formal performance evaluations of managers, there was no bias. But when bosses were asked about the derailment potential of a manager in the future, a 
gender bias emerged. 
Elisabeth Gilbert, 28, a co-author of 
the study, said they found that female 
managers are seen as more likely to fail and as having less potential to succeed. 
“They are small effects, but they mat-
ter a lot if you’re the woman in the situ-ation,” the UF business administration doctoral student said. “They matter a lot if we think about big organizations.” 
Bono said the best way to ﬁ  x the gen-
der bias is to talk about it. 
“So I think the main thing is to have 
continued conversation at all levels,” she said, “from undergraduate students to CEOs of companies.”UF professor found gender bias in work aﬀ  ects women
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
IN ALL KINDS OF WEATHER
Yasmin Stiggons, a 20-year-old UF political science and sustainability studies senior, is 
handed her “Beat” T-shirt by Florida Cicerone Isabella Paretti, a 20-year-old economics and international studies junior, at Emerson Alumni Hall on Thursday morning. By 11 a.m., 1,180 shirts had been given out. 
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
You’re at a concert, standing with some friends in the pit. 
“Hello Gainesville!” shouts the lead singer to his adoring fans. 
You start singing along to the lyrics of their No.1 song, but something’s off. The singer’s lips are moving to the actual lyrics, but all you hear through the microphone is “Darts and Laurels, 
Darts and Laurels.” You look to your friend to see what’s up. 
But instead of your friend, it’s one of those creepy clowns. It tilts its head, looks  into your soul and whispers, “What, don’t you love this song?”
Darts & Laurels
We’re grateful you picked up the paper today, dear readers. 
School’s canceled because of Hurricane Matthew, meaning if you’re not reading this online, you’re still on (or relatively close to) campus for some precarious reason. Hurricane Matthew is a bad motherf----- with winds reaching up to 120 mph. We throw 
a dart into the vicious winds of the great storm and hope it 
pops lots of clown balloons on its way through.
But you don’t need the hurricane to get you out of school. 
It seems everyone is sick these days, dear readers. Perhaps it’s 
the “itis” (pronounced: eye-tiss) going around. You know the itis. It’s that weird nasal drip in the back of your throat. It’s that disgusting half-sneeze-half-cough combination. It’s that annoy-ing snifﬂ  e that you hear in the back of class over and over again. This dart is to you, human immune system, for not destroy-
ing the itis yet and, instead, just spreading it around.
By now, dear readers, you’ve probably heard the news re-
garding Kim Kardashian West. Early Monday morning in Paris, 
according to local police, armed assailants held Kim at gunpoint in her luxury residence, locked her in the bathroom and stole more than $10 million worth of jewelry. Thankfully she wasn’t physically harmed, but Kardashian West is reportedly blaming herself and feeling distraught. Say what you will about her TV show and superstar, classy lifestyle, but at the end of the day, any human being who undergoes this sort of trauma deserves support. Being famous doesn’t divorce you from pain. We at the Alligator send a laurel of love to you, Kim.
You animals who did this better watch yourselves. Kim K 
and Kanye are national treasures; any harm done to them is a slap in the face to America. There’s no place you can hide. In fact, start practicing your Español because once we ﬁ  nd you, it’s straight to Guantanamo. We at the Alligator have been criti-cal of Obama’s unchecked use of drone strikes before, but for you? We’ll make an exception. We might even launch the damn thing ourselves.
Speaking of American power couples, did any of you watch 
Tim Kaine and Mike Pence go at it Tuesday night? We as a country asked ourselves what could possibly be worse than the Trump vs. Clinton debate, and God said let there be veeps. That 
debate was so bad that from the highest seat in heaven, Ha-
rambe (may he rest in peace) shed yet another tear. Haven’t we done enough?
For real, though. Tuesday evening somehow gave this elec-
tion a new low. Case in point: After Kaine’s repeated hits on Trump’s derogatory statements on women and Mexicans, Pence would come back brilliantly with, “Senator, you’ve whipped out that Mexican thing again.” Oy. First off, how characteristic of a Trump administrator to brush off racism as just a “thing.” 
And secondly, “whipped out that Mexican thing,” Mike Pence? 
C’mon, man, you’re running for the vice presidency. We give a dart to Pence for his all-around idiocy and middle-school-level comebacks. Also, another dart to Kaine, for his inabil-ity to stop interrupting Pence. We know you have a lot of feelings about this election, we all do. But being rude makes you just as bad as Trump himself. 
Anyway, stay dry. Enjoy your Friday off from school. But 
above all, dear readers, watch out for those damn clowns. It 
might soon be time to talk about a wall between us and those 
mongrels — and make Chuck E. Cheese’s pay for it.Why people should trust the use of antidepressants
I recently saw an argument unfold on one 
of my friend’s Facebook statuses. The post was a combination of two images: one of 
a forest with writing that said, “This is an 
antidepressant.” The second image was of 
several pill packages that implied prescribed antidepressants, with writing stating the vul-
gar equivalent of, “This is garbage.” 
There was one person who was absolutely 
adamant about agreeing with the image, while 
several others were defending certain people’s needs for prescribed medical help in order to ﬁ  ght their depres-
sion. 
I saw that a few of my friends had made comments 
in opposition to what the ﬁ  rst person had said. They 
defended the use of medicine to help give some people 
the boost they need to feel better, and they offered their 
own experiences about why one option might not nec-essarily always be the better option for everyone. 
As someone who has tried multiple options to ﬁ  ght 
my depression and anxiety — but ultimately needed a 
little extra, although temporary, help from medicine — 
it made me realize how much I could relate to their points. I also realized how hard it can be to live with a mental-health disorder in a place where one of the big-
gest trends is to oppose “Big Pharma” at all costs.
According to some individuals who may have had a 
negative experience with medicine, prescription medi-
cation is the devil incarnate, and it was created to ruin everyone’s lives and create new diseases along the way 
so that everyone will be hooked on their medicine and 
become mind slaves to the biggest names in pharma-ceuticals. According to others, it’s the reason they’re still alive. 
What should be noted for either side of the argument 
— whether you’re for or against any kind of medication — is that each case is different. Maybe you’re vitamin-B- or vitamin-D-deﬁ  cient and just need to re-balance of those vitamins so you can get back to feeling like yourself. Maybe you need to 
take a day off of work to relax and recover 
from the stress that’s getting you down. May-be some lavender essential oil or meditation will take the edge off your nerves. 
I can’t express how many times I’ve been 
told I’d be less anxious and a lot happier if I exercised more or cut carbs and sugar from 
my diet or — my personal favorite — that it’s all in my head. Well, yeah. Of course it’s in my head. It’s not 
called a mental-health issue just for fun. Yes, exercise is 
great, and eating healthy does fantastic things for your body, but at the end of the day, some people just need a little more help than others. There is absolutely noth-
ing to be worried about or ashamed of when it comes 
to needing a little extra help. It’s likely that no one will feel the exact same way as you and, in the end, you probably know what’s best for you.
I am by no means a doctor, but if I could offer a bit 
of advice, it would be to do what is best for you. If that means exercising, do that. If you think a change in diet will help you out, go eat some vegetables. If you need a day off to relax and reﬂ  ect on what makes you happy, 
go right ahead. If you need to talk to a doctor about tak-
ing antidepressants, you do that too. 
What eventually ended my friends’ argument on 
Facebook was a picture posted by a good friend of mine. It showed a similar image to the one in the initial post, 
but instead of a criticism on the bottom image, it read, 
“There is no shame in getting help. This is an antide-pressant, too.” At the end of the day, the opinion of others is not important. You are who matters the most.
Alexa DeLoera is a UF political science senior. Her 
column appears on Fridays.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alexa DeLoera
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Bonnaroo, Lollapalooza, 
Glastonbury, Coachella: The names sound like 
exotic, tribal get-togeth-
ers deep in a rainforest 
and, frankly, that description is not far off. 
The concept of a music fes-
tival is by no means new (e.g., Woodstock), but the impressive abundance and unrelenting frequency of the music festival has certainly spiked in 
recent years.
 But what does the future hold for this 
medium of musical enjoyment?
As easy as it is to romanticize Wood-
stock and say “Oh, if only I were alive to 
attend!” I’d like to take a more pragmatic approach in my assessment of that sum-mer of ’69. 
Were those hippies aware they were 
on the front lines of a cultural phenom-enon? Or were they just a bunch of smelly kids sleeping in tents, sitting in mud and wishing to go home? 
For years, I have been skeptical of 
the ever-growing music-festival craze. I watch YouTube videos of crowds that look less like concert-goers and more like inﬁ  nite seas of bouncing and head-bob-
bing mannequins. 
Can anyone even see the stage? How 
can you even hear the music? Standing 
for hours on end, sweating profusely and 
ﬁ  nding myself shoulder-to-shoulder with 
equally sweaty strangers are three things I put considerable effort into avoiding, but what is it these people know that I do not? Why put myself in a potentially fatal 
mosh pit to see several artists when I can 
pay to see the one I want in a much more civilized setting?
The answer is hard to explain.
It wasn’t until summer that I experi-
enced an appreciation for these massive 
get-togethers of audiophiles. 
While in New York City, I attended the 
Governors Ball Music Festival to see one 
of my favorite artists: The Strokes. With 
Strokes shows being the musical equiv-alent of Halley’s Comet, I had to jump on this opportunity — regardless of the 
venue.Our world is changing. At-
tending a concert, contrary to 
what I have always imagined, 
doesn’t involve dressing up and 
taking a carriage to the Apollo Theatre. 
While that might’ve been 
true in 1920s London, the mod-ern man must settle for dress-ing down to ﬂ  ip-ﬂ  ops and tak-
ing an Uber to a ﬁ  eld.
From the way I am describing it, at-
tending a music festival probably sounds like nothing but social sacriﬁ  ces and comfort compromises. But, as Nietzsche said, “to live is to suffer, but to survive is 
to ﬁ  nd some meaning in the suffering.”
Once that wristband is secured way 
too tightly around your wrist, you are no 
longer yourself, but instead just “part of the crowd.” 
There is something oddly comfort-
ing about being a part of a population all gathered together for a shared love of certain noises.
 Big and small, young and old: The 
multicolored crowd sluggishly sways back and forth like a massive organism. 
We’re all sweaty, and if it weren’t for 
our favorite sounds entering our ears, 
we’d only be thinking about the aches in 
our lower backs. 
But, the collective plight is overcome 
— which is something quite incredible — 
and an overwhelming love for life with-
in the moment washes over the crowd, which is something that can’t be experi-enced while sitting comfortably in a vel-vet theater seat.
This festival fad will eventually dis-
solve as gradually as it began, but I am not worried. Humans are social creatures and will always be looking for new and 
creative ways to experience certain parts 
of life’s enjoyment together. 
Regardless of what trend or medium 
of entertainment is next, the overall pur-pose will never change: to gather over a 
collective love for something, which I be-
lieve we need to do more often.
Andrew Hall is a UF business admin-
istration junior. His column appears on 
Fridays.A look at the music-festival crazeColumn
Last month, the U.S. 
House of Representa-tives passed the Justice 
Against Sponsors of 
Terrorism Act (JASTA), 
which would allow families of 9/11 victims to sue Saudi 
Arabia for its alleged com-
plicity in the terrorist attacks. President Barack Obama ve-toed the bill, arguing it would not only un-dermine strong diplomatic relations with 
Saudi Arabia, but it would also weaken 
the long-standing tradition of sovereign immunity: the legal doctrine that no for-eign nation can be held responsible from 
civil suit of prosecution. However, the 
veto was overridden by an overwhelming margin — 97-1 in the Senate and 348-77 in the House.
This bipartisan rejection of the presi-
dent’s plea is shocking for several rea-sons: First of all, it was the ﬁ  rst override of an Obama veto in his tenure. This bi-partisan resistance could be attributed to congressional Democrats’ eagerness 
to look tough on terrorism in an election 
year, but it could also be an expression of discontent with the president’s passive foreign policy in the Middle East. More 
importantly, however, it shows Congress’ 
willingness to stand up to Saudi Arabia, a country that oppresses women, exports 
a particularly extreme strain of Islamism 
known as Wahhabism and has indiscrimi-nately bombarded civilian targets in Ye-men. Yet, the U.S. has never held Saudi Arabia accountable.In addition to JASTA, last 
month the Senate voted on a resolution that restricts arms 
sales to Saudi Arabia until 
it stops targeting civilians in Yemen. Likewise, 27 senators voted against a $1.15-billion-
dollar arms deal to Saudi Ara-
bia. While neither of these initiatives proved successful, 
it nonetheless marks a shift in American attitudes toward Saudi Arabia, who until 
now has failed to put any serious pressure 
on the country for its dismal human-rights record. Not only does the U.S. have the power and leverage to shape domestic 
politics in foreign countries for the sake 
of human rights, but it is also its moral re-sponsibility as the leader of the free world to do so. In 1974, President Nixon threat-ened to veto the Jackson-Vanik amend-
ment, which revoked the USSR’s “most-
favored-nation” status until it respected basic human rights, such as the right to emigrate. Although this bill revealed a 
similar incongruity between Congress and 
the Senate, as with JASTA, it applied pres-sure on the USSR to open its doors to emi-gration.
JASTA will not come without its draw-
backs. Considering the U.S. is the most active country in foreign affairs, perhaps it has the most to lose from this breach of sovereign immunity. Some fear the U.S. 
will be on the receiving end of future law-
suits for the accidental killing of civilians in Syria or drone strikes in Pakistan, for example.
However, JASTA marks a step in the 
right direction for American foreign policy and a signiﬁ  cant shift in the status quo of Saudi-U.S. relations. American pres-sure could bring about some changes in 
Saudi policies both at home and abroad. 
For now, we can only hope the next presi-dent will follow the lead of Congress, rather than continue the legacy of this president’s policy of complacency toward 
human-rights violators such as Saudi Ara-
bia and Iran.
Julian Fleischman is a UF political sci-
ence and telecommunication senior. His 
column appears on Fridays.Pressure on Saudi Arabia long overdueColumn
“JASTA marks a step 
in the right direction 
for American 
foreign policy and 
a signiicant shift 
in the status quo of 
Saudi-U.S. relations."
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
Julian Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgOn Thursday afternoon, UF canceled classes after 3 
p.m. and closed campus for the rest of the weekend. Just 
before 4 p.m., the Southeastern Conference announced the football game, scheduled for noon Saturday against Louisiana State University, will be postponed, as of press 
time.
“Obviously, you could not play a game under those 
circumstances, nor would you want to,” said UF athlet-
ics director Jeremy Foley, adding that the storm was a “potentially catastrophic event” for the state and for the city. 
As of Thursday evening, Hurricane Matthew was 
moving northwest at a rate of about 13 mph, according to the National Weather Service. By 2 p.m. Thursday, 
Matthew tore through Haiti, killing an estimated 283 
people and bringing the storm’s death toll to nearly 300, according to the Weather Channel, as of press time. 
Gainesville is expected to feel winds more than 39 
mph starting at about 6 a.m. Thursday through 2 a.m. Saturday, according to an Alachua County media release. Between 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. today, winds are expected to reach 61 mph.
Thursday morning, Gov. Rick Scott held a press con-
ference in Tallahassee, pleading with Florida residents to prepare for the worst. 
“The storm has already killed people. We should ex-
pect the same impact in Florida,” he said, according to the Associated Press.
At the press conference, Scott called Matthew a “life-
threatening storm.” He urged residents to have at least a three-day supply of food, water and medicine, according to The Weather Channel. 
Mandatory evacuations were ordered for Brevard, 
Flagler, Indian River, St. Johns, St. Lucie, Palm Beach and Volusia Counties, as of press time. The University of Central Florida also evacuated its main campus, and for the fourth time in its history, Walt Disney World closed its doors today. 
In Gainesville, four emergency shelters were set up, 
with UF planning to open one at the Reitz Union at 7 a.m. today. 
At Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings Elementary School, 
principal Daniel Burney prepared the cafeteria to shelter up to 600 people. Though the shelter isn’t primarily for pets, litter and pet food lined a wall.
If winds reach 35 mph, those with pets won’t be 
turned away, he said. Until then, residents were told to drop pets off with Alachua County Animal Services. 
St. Augustine resident Bonnie Cooney, 36, kissed her chihuahua, Fifel, goodbye before leaving him and Toby, another chihuahua mix, at the animal services shelter. She ﬂ  ed with others from her mobile home due to a man-datory evacuation, despite living inland.
Dwinnie Slade, an ACAS senior ofﬁ  ce assistant, said 
she had been ﬁ  elding calls all day from people asking about dropping off pets. By 3 p.m. Thursday, the shelter was housing six dogs and two orange cats.
“I don’t think it’s ending any time soon,” Slade said.8   ALLIGATOR     FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Paradise and Sheray play together in a kennel at 
the Alachua County Animal Services pet shelter, where they were dropped off together before their owner took shelter from the hurricane.  Floridians evacuating their homes could bring their animals to the shelter to ride out Hurricane Matthew.
MATTHEW,  from pg. 1The hurricane has killed nearly 300 people
Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Weather Channel  
• Hourly forecasts, weather maps and severe weather alerts. 
• NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion) Weather Radar & Alerts. 
• Radar and satellite images with all National Weather Ser-
vice watches and warnings. 
• Push notiﬁ  cations for weather alerts including tornadoes 
and ﬂ  ood warnings. 
Weather Underground
• Current conditions from local weather stations, hourly 
forecasts and interactive weather maps.
WeatherBug • 18 different weather maps, lightning alerts and trafﬁ  c con-ditions. 
Hurricane Center  
• Hurricane by American Red Cross. 
• Available in English and Spanish.
• Step-by-step instructions for during and after the storm, available without data connectivity.
• Alert feed with “I’m Safe” alerts available to send through Facebook, Twitter, email and text.
• List of local Red Cross shelter locations.
• First Aid by American Red Cross. 
• Available in English and Spanish. 
• Step-by-step ﬁ  rst-aid instructions.
• Hurricane safety tips.
Other Technology  
• NOAA Weather Radio, or a battery or hand-crank radio.  
• NOAA radio Alachua County frequency is 162.475, call 
sign WXJ60. 
• Tips ahead of bad weather.
• Back up important computer ﬁ  les onto a USB or external 
drive. 
• Shut down computer operating systems, unplug Ethernet cables and turn off printers. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Looking to stay 
informed? Use these hurricane 
apps and websitesFRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Peggy Bowman, a 68-year-old Gainesville resident, stocks up on supplies to prepare for Hurricane 
Matthew at the Winn-Dixie on Southwest 20th Street on Thursday afternoon. “I’ve been prepared. I have two freezers, ” she said, placing a bottle of Welch’s grape jelly into her shopping cart.
Students with Catholic Gators huddle together as the rain from Hurricane Matthew begins to fall on Turlington Plaza on Thursday afternoon.
What’s Open, What’s Closed
• Regional Transit System’s campus routes will not run Friday. Other routes will run 
with reduced service. Normal operations will resume Saturday when it is safe.
• UF’s Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol will stop running Friday at midnight and reopen Saturday if it is safe to do so.
• Alachua County libraries will close Thursday at 5 p.m. through Friday and will reopen Saturday, if weather permits.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-11-16-9-2
Spacious Apartment For Rent-The Oaks-Spacious one Bedroom apartment for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall and Restaurants. On Bus-Line.Call 404-323-9338     10-7-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647     10-7-1-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
ACROSS
1 City NE of
Odessa
8 American
Pharoah
accoutrement
14 Like many lots
15 Like bad butter16 Item on a certain
thief’s rap sheet?
18 Party planner’s
compilation
19 Big Island
entertainment
20 Tour stop22 Put down23 Sequential
exercise
26 Name on the
1983 album“More Music forFilms”
27 Long-distance
calling org.?
29 Linguistic ending30 Graceful wader32 Dinner for a
lottery winner?
36 “C U When U Get
There” rapper
38 Cans on a
Lowe’s shelf
39 Mural of a wild
canine?
41 Flew like a birdie42 Minn. neighbor43 Zachary Taylor,
e.g.
47 Affected denial48 Held up51 With 48-Down,
judging withothers
52 Sign of spring53 Prominent
feature of“Twilight” films?
54 Query in Matthew56 Last of a $140
stack?
60 Follows61 “The Little Prince”
author Saint-Exupéry
62 Like hunks63 Ached (for)
DOWN
1 Economical bikes2 Not a good way
to be caught3 Call it off
4 Pullover
beneficiaries
5 Bookkeeper’s
concerns: Abbr.
6 Gp. with many
arms
7 Strauss’ “__
Rosenkavalier”
8 Slow down9 Hurries
10 Tattoo parlor
supplies
11 Roman 60112 Not hurry home
from
13 Avant-garde
quality
17 Aromatic 
cocktail
21 Düsseldorf deity24 Director DeMille
25 “I’ll kneel down /
And ___ thee
forgiveness”:King Lear
28 “Kidding”30 Former attorney
general Holder
31 Moody Blues hit
with anexclamation pointin its title33 “When I was __
... ”: “H.M.S.
Pinafore” lyric
34 Starts the day35 Sample
36 Whoops it up
37 West39 Hinge holder40 Like stormy seas44 Sauce served
with mu shu pork
45 Chant
46 Profited48 See 51-Across
49 Not at all calm
50 Judge’s decrees
53 It might be
resolved through
mediation
55 Candy bar with a
Nordic name
57 Sch. near the
Appomattox
River
58 Noisy bird
59 Chemical suffix
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/07/1610/07/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 7, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Designated drivers are the greatestDon't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     10-11-16-5-14
LOOKING FOR A CAREER?North Florida Retirement Village is holding a Career Fair on Oct. 13th from 9:30am – 12:30pm.  We are hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!  We are seeking:  ● Nurses (RN & LPN)● Assisted Living & Home Care CNAs● Companions● Servers/Kitchen Porters● Cooks● Sous Chefs● Security Guards● Transportation Drivers● Painters Come out to our Career Fair to learn more about our employment opportunities.  We are 
located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL. 32606. Security Guards will direct visi-
tors once on campus. Please apply online at www.thevillageonline.com/careers.    10-13-16-6-14SALES - calling on campus departments 
and GREEK Houses. Recieve 10% com-
mission selling logo merchandise w 
our catalogs & website 330 886 8398 PromoProductsASAP@gmail.com    10-7-16-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305      10-7-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
FREE RIDE FOR CO-DRIVER
to Wrightsville Beach, N.C. or other point en route. Leave Gville Oct 13, return Oct 16. Call 352-294-3937, leave message.    10-11-5-23
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SMALL BLACK DOG MISSING LOST ON SW 20TH AVENUE IN KENSINGTON NORTH BLACK SHIHZU PLEASE CALL 352-213-1694 WITH INFO   10-13-16-5-25
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Athletics director Jeremy Foley 
announced Thursday that the Florida football team would not play LSU on Saturday. For more details, turn to the back page. T ennis competes at ITA All-American Championships
Both the Florida men's and women's tennis teams competed in the ITA 
All-American Championships on Thursday, with competition scheduled all weekend long. For updates on UF's play, visit alligator.org/sports.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer 
With Florida’s season open -
er less than a month away, 
sports writers Ray Boone and Matt Brannon break down the Florida team position-by-position in a two-part series. 
In part two, we take a look at 
UF’s backcourt.
Kasey Hill / 6-foot-1 / 175 
lbs / Guard / Senior 
Kasey Hill 
began his ca
-
reer at Florida with a trip to the Final Four. 
And if the 
Gators are go
-
ing to make it back in his final season, 
they’ll need his help. 
Hill started 17 games last 
season, and when he’s on the court, the ball goes through him. 
The senior had the high
-
est usage of any guard on the team in 2015-16. 
Hill averaged 9.1 points on 
39.1 percent shooting in his junior season. 
He made his living off the 
drive, using an explosive first step to beat defenders to the rim. 
But you probably won’t find him sniping beyond the arc. 
Hill had one of the lower 
three-point percentages among Florida's guards, shooting just 29.7 percent from three last season. 
Shooting mechanics have 
also been an issue for Hill, and  in more ways than one. 
For someone who spends a 
lot of extra time in the gym, Hill’s struggled to hit free throws consistently, averaging 53.8 percent from the stripe last season.
But Hill’s motor makes him 
a reliable perimeter defender. 
He defended Ole Miss star 
guard Stefan Moody for a large portion of Florida’s Jan. 16 matchup with the Rebels, and held Moody to 3-of-10 shoot
-
ing from behind the arc and six turnovers. 
Look for Hill to slash to the 
basket and lead the offense as an upperclassman as he tries 
to finish his career on a high 
note. 
Chris Chiozza / 6-foot / 
176 lbs / Guard / Junior
Chiozza  
split the start
-
ing point guard duties with Hill in 2015-16. 
He started 
22 games and was called on to facilitate Flor
-
ida’s offense. 
As a sophomore, Chiozza 
led the Gators with 4.3 assists per game and finished sixth in the Southeastern Confer
-
ence in assist-to-turnover ratio (2.4).
Chiozza displayed excep
-
tional court vision last sea -
son, evidenced by four career games with eight assists and one or no turnovers. 
And Chiozza’s no slouch 
when it comes to scoring, ei
-
ther.
He put up 7.2 points per 
game on 34.4 percent shoot -
ing while averaging 32 percent from three, best out of any Gators guard last season. 
Fans of Chiozza’s should 
mark Dec. 29 on their calen
-
dar, when Florida visits Ar -
kansas. 
The point guard notched a 
season-high 17 points against the Razorbacks last year, go
-
ing 8-for-10 from the free-throw line. 
Chiozza and Hill both aver
-
aged 23.8 minutes per game last season. 
But with Hill leaving af
-
ter the season, fans could see coach Mike White heap
-
ing more responsibility onto the shoulders of the younger guard. KeVaughn Allen / 6-foot-
2 / 183 lbs / Guard / Sopho
-
more
Instant of -
fense. Volume scorer. 
Deceptively 
efficient. 
KeVaughn  
Allen be
-
came one of Florida’s piv
-
otal players 
as a freshman last season and showed no signs of slowing down. 
Allen averaged more points 
per game than any guard with 11.6 in 2015-16. 
In addition, he returns with 
a 39.9 field-goal percentage —the best of any Florida guard. 
If you want to see just how 
good he can be, take a look at his performance against Florida 
State in December: 32 points, 
3-of-7 from three and a perfect 9-of-9 at the free-throw line. 
He finished second among 
all the team's guards in three-point percentage, led the team in free-throw percentage and had about half the turnovers of 
the other starting guards. 
After being named to the 
2016 SEC All-Freshman Team, 
Allen’s opened the door to high expectations for his sophomore season. Breaking down UF basketball: Backcourt edition
 FIVE QUESTIONS YOU 
MAY HAVE ABOUT UF'S 
CANCELLED FOOTBALL 
GAME VS. LSU.
1. Will the game be 
rescheduled?
UF athletics director Jeremy 
Foley said UF is “100 percent 
committed to whatever scenario (the SEC) can come up with, ” but as of now, the game has not been rescheduled. 
2. Can I refund my tickets?
You can apply to have your 
ticket refunded, but refunds 
are not being guaranteed at this time. Contact the UAA Box Office to submit a request for a refunded ticket at 352-375-4683.
3. Why wasn’t the game moved 
to LSU?
UF athletics director Foley 
said it would’ve been nearly 
impossible to make last-minute travel arrangements, adding that moving the game to Louisiana wasn’t “in the best interest of safety. ”
4. Could it have been played 
anywhere else?
Foley said the only locations 
discussed were Gainesville and 
Baton Rouge. Nothing else was considered.
5. What kind of affect will 
the Hurricane Matthew have on the O’Connell Center construction?
Foley said there’s “no 
question that the construction 
site could be impacted, ” but they will worry about any potential destruction after the hurricane passes. The O’Connell Center was set to be finished Dec. 15.LSU FAQ’s
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kasey Hill, left, talks with center John Egbunu during Florida's 104-54 win over North Carolina A&T last season in the O'Connell Center.
Chiozza
Hill
Allen
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
With last year’s leader in 
points and minutes, Dorian 
Finney-Smith, in the NBA, Allen could be the next man up. 
After starting 34 games at 
shooting guard his freshman season, Allen’s already earned coach White’s trust. 
Now with one year of experi
-
ence under his belt, Allen could finish the season as the guy ev
-
eryone can count on to take the 
buzzer beater. 
Canyon Barry / 6-foot-6 / 
215 lbs / Guard / Graduate Transfer
No transfer 
has garnered 
more attention 
than Canyon Barry this off
-
season. 
Son of NBA 
Hall of Famer Rick Barry, the 
graduate student gets a lot of attention for his dad’s on-court 
success.
 But Canyon Barry  isn't coast
-ing on his old man’s reputation. 
The kid can score. At one point last season, Bar
-
ry was averaging 28 points per 
game, second best in the nation. 
Last season while attending the 
College of Charleston in South 
Carolina, Barry finished the year 
by leading his conference in 
scoring. 
A shoulder injury halfway 
through last season sidelined him, but be ready to watch the 
threes rain down if he’s back to 
his old self.
 In 2014-15, Barry was a 
sharpshooter, averaging 36.8 
percent from three-point range — a percentage that would’ve 
been second-best on the team 
for Florida last year. 
The 6-foot-6 guard relies 
on more than just his size and 
skills, though. 
A nuclear engineering major, 
Barry is a problem solver on the 
court. 
Not afraid to think outside the 
box, Barry shoots free-throws underhanded. 
That’s right, “granny style.” And he managed to shoot an 
impressive 84.5 percent last sea
-son doing it.
But the biggest problem Barry 
will face this season is scoring against a heightened level of 
competition. 
However, in Finney-Smith’s 
absence, Florida could use a 
high volume scorer on the wing to make things interesting. 
Eric Hester / 6-foot-3 / 167 
lbs / Guard / Freshman
Hester was 
the first player 
to commit to 
Florida when coach Mike White took over. And he 
wasn’t easy to 
get. 
Hester had offers from Lou
-
isville and other schools with quality basketball programs, but this spurned all of them for the 
Florida Gators. 
Out of Clearwater, Florida, 
Hester helped lead Oldsmar 
Christian to second place at the 
Sunshine Independent Athletic 
Association’s state champion
-
ship. Hester is built to disrupt on 
defense. 
His 6-foot-10 wingspan and 
energy give him the tools to be a lockdown perimeter defender. 
Hester is well-suited to play 
in coach White’s press-oriented defensive scheme and will get a chance to improve his game on offense. 
“Coach White recruited me 
here because they thought I was one of the best defenders in my high-school class,” Hester told FloridaGators.com. 
“So I’m going to bring that 
intensity on defense and try to build my offensive game.”
Jalen Hudson / 6-foot-
6 / 190 lbs / Guard / Junior 
Transfer
Florida’s fi -
nal new face 
at guard comes 
from the same 
high school as 
LeBron James. 
After gradu -
ating from his old stomping 
grounds at St. Vincent-St. Mary in Akron, Ohio, Jalen Hudson enrolled at Virginia Tech in 2014. 
He averaged 8.4 points per 
game with the Hokies a season ago.
But he brings something the 
Gators and every team could use 
more of: efficient scoring. 
As a sophomore, Hudson shot 
50 percent or better from the 
field in 14 games. 
He can score with volume, 
too. 
The guard had three 20-point 
performances in his second sea
-
son. 
Unfortunately for the Gators, 
that scoring will have to wait. 
Due to NCAA transfer rules, he’ll 
have to sit out for the 2016-17 season. 
But Hudson is poised in his 
patience. 
“I believe in what coach White 
is building,” Hudson told ESPN. 
“I think Florida gives me a 
great opportunity to perform at a high level, win at a high level and ultimately pursue my dreams in playing in the NBA.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 14Barry averaged 36.8 percent from three-point range in 14-15By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
In the 67th minute, senior 
Brooke Sharp lofted a ball to se-
nior Savannah Jordan in front of 
Georgia’s box. 
Surrounded by three defend-
ers, Jordan took possession and 
shot from 10 yards out, putting 
the Gators up 3-0 and giving Jor-
dan her second goal of the game.”
And behind her team's second-
half offensive performance, the No. 16 Gators (9-3, 4-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) cruised past the 
Bulldogs (3-9-1, 0-6 SEC) with a 3-1 win, securing their third-straight SEC win of the season on 
Thursday.
The win marked just the sec-
ond time this season that Florida 
has won three consecutive games.
“We want to be a team who 
plays for each other, and I think you’re starting to see more and more of that,” UF coach Becky 
Burleigh said. “I am really happy 
because I think that’s something that’s going to pay dividends as we continue the season.”
But the Gators' trend of start-
ing slow on offense continued.
Florida wasn’t able to get on 
the board until three minutes be-fore the half.
In the 43rd minute, sophomore 
Rachelle Smith sprinted from midfield to the corner of the field 
and fed the ball to senior Meggie 
Dougherty Howard. 
Dougherty Howard spun be-
tween between two defenders and hit inside the right side of the net from seven yards away, putting 
the Gators up 1-0 going into half-
time.
It was her fifth goal of the sea-
son.
“It was good for us to get one 
going into halftime just because we had really been putting the pressure on them so it was good for us to get rewarded with a 
goal,” Dougherty Howard said. “It 
was a really good team goal. We had really good buildup and then I saw space so I ran into it and Rachelle hit me an awesome ball.”
Jordan’s first goal came in the 
50th minute off a penalty kick af-ter Georgia defender Caroline Wa-ter’s hand blocked her shot.
And a few minutes later, she 
picked up the 75th goal of her ca-reer and her 10th on the season.
“Georgia came out really hard. 
They’re a good team,” said Jor-
dan, who scored twice Thursday. 
“Defensively, I think they were pretty prepared to play us. But our team did a really good job of keep-
ing the ball, keeping possession, 
doing what we are good at.”
Jordan is now just 21 goals 
away from Florida’s all-time ca-reer goal leader Abby Wambach, 
who had 96. 
The senior also took a team-
high 10 shots in the game.
Now the Gators look to Sun-
day, when they travel to Oxford, 
Mississippi to take on Ole Miss.
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgJordan jolts Florida to third-straight conference win
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Savannah Jordan (7) dribbles the ball while being defended by an Iowa State player during Florida's  5-2 
win over ISU on Aug. 19 at James G. Pressly Stadium.
Hester
Hudson
Barry
16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
By Alligator Staff
We all know the Florida foot-
ball game this Saturday was post-
poned because of Hurricane Mat-thew. 
But before the two schools 
and the Southeastern Conference came to that agreement, some stipulations were in place to en-sure that game would be played in the case of ﬂ  ooding.
We here at alligatorSports re-
ceived an advance, never-before-seen copy of those rules, and be-cause we’re so committed to our readers, we’ve decided to share it with our audience in an Alligator exclusive, in its original form:
Rule No. 1: Because of the 
ﬂ  ooding, all football players must wear ﬂ  oaties on each arm. Size of the ﬂ  oaties must be no larger than 8 inches in diameter and only two are permitted per player. 
Rule No. 2: The popping of 
another player’s ﬂ  oatie is deemed a safety hazard and will lead to the automatic disqualiﬁ  cation of the popper in question. To en-sure no ﬂ  oaties are damaged, all tackles for Saturday’s game must be made below the waist. Except on quarterbacks, who are not al-lowed to be tackled at all.
Rule No. 3: Because the ﬁ  eld 
goal kickers will have no solid ground to kick off of, all kicks must be placed on the chests of the respective team’s equipment managers, who must lay face up while the place kickers attempt kickoffs and ﬁ  eld goals. Equip-ment managers must also wear ﬂ  oaties.Rule No. 4: In addition to 
the point-after attempt and the 
2-point conversion, there will 
also be a 3-point conversion op-
tion for Saturday’s game. The team that decides to attempt a 3-point conversion must pick one 
player from its team to challenge 
another player on the oppos-
ing team to a 100-yard freestyle race across the ﬁ  eld. Both play-ers must be hand-selected by the 
head coaches and must be on the 
active roster. If the team who originally tried the three-point conversion wins, that team earns three points. If that team loses, the other team receives the three points.
Rule No. 5: Because Jim McEl-
wain’s spirit animal is a beaver, he inherently has an unfair ad-vantage over LSU’s coach Ed Orgeron — whose spirit animal is silverback gorilla — in the case of a ﬂ  ood. Therefore, McElwain is disqualiﬁ  ed.
Debating this week’s match-
up between Old Dominion and UMass are sports editor Ian Co-hen and assistant sports editor Ethan Bauer. 
UMass (+7.5) will win be-
cause… 
Massachusetts has lost four of 
its last ﬁ  ve games, four of which have been at home, and are fac-ing an Old Dominion team that has won two-straight games. But they don’t call Massachusetts the Minutemen for nothing! 
Wait, why do they call them the Minutemen?
-Ian Cohen
Old Dominion (-7.5) will 
win because… 
Apparently Old Dominion’s 
team name is the Monarchs 
(don’t worry Ian — not the but-terﬂ  y kind), as in kings or rul-
ers. They’ll square off with the 
Massachusetts Minutemen in a 
rematch of the original rivalry game: The American Revolution. And this time, the red coats — 
even though their uniforms are 
blue, while UMass’ are red — will 
come out with a victory out of vengeance alone. 
-Ethan Bauer
Now onto the picks!We have a two-way tie for ﬁ  rst 
place with a 22-18 record.
First is alligatorSports editor 
Ian “I’m Apprehensive” Cohen, 
who refuses to come to terms with his massive fear of butter-
ﬂ  ies, even though he has to go to 
a butterﬂ  y garden for a class as-
signment. 
We get it, Ian, it’s intimidating 
when you can’t see all those col-
ors, and things that make people 
happy just scare you. But, c’mon. 
They’re butterﬂ  ies, not dino-
saurs. 
Joining Ian at the top of the 
leaderboard is the Orlando Sen-
tinel’s Edgar “The Decision” Thompson, who compared Flori-da’s struggle to decide on a time to announce the fate of its foot-ball game this weekend to LeBron 
James’ “Decision” in 2009. 
And like James, Hurricane 
Matthew also decided to take its 
talents to South Beach.
In third place with a 20-20 re-
cord is the Gainesville Sun’s Gra-ham “My cat loves me” Hall, who is convinced that his foster kit-ten adores him despite the fresh 
scratch marks across his neck. 
Trust us, Graham. 
After emptying the sixth box of 
band-aids, you’ll come to terms with the fact that the only love your cat has for you is when you clean its litter box.
Joining Graham in third place 
is GatorCountry’s Nick “weath-erman” De La Torre, who asked Florida cornerback Quincy Wilson on Tuesday if he knew anything about the impending hurricane. Wilson replied no, to which Nick insinuated that Wilson shouldn’t take up meteorology any time soon. 
Wilson’s just trying to play 
football, Nick. Leave the kid alone. By the way, you prob-ably should stock up on “Just For Men” before the hurricane hits, because you may not be able to make it to the store anytime soon. 
Don’t want that hair to turn 
grey before Monday’s press con-ference.
Sitting in ﬁ  fth place with an 
18-22 record is assistant sports editor Ethan “It’ll be ﬁ  ne, man” Bauer, who tried to convince Ian Cohen that he would pass his law exam on Thursday despite the 
very small amount of time Ian 
spent studying for it. No, Ethan. 
It wasn’t ﬁ  ne.
Joining Ethan in ﬁ  fth place is 
247sports.com’s Thomas “I don’t 
know, text me or something” 
Goldkamp, who gave that exact response when he was invited out for drinks the other night. I 
know we’re not your ideal friend 
group, but it’s OK to step away from your recruiting rankings for one night, Thomas. 
That four-star prospect’s wing-
span will still be there in the morning.
In seventh place with a 17-
23 record is sports writer Jordan “I got a stat wrong for the ﬁ  rst time ever“ McPherson, who in-correctly suggested to linebacker Alex Anzalone at football media on Monday that Anzalone didn’t play against LSU as a sophomore in 2014. 
Anzalone was quick to correct 
him, and thus ended McPherson’s historic and unprecedented run of 21 years without a fact error.
And in dead-ass-last with a 
piss-poor record of 16-24 is Pat-rick “I’ll take a Bud Light” Pinak, who ordered that same beverage when he visited one of Knox-ville’s best breweries the other week for Florida’s game against Tennessee. 
I like drinking tasteless, crap-
py beer as much as the next guy, but c’mon man. Get cultured.
alligatorSports Picks Column: Cancelled game editionFRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer 
Florida’s football game against 
LSU has been postponed. 
Both schools conﬁ  rmed Thurs-
day afternoon that the game won’t 
take place this weekend because of 
Hurricane Matthew. UF said it will 
work with LSU and the Southeast-ern Conference to reschedule the game if possible. 
“People’s safety is what mat-
ters,” Florida athletics director Jer-emy Foley said, “and that’s why the decision was made.”
Foley said the schools have 
been communicating with the SEC since Tuesday and added that, on Wednesday, all sides thought the 
game would be played.
“And then, as we all know, the 
storm — even late (Thursday) af-
ternoon — took a turn,” Foley said.
As a result of changes in Hur-
ricane Matthew’s forecast, Foley said it was logistically impossible to play the game in Gainesville. He said police and emergency per-
sonnel informed him that their re-sources were needed elsewhere.
“Obviously you cannot play a 
game under those circumstances,” he said, “nor would you want to.”
Foley also conﬁ  rmed rumors 
that LSU had offered to host the 
game, but he cited the same logis-tical concerns. 
Putting together a trip to Baton 
Rouge in a day and a half would “not be in the best interest of safety, not in the best interest of 
people that would be involved in 
that trip,” he said. 
He added that holding the 
game somewhere other than Baton Rouge or Gainesville was never discussed. 
Foley didn’t provide speciﬁ  cs 
about where or if the game would be rescheduled. 
However, he said UF is com-
mitted to working with the SEC to reschedule the game. 
“Whatever scenario (the SEC) 
comes up with,” Foley said, “we’re gonna be in favor of.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org Hurricane forces UF to postpone football game with LSU
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
UF athletics director Jeremy Foley addresses reporters on Thursday regarding Florida’s postponed 
football game. “People’s safety is what matters, and that’s why the decision was made, ” Foley said.
INSIDE
Alex Anzalone has battled through season-ending injuries and failed expectations. 
Now, healthy for the first time in over a year, he isn’t holding anything back.  
ONLINE
For additional coverage of the Florida football team, visit alligator.org/sports and follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports.
A LONG TIME
COMINGKICK OFF
Editor Ian Cohen  Photos for Cover Illustration Emily Cochrane
Alligator, Friday, October 7, 2016
By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Alex stands at the 46-yard line during 
Florida’s season opener against Massachu-
setts, the first live game he’s played in al-most a year.
In the second quarter of a tied ballgame, 
the linebacker’s eyes fix on UMass quarter-back Ross Comis. Anzalone crouches 3 yards from the line of scrimmage, his hands close to his knees.
Anzalone’s stance tips his hand: He’s go-
ing to blitz.
Comis plants his foot in the rain-damp-
ened grass. Anzalone raises his right hand and inches forward. Comis takes the snap. 
Anzalone charges ahead. 
The quarterback drops back and scans his 
options down the field while the linebacker 
rushes through the middle of the trenches unscathed, no offensive linemen blocking his path.
By the time Comis rotates his arm forward 
and releases the ball, Anzalone is already in the air and in the quarterback’s face. 
Anzalone swats the pass to the ground 
and then shouts as he extends his arms out-ward.
“It’s been a long time coming,” Anzalone 
said after the game, a sense of relief washed over him.
And with the Gators at the halfway point 
of the regular season and Anzalone already racking up career-best marks in nearly ev-ery category possible, the former high school star from a small town in Pennsylvania does not plan on slowing down in a make-or-break season for the redshirt junior.
Not after the way his first three years 
played out.
Not with the lack of depth Florida has at 
linebacker.
And not with the expectations he has yet 
to fulfill since arriving in Gainesville.
‘He doesn’t hold anything back’At 6-foot-3 and 241 pounds, Anzalone has 
the size of the prototypical linebacker. 
But with cascading blond hair that he 
hasn’t trimmed in two years flowing down to his shoulders, the 21-year-old is a real-life Thor when he puts on his jersey and shoul-der pads. 
But he doesn’t need a hammer made from 
the Asgardian metal uru to obtain the brute strength to bring opposing running backs and quarterbacks to the ground. He does that easily enough with his bare hands.
“It’s definitely intimidating,” said Justin 
Causa, a high school teammate and child-hood friend of Anzalone’s.
But Anzalone’s superhuman looks aren’t 
the only thing opponents should fear when he charges full speed at them.
He knows the game. He anticipates where 
each play is going before it even begins, information he passes to his teammates by 
combining a slew of code words that trans-
late to an in-game audible.
“He gives us all the calls, lines us up,” UF 
defensive lineman Taven Bryan said. “He’s quick, he’s snappy.”
He flies to the ball, bouncing past offen-
sive linemen when he’s rushing the quarter-back or sprinting to the sidelines when he’s chasing down a running back off the edge.
And then, when he firmly has his oppo-
nent in his grasp, Anzalone pummels him to the ground, celebrates for a quick moment and then returns to the huddle for the next play.
“He doesn’t hold anything back,” said UF 
linebacker Jarrad Davis. 
“He lets everything go, and that’s what 
we want from our teammates, what I want 
from a linebacker playing with me.”
Championship mentality
A perfect senior high school season 
hinged on one play.
Wyomissing Area High faced Imhotep 
Charter in the 2012 Pennsylvania Class 2A state semifinals, with Anzalone’s Wyomiss-ing team coming in as the heavy underdog.
Late in the game, Anzalone and his Wyo-
missing defense were pressed back to their own goal line. Imhotep Charter turned to its 
running back, South Carolina commit David 
Williams, to surge into the end zone.
Thud.
“Alex just lit him up,” Wyomissing coach 
Bob Wolfrum recalled. “The whole place just 
went crazy.” 
Wyomissing won the game 35-13. One 
week later, the Spartans gutted out a 17-14 victory over Aliquippa for the school’s first state championship. 
Anzalone would end up being named the area’s small school player of the year.
“He just always seemed to come up with 
the big play,” Wolfrum said, “especially when the chips were down.”
One month after hoisting the state title, 
Anzalone, the fourth-ranked outside line-backer in the 2013 recruiting class according 
to 247sports.com, flipped his college com-
mitment from Notre Dame to UF and en-rolled early in Gainesville. 
It was the conclusion of a three-year jour-
ney, one that saw him evolve from an under-sized-yet-capable linebacker when he joined the Wyomissing team as a sophomore to a blue-chip prospect. 
He worked with a nutritionist the sum-
mer before his junior year to gain close to 60 pounds in three months and began to look like a college football player.
By his senior year, he had 30 Football 
Bowl Subdivision programs begging him to join their team. 
He held offers from home state schools 
such as Penn State and Temple to perennial college football powerhouses in Alabama, 
Florida, Ohio State and Notre Dame.
“He was very well respected,” Wolfrum 
said. “It wasn’t just because he was a good 
football player, but also because of how dedicated he was to making himself bigger, faster and stronger.”
Off the field, though, Anzalone remained 
reserved, Wolfrum said. 
The linebacker’s voice is quiet when he 
talks, if he talks at all. He’s the antithesis of what one would expect from someone who plays as ferociously as he does in the game. 
He doesn’t bask in the glory or praise 
himself whenever he receives an accolade or sets a career high.
“He wasn’t the loud guy you might expect 
out of the big high school star that had Di-vision I coaches flying in to see him all the 
time,” Wolfrum said.
And now, he has gone from playing foot-
ball in a town with a population of about 
10,500 to playing for a Southeastern Confer-
ence school with home games in a stadium 
that comfortably seats eight times that popu-lation.
“He’s always been dedicated to being the 
best that he can be,” Causa said. 
“He never took his mind off of that ever 
since high school. He knew he wanted to play at the biggest level he could play.”
Bittersweet startAnzalone’s junior year at UF was sup-
posed to be the breakout season.
He led the defense throughout Spring 
camp. He started middle linebacker. He called the shots.
“There was debate that he might be one 
of the best players on our football team,” UF 
defensive coordinator Geoff Collins said.
He played in two games. A shoulder in-
jury against East Carolina on Sept. 12, 2015, 
relegated him to the sideline for the rest of the season and forced him to be a spectator for Florida’s newfound success under first-year head coach Jim McElwain.
Ten wins. An SEC East title. A resurgence 
in the fan base.
All Anzalone could do was watch.McElwain and the training staff shut him 
down for the final 12 games. They took the slow-and-steady route with Anzalone’s re-hab — the “duct tape instead of Gorilla glue” approach, as McElwain prefers to call it.
“Last year was pretty tough for me and 
just kinda bittersweet,” Anzalone said. 
But it wasn’t just last season.
He battled a lingering shoulder injury dur-
ing his freshman season as well, limiting him 
to special teams duties.
The next year, he faced a battle to climb 
the depth chart as a sophomore once he was healthy. He didn’t win. 
All in all, he had 22 tackles in his first 23 
games.
With time to reflect last season, Anza-
lone decided to make an impact behind the scenes.
He remained active in practice, in the film 
room, in position meetings. 
“He just always stayed positive,” said de-
fensive lineman Joey Ivie, Anzalone’s room-mate last season. 
“He just knew that he was going to come 
back and be OK.”
His presence permeated to the rest of his 
teammates, veterans and freshmen alike. He pushed Davis, his replacement in the starting lineup, to improve. 
He spoke with the team during timeouts 
and in between quarters during games, giv-
ing them an extra perspective on what the 
offense was doing against them.
“Anzalone has such great respect from his teammates, such great respect from his coaches,” Collins said.  “They embraced him 
and listened to him and kind of were urged on (by) him.
“He makes the people around him better.”
‘He’s on a whole ‘nother level’
Late in the first quarter of UF’s season 
opener against UMass, Anzalone fell to the ground after attempting a routine tackle.
The announced crowd of 88,121 held its 
breath as trainers tended to him, fearing the worst happened yet again.
After a brief moment, Anzalone got up on 
his feet and trotted off the field. He returned two plays later.
“It was just a little boo-boo,” Anzalone 
said after the game, following with a quick laugh.
He finished that game with six tackles and 
his first sack, and he kept rolling from there. Five games into the season, Anzalone has 
a team-best four quarterback hurries and is 
second on the team with 32 tackles. 
He also has 2.5 sacks and a pair of pass 
breakups.
“He’s on a whole ‘nother level,” Davis 
said. “A whole ‘nother level. … He’s seeing everything a lot clearer. He’s taking care of everything.”Yet Anzalone quietly undersold the value 
of his performance, of his return, of the start of what has now become his potential break-through. 
“It’s nothing I haven’t come back from 
before,” Anzalone said. “I was just trying to know what to expect.”
Davis interjected.“He was ready,” Davis said. “He was 
ready.”
“Yeah,” Anzalone responded. “I was 
ready.”
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org SOMETHING TO PROVE  
Anzalone making his time at UF count
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Alex Anzalone motions to the crowd during UF’s 13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Oct. 1 in Nashville. “He doesn’t hold anything back, ” UF 
linebacker Jarrad Davis said. “He lets everything go, and that’s what we want from our teammates. ”
2016 (so far) • 16 solo tackles
• 16 assisted tackles
• 2.5 tackles for loss
• 2.5 sacks
• 2 passes broken up
• 4 QB hurries
2015• 2 solo tackles
• 4 assisted tackles
• Suffered season-ending injury on Sept. 122014• 6 solo tackles
• 8 assisted tackles
• 1 tackle for loss
2013• 2 solo tackles
• Suffered season ending injury on Nov. 23ALEX ANZALONE AT FLORIDA
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Alex Anzalone scans the field during Florida’s 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Sept. 24 at Neyland Stadium in Knoxville, T ennessee. 