We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 166 THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
Four questions for Florida football
Fall practice starts next week, pg. 17
Marijuana dispensary in Tallahassee opens
Alachua County companies may follow, pg. 5
Dairy Queen supports children’s hospital
Miracle Treat Day is today, pg. 8Connect with us
Visit alligator.org or @thealligator on Twitter
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
UF reached new heights in both technol-
ogy licensing and donations this year, receiv-
ing $402 million in donations and submitting 
122 licenses.
Last year, UF received $315 million in do-
nations (which increased about 28 percent) 
and submitted 85 licenses (which increased about 44 percent), according to two press re-leases. 
When David Day ﬁ  rst started at the uni-
versity’s Ofﬁ  ce of Technology Licensing 15 
years ago, there were only 25 licenses is-
sued, he said. Day is now the ofﬁ  ce’s assis-
tant vice president. 
Day said the school has developed medi-
cines, software and other products, includ-
ing perhaps the most recognizable invention: Gatorade.
“It’s not important how many deals are 
made or how many make it to market place,” 
he said. “What matters is helping people’s 
lives for the Gator good.”
As for donations, the increase resulted 
from strong leadership and UF’s drive for re-search, said Joe Mandernach, the senior as-
sociate vice president and chief development 
ofﬁ  cer of the ofﬁ  ce.
He said some of the money will be used 
to support faculty and students, making sure qualiﬁ  ed people are offered a salary or schol-arships. 
The money will also be used for new proj-
ects, Mandernach said, including the recent 
$10 million donation UF alumnus Joseph 
Hernandez gave to the chemistry depart-ment.
“People will invest where they see a vi-
sion and believe there’s a leadership that’s 
going to be able to drive and impact and do 
what you say you’re going to be able to do,” he said. 
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.org UF announces record-breaking year 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer 
During Tuesday’s Student Sen-
ate meeting, the Student Senate 
unanimously approved nine bills 
that will put nine amendments to the constitution on the Spring 2017 ballot, including one for on-
line voting. 
The amendments were previ-
ously voted on in past elections 
but the recent Supreme Court 
decision, “Interpretation of The 
University of Florida Constitu-tion: Section 4 Article VIII,” re-moved them June 25.
The amendments were re-
moved because they didn’t meet a 60 percent vote of approval. The ruling said students who 
don’t vote for a certain amend-
ment while ﬁ  lling out a ballot will be counted as being against the amendment. 
One of the biggest criticisms 
the Supreme Court received was 
its decision to remove online vot-
ing from the constitution. How-ever, with the passing of the Online 
voting  to resurface
OTHER AMENDMENTS 
WILL BE ON THE BALLOT. STUDENT GOVERNMENT
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
Authorities arrested a Gainesville man Wednes-
day evening after they said he robbed the Cam-
pus USA Credit Union on Archer Road, causing a multi-agency manhunt and leaving some residents blocked from their homes. 
At about 1:40 p.m., William Rossignol, 31, 
showed the bank teller what looked like a hand-gun, Gainesville Police spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said. Rossignol is suspected of robbing a Wells Far-
go bank July 20, and Tobias arrested him Nov. 4, 2015, for stealing an iPad from a room at GPD headquarters, according to multiple press releases.
Rossignol then drove a stolen Honda Accord at 
about 100 mph before parking at Lexington Cross-ing Apartments and running, Tobias wrote in an email. 
The complex was blocked for about six hours. “We know that he’s a drug user; we know that 
he’s desperate,” Tobias said during the search.
Ce’Ara Anderson, who lives in one of the blocked search areas, said her young niece was home.
“They told me that it’s not safe for me to go 
home, so I don’t think it’s safe for her to be at 
home,” she said.
As the search began to end at about 8 p.m., 
Rossignol was seen at the intersection of South-
west 31st Drive and 41st Place, he wrote. 
Authorities arrested Rossignol on charges of 
grand theft auto, robbery and ﬂ  eeing. They took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains without bond.  Suspect in multiple bank robberies arrested Some credit leadership, drive
SEE SENATE,  PAGE 4
 Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
FUN IN THE SUN
Anton Dolling, 19, a UF linguistics and Spanish sophomore, jousts Pride 
Student Union President Carolyna Guillen, 21, during a PSU social event on Wednesday afternoon. Guillen said the social served to meet new members and “attract members to the Rainbow Suite (LGBT Affairs). ” 
CRIMESubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  97° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or 
fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 166
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve waterTICK.TOCK.THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Daniel Hopin
Alligator Contributing Writer
An online cancer prevention 
course sponsored by the Florida De-
partment of Health is struggling to enroll students.  
The course, called “Take Control 
to Reduce Your Cancer Risk,” was first offered in April 2015 for a $20 fee, said Dr. Linda Bobroff, a certi-fied nutritionist and the UF professor who designed the course.
After less-than-stellar enrollment 
numbers, the course was made free in March 2016. However, Bobroff said only 75 to 100 people have signed up so far.
Bobroff said she originally de-
signed the course in the early ’90s as a way to raise awareness of lifestyles and behaviors that can be changed to reduce the risk of getting different cancers.   
The program was stopped af-
ter the price of photocopying and stamps became too high. Bobroff said she revived the course when 
the rise of online learning had once 
again made it relatively easy and cheap to set up a new class.  
“All this information was out there,” Bobroff said, “but it wasn’t a curriculum that motivated people and informed people and empow-
ered people to make actual behavior 
changes.”
After the course was opened, Bo-
broff said in order to make the ma-terial available to more low-income citizens and increase enrollment, the course became free the following year.  
Although Bobroff said this change 
has not helped to dramatically in-crease enrollment, she is hopeful that through social media and word of mouth the program will eventual-ly be used by people internationally. 
“I’m just hoping it will take off,” 
Bobroff said. “It can have worldwide 
exposure. Anyone can take this class 
who can read English.”  
Since the course is online, Bo-
broff said she hopes to update the material periodically with new infor-mation and breakthroughs as they occur.    
UF professor Dr. Scott Tomar is 
a dentist who worked with Bobroff 
on the course by reviewing it for ac-
curacy and accessibility.  
“It essentially takes what we 
know from scientific literature and puts it into a format and structure that makes it much more user-friendly,” Tomar said.  
Despite the small number of peo-
ple who registered for the course, Tomar said he is optimistic about the future of stopping preventable cancer. 
“We are already seeing decreases 
in several of the major forms of can-cer, particularly lung cancer, which is almost entirely due to behavioral 
changes in the population,” he said. 
More information about the 
course can be found at tinyurl.com/
takecontrolUF.
Professor hopes to gain traction for online health class4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
“Amendment to Student Body Consti-
tution Article VI” bill, online voting will be back on the ballot in Spring 
2017.
During the public debate, Ben 
Duong, a 21-year-old UF microbiol-
ogy and political science senior, said 
students will not read through nine 
lengthy amendments, which will cause them to fail.
Instead, he said the Student Senate 
could make amendments for online 
voting and anti-discrimination to pass 
them into law.
“This Student Government Body 
has elected to compile three of the 
UF Supreme Court rejected amend-
ments into a single amendment for the Spring 2017 ballot, to be voted upon alongside eight other amendments,” he said. “This will serve to do nothing 
more than bury online voting.”
Chase Werther, a 19-year-old UF 
philosophy sophomore, shared a simi-lar opinion.
Werther said the time it took stu-
dents to vote in past elections was 
only two minutes, and voter turnout was still low.
She said more amendments will 
cause the rate to be even lower.
“If we combine this with the Su-
preme Court’s decision to count those 
who don’t vote on a referendum as 
people who actually voted, we will be sending online voting on a suicide mission,” Werther said.
Several other amendments include an update on the UF anti-discrimi-
nation policy, the option to decrease 
Student Senate members in Fall and Spring from 60 maximum to 50 maxi-mum, a change of the start date for 
Summer Replacement Senator nomi-
nations, and the option to make the Head of Departments’ terms to expire at the same time as the elected execu-tive ofﬁ  cials.
Other amendments would change 
the responsibilities of the Student Hon-or Court Chancellor, a position that no longer exists, to the Chief Justice and 
Elections Commissions, while striking 
any references to Student Honor Court from the Constitution. 
Students can ﬁ  nd the full bills on 
the UF SG website by visiting “Re-
sources,” clicking “Senate” and then 
“Bill 2016-1049 to 2016-1054” under the Bills section. 
pfry@alligator.org
@paigexfrySENATE,  from pg. 1The election will take place on Nov. 8
Zachariah Chou / Alligator
Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs speaks 
during Tuesday’s Senate meeting. At the meeting, the Senate unanimously approved bills that will put nine amendments to the constitution on the Spring 2017 ballot, including one for online voting. “This Student Government Body 
has elected to compile three of 
the UF Supreme Court rejected 
amendments into a single 
amendment for the Spring 2017 
ballot, to be voted upon alongside 
eight other amendments. This 
will serve to do nothing more 
than bury online voting.”
Ben Duong
UF studentTHURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Marina Masterson
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Both supporters and opponents 
of medical marijuana agree there is 
a lot of work left to be done in Flori-
da’s budding industry.
The state’s first authorized medi-
cal marijuana dispensary, Trulieve, opened its store Tuesday in Talla-
hassee.
Brady Bauer, a 20-year-old UF 
aerospace engineering senior and 
president of UF’s chapter of the Na-
tional Organization for the Reform 
of Marijuana Laws, said the store’s 
opening is great news.
“Our main goal is to diminish the 
stigma about stoners,” Bauer said. 
He said the low-THC strain being 
sold is safe for children and will lead 
to even more effective legislation. 
Karen Goldstein, the executive di-
rector and founder of Florida’s state chapter of NORML, said the store’s opening shows progress, but it only 
represents a small step forward for 
her organization’s mission to end the prohibition of adult use of mari-
juana.Goldstein said low-THC levels 
will only help a small number of pa-tients, and the state needs to grow 
both its legislation and dispensaries.
“I’d like to see the state have 
regulated adult use of marijuana,” Goldstein said. “Treat it like alco-hol.”
She said her organization is hope-
ful Florida legislators will consider 
the successes of other states, such as 
Colorado, that allow easy access to medical marijuana.
“Making something illegal 
doesn’t regulate it, and it doesn’t 
make it stop,” she said. 
Amendment 2, which would ex-
pand the list of medical conditions 
that qualify a patient for medical 
marijuana, along with the number 
of places it could be purchased, will be on the Nov. 8 ballot.
Calvina Fay, the executive direc-
tor of the Drug Free America Foun-dation, an organization that fights 
the use of illicit drugs and the legal-
ization of marijuana, said a synthetic form of THC (Marinol) is already le-
gal in Florida and on a federal level. 
“We don’t really need a con-stitutional amendment that would 
forever alter our state’s constitution 
and would open the floodgates for 
anyone…to get high with marijuana 
under the guise of medicine,” said 
Calvina Fay in a statement provided by her communications staff.
“It remains to be seen if these dis-
pensaries that are now opening can be properly regulated,” Fay said. 
There are currently five other 
companies growing marijuana and awaiting approval to begin selling, 
according to the Florida Department 
of Health’s website, and two of the 
companies are based in Alachua 
County.
Patients need to be approved by 
one of Florida’s 82 doctors before or-
dering from dispensaries, according 
to DOH. The closest approved doctor is Dr. Justin Davis in Archer, Florida, about 20 minutes from Gainesville.
As for UF Health Shands, the 
hospital will not distribute medical 
marijuana while it remains federally 
illegal, because that could threaten UF’s federal funding, said Rossana 
Passaniti, the hospital’s media rela-
tions coordinator.New FL marijuana dispensary opens 
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer
Extra Life Team Gainesville, 
an organization for gamers dedi-
cated to raising money for the Children’s Miracle Network and UF Health Shands Hospital, is 
hosting a “Pokemon Go”-themed 
event for children this weekend.
Pokewalk for the Kids will 
take place this Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m outside the North Tower atrium at UF Health Shands Hospital.
The main goal is to get locals 
involved with the organization to 
put on more events and recruit 
more people, said Scott Harris, the vice president of Extra Life Team Gainesville.
Anyone can attend, and orga-
nizers will be dropping “lures” to give the kids staying in the hos-pital a chance to catch Pokemon, he said.
Shannon Sproston, a level-10 Team Mystic player, said giving the kids a chance to play has en-couraged her to attend the event 
with her 2-year-old son.
Sproston said she was not 
planning on going until she saw 
organizers would be dropping lures at the hospital.
“It makes the hospital a not-
so-scary place,” she said. “Just to me, as somebody who childhood cancer has affected the family, I 
think it’s important.”
Joe Morales, a level-24 Team 
Valor player, said he hopes the 
event will bring together people who care about Extra Life and lift the spirits of kids in the hospital.
“It’s a great game to bring peo-
ple out, such as myself, and espe-cially for kids that are stuck in the 
hospital to get their mind off what 
they are going through,” he said.
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.orgGroup drops Pokemon 
‘lures’ at hospitalThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Summer ’16: Here we are, dear readers — the end of an era. 
It’s been long, hot, sweaty, rainy, long, hot — did we mention 
hot? It’s crazy how time ﬂ  ies. Five weeks ago, so many of us returned to classes, while many others stepped on campus for the very ﬁ  rst time: so young, fresh, innocent. Now, we’re all stuck between the misery of ﬁ  nals and the perilous hopes of a longer summer, watching what feels like a reprisal of “The Twilight Zone” on the news.
Darts & Laurels
Hey, speaking of Twilight, Kristen Stewart loves her girl-
friend, everybody. Stewart, known best for her role as Bella Swan in the “Twilight” saga, opened up in an interview with Elle magazine about her relationship with ﬁ  lm producer Alicia Cargile. “Right now I’m just really in love with my girlfriend,” Stewart said. “We’ve broken up a couple of times and gotten back together, and this time I was like, ‘Finally, I can feel again.’”
This makes complete sense. Think about it: If you were 
caught between Team Edward and Team Jacob for way too long, emotionally compressed by a slew of drama, teen angst and almost-but-not-really sex, to only then need a self-
absorbed Edward Cullen (#TeamPotter) to save your life by 
turning you into a vampire because you’re dying from giving 
birth to a half-vampire half-human baby, do you think you’d 
be able to feel anything? Most people would still be shitting their pants. 
So we give a laurel to Stewart, for going through vampire 
hell and back and still ﬁ  nding happiness and love in the 
real world. That’s more than a lot of us could say.
Stepping out of “Twilight” and into the Twilight Zone, we 
arrive at the Democratic National Convention. Obviously, it 
doesn’t compare to the acid trip that was the Republicans’ 
convention, but it’s still a little bit of a trip.
There’s a lot of potential for darts & laurel-ing with this 
convention: between the protests, the yuge 3-minute standing ovation for Bernie (Can Hillary beat that? Find out on the next 
episode of “Democrats Ball Z”.). and, of course, Bill Clinton 
miraculously stretching time to a still with a speech that revo-
lutionized the meaning of boredom. But you’ll hear enough 
about it all over the place. We’ll touch on a slightly smaller 
issue regarding the convention: Bill O’Reilly.
O’Reilly decided he was going to be tough on Michelle 
Obama for saying, “I wake up every morning in a house that 
was built by slaves,” during her epic Monday night speech at 
the convention. First off: a laurel to Michelle for keeping it 
real on America’s dark history. But secondly, what problem 
could O’Reilly possibly have with that comment?
Well, O’Reilly explained Tuesday on his show, “Slaves that 
worked there were well-fed and had decent lodgings provided 
by the government, which stopped hiring slave labor in 1802. 
However, the feds did not stop subcontractors from using 
slave labor.”
Sure they were slaves, but they were well-fed and lived 
well and even had help building it! What’s there to complain 
about? Maybe the fact they were slaves in a country that said, “All men were created equal,” while enslaving its black citi-
zens to build the monuments that many now look, and say, 
“We need to make this place great again.”
C’mon Bill, we give you all the darts we have. You’re a 
smart dude; you have a master’s degree from Harvard. Stop pandering to a base you keep ignorant to please your boss-
es and keep the cash ﬂ  owing.
You’re sucking the intelligence and empathy out of this 
country’s poor neck — almost like a “Twilight” vampire. 
Wait… Is Bill O’Reilly a vampire?
Column
A plea to bring back the old Stephen Colbert
Throughout high school, I spent my 
weekday mornings watching “The Daily Show” and “The Colbert Re-
port” before having to catch the bus 
for school. As the complexity of class-
es increased, so did the need for a working knowledge of the world around me. But ei-
ther traditional news shows were too biased, 
or analysis on economic policy was followed by the latest fashion trends. So, like many teens, I felt the best way to catch up on current events was to watch satirized segments to truly understand 
what was going on.
Young Americans relied on “The Colbert Report” 
and “The Daily Show” for their news. Some have even 
gone as far to say the rise of Donald Trump would have 
faltered, at least to some degree, if it weren’t for the 
absence of Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert. Although Stewart now reserves his time for animal sanctuaries in New Jersey, Colbert now hosts “The Late Show” on CBS. Sadly, both have seemed to move on from educat-
ing viewers on current events. As successor to David 
Letterman, Colbert abandoned his past show persona to capture a wider audience on CBS. The problem is, out of character, Colbert seems out of place, and ratings reﬂ  ect 
his newly founded struggles. Jimmy Fallon’s “The To-
night Show” holds a healthy lead over Colbert’s show in viewers and ratings. In fact, as Colbert was overlooked for an Emmy nomination, but James Corden’s “The Late Late Show” received one, there were rumors the two 
shows might switch time slots. Yes, James Corden, the 
British guy who’s popular for singing karaoke in a van.
Last week, Colbert ﬁ  nally went back into his original 
character for the ﬁ  rst time. Last week was also one of 
the most popular weeks for his show since its debut last 
fall. Colbert was playing to his strengths by satirically covering the Republican National Convention, along with help from two Jon Stewart appearances in the process. As much as Colbert may want to get away from satire and politics, it’s what 
he does best.
Colbert does not have the type of talent 
to talk Hollywood like Jimmy Kimmel, lip-
sync battle like Jimmy Fallon or sing in a van 
like James Corden. Thank goodness. While 
Colbert may not be able to rely on pure enter-tainment like other talk show hosts can, the 
others can’t discuss the more serious topics like Colbert. Consider his interview with Vice President Joe Biden 
last September. During rumors circling about Biden’s 
chances for running in 2016 and the recent passing of his son, Beau Biden, the vice president gave a heart-felt interview with the only person suited for the task. 
Americans still look to Colbert for his opinions and in-
sights on latest events this country undergoes. Instead of diversifying to a CBS crowd by copying what other hosts provide, Colbert can now mix serious and heart-felt moments with political comedy.
Stephen Colbert abandoned his past success to ﬁ  ll the 
shoes of David Letterman. However, Colbert shouldn’t forget the reason he has become a leading ﬁ  gure in en-tertainment in the ﬁ  rst place. It’s not because he could 
play a ﬁ  ctitious character, nor was it his ability, or lack 
thereof, to keep up with Hollywood gossip. Colbert has the unique gift to entertain and educate at the same time, and there’s never been a more vital time for the two to coincide. He may never become America’s most 
popular show host, but educating millions of Americans 
on the interworking of this country’s political system will always trump entertaining millions with karaoke.
Joshua Udvardy is a UF mechanical engineering 
sophomore. His column appears on Thursdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
Guest Column
Looking back at the ending Summer semester with Student Government
Hey, Gators!
As the summer comes to a close, 
I wanted to share everything Student 
Government has accomplished for students over the Summer term.
First, we announced that 24-hour access is 
moving back to Library West and will now be 24/7, allowing students the opportunity to study at any time that fits with their schedule. Starting this Fall, with the installation of Ga-torade vending machines at the Student and Southwest Recreation Centers, students will be able to enjoy Gatorade while working out. A new distribution program will help students stay dry by offering recyclable ponchos in var-ious locations around campus. Students will also be able to rent hammocks free of charge. Plans to open Au Bon Pain in Newell Hall have been finalized for 2017, which will ex-pand healthy eating options on our campus, and construction will begin shortly thereafter in the Hub allowing for Chick-fil-A breakfast options.
SG agencies have been hard at work as 
well. External Affairs Chairman, Jason Rich-ards, set up listening tours with Multicultural and Diversity Affairs to discuss their vision for UF and how SG can help them make that vision possible. Action SG Chairman Ty Robare has also made great strides in improving our social media, including a new Snapchat account (@ufstudent-gov), a rebranding of our Facebook pages and an expansion of our fol-lower base to include thousands of new and current students, along with alumni. Additionally, students are now able to keep track of all SG initiatives with the Platform Tracker. This series of videos allows all Gators to follow our progress through-out the year and hold us accountable on the promises we made to you. The platform track-er video series has been extremely popular and our social media has reached more stu-dents and had more interactions in the past semester than all of last year combined.
Also, SG announced that The Big Event 
will be taking place on April 1, 2017, so mark your calendars! The Big Event is one of the largest, one-day, student-run service projects in the nation, and we are excited to participate for the first time. This event is an opportunity for UF students, staff and local residents to come together and build a better Gainesville community. 
Following the UF Supreme 
Court’s most recent decision, Sena-tors have moved to place over-turned amendments back on the ballot, including amending the SG non-discrimination policy, online voting and the transition of the Honor Court Chancellor into an SG 
agency head. 
From July 22 through July 24, UF had the 
honor of hosting the 2016 SEC Student Gov-ernment Exchange. More than 200 student leaders from across the Southeast region came together to exchange ideas in an effort to improve our respective college campuses. UF managed to bring home awards for Out-standing Student Government Achievement for Legislation, which mandated the addition of U Matter, We Care resources to all syllabi beginning Fall 2016. We also took home Out-standing Student Government Annual Event for the Young Leaders Conference. My admin-istration and I are confident that with all of our progress thus far, we will be able to represent UF extremely well next year in Baton Rouge. The SEC Exchange was an incredible success thanks to the efforts of Senate President Jenny Clements and Chairman Danny Murphy, and we look forward to utilizing the resources we gained to better serve our Student Body.
If you didn’t get a chance to come by 
Snow Cones and SG last week, make sure to look out for me as you’re moving into your residence halls where my team and I will be helping incoming students! During the first week of the Fall and beyond, SG will be host-ing weekly tabling events to ensure students both new and seasoned have the opportunity to learn more about their representatives and how to get involved.
As always, please feel free to reach out 
with any comments, questions or concerns. 
Go Gators! Susan Webster is the UF Student Body 
president. Her column appears monthly.
Susan Webster
opinions@alligator.org
"As the summer comes to a close, 
I wanted to share everything 
that Student Government has 
accomplished for students  
over the Summer term."8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
By Nancy Massani
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Fall term is quickly approaching, but 
LifeSouth Community Blood Centers are re-
minding everyone there is still time to enjoy the outdoors.
LifeSouth will host a blood drive from Aug. 
1 to Aug. 7 in which donors can win a pack of outdoor items.
Anyone who donates at the centers, located 
at 1221 NW 13th St. and 4039 Newberry Road, or at the bloodmobile in front of Century Tower will be entered into the rafﬂ  e.
The bloodmobile will be on campus from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. The centers will be open Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., 
Tuesday and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., 
and Saturday and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
One winner will be chosen for the prize pack, which includes a tent, a kayak, a guided canoe trip, a Yeti cooler, folding chairs and more, said Laura Bialeck, the district community develop-
ment coordinator for LifeSouth.
Mariem del Rio, a research coordinator for 
UF’s College of Medicine, said she decided to 
donate blood during her extra time between classes.
“Best of all, I got a free shirt,” del Rio said. 
“Of course that wasn’t why I wanted to donate, but it was the cherry on top.”
Donors must be healthy and at least 17 years 
old with a photo ID or 16 years old with parental permission. All donors must weigh at least 110 pounds. 
“We’re hoping that people will come out and 
help us have enough blood to supply our local hospitals,” Bialeck said. “It’s a good thing be-cause one donation can save up to three lives and you may be the lucky winner.”  Blood drive to feature 
outdoor-themed prizes
By Rachel Donohue
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents can 
beat the heat with a cold treat 
during Miracle Treat Day, a charity event beneﬁ  ting UF Health Shands Hospital.
Children’s Miracle Net-
work hospitals and Dairy Queen have teamed up across the country to donate $1 or more from each Blizzard Treat sold today to support hospital-ized children.
Seven local stores and 16 
additional franchise locations 
across Florida will participate, 
according to the Miracle Treat Day website.To promote attendance, 
the Archer Road location will host local Children’s Miracle 
Network ambassadors from 
4 p.m. to 6 p.m., according to Matt Romkey, the director for CMN at UF Health Shands Children’s Hospital.
Guests can meet the am-
bassadors, who are children who have been treated at the hospital.
“Our ambassadors are 
very thankful for the amazing care that they have received, and they willingly volunteer their time to spread the impact that it has had on their lives,” Romkey said.
Miss America titleholders, women who have placed in Miss Gainesville, Miss Teen 
Gainesville and other local 
competitions, will also attend the event, he said.
This is the 10th annual 
Miracle Treat Day, with about $35,000 raised at last year’s event for the children’s hos-pital, according to a press re-lease.
“We are hoping to raise 
even more this year,” Romkey said. “We have a lot of opera-tors who have stepped up and are donating everything ex-cept the cost of the Blizzard, and we are very appreciative of these franchises for contrib-uting at such a high level.”
To see all participating lo-
cations, visit miracletreatday.com. 
 Dairy Queen to support kids
The event is todayKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
What to do in Gainesville this weekend
There are events Friday through Sunday, pg. 12THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Supporting the victims of the Pulse shooting
A UF graduate designed art featuring the dead, pg. 11By Paola Asencio
Avenue Writer
Editor’s note: This story contains plot 
spoilers.
The much anticipated screenplay by 
J.K. Rowling, “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child,” will be released Sunday, and Gainesville is joining in on the frenzy.  
The screenplay has been put into action 
in London, where Rowling has asked fans to keep the secrets unraveled in the play. Now that the screenplay will be available for the whole world to read, bookstores are holding events to celebrate the eighth book in the Harry Potter series.
For those in town, the UF bookstore and 
2nd & Charles will be hosting midnight re-lease parties. 
“I’ve had my book pre-ordered for about a month already,” said Lizzy Moore, an 18-year-old UF history freshman. “I grew 
up reading and watching the adventures of 
Harry and the gang, and I can’t wait to see 
how his new adventures are.”
The UF bookstore will begin its release 
party at 11 p.m. Saturday. The magical evening will have Harry Potter-themed ac-
tivities and snacks. Attendees will be sorted 
into Hogwarts houses before the midnight release to have participation in the wizard-ing trials competition. 
2nd & Charles, a used bookstore located 
at 2601 NW 13th St., will begin its festivities at 2 p.m. Saturday, with a whole day of fun ﬁ  lled with a Harry Potter coloring event and a scavenger hunt. Starting at 9 p.m., a new 
event will take place every half hour until 
midnight. Activities include face painting, 
wand-making and trivia. A costume contest will be held for a chance to win cash prizes.
The eighth book begins 19 years after the 
Battle of Hogwarts. It is based on an origi-
nal story by J.K. Rowling, Jack Thorne and 
John Tiffany. Through the interpretation of 
the story, Thorne has worked closely with 
Rowling to incorporate the magic of the 
wizarding world of Harry Potter to the real 
world. 
When readers last left Harry Potter, he 
had just rescued Hogwarts from Lord Volde-
mort, or as most refer to him, He Who Shall 
Not Be Named. The ending of the last book 
gives readers an insight on Potter’s future, 
in which he marries Ginny Weasley and has three loving sons. 
When the seventh book ends, Harry and 
Ginny are on Kings Cross Platform 9 & 3/4 
to see their youngest son, Albus Severus, 
leave for the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry for the ﬁ  rst time. Ron and Hermione are also on the platform to see 
their daughter, Rose, off to school.
Now as readers enter Hogwarts once 
again, the book goes into detail of the jour-
ney Albus Severus Potter must face as he 
struggles with the weight of a family legacy 
he never asked for and how a father and 
son must learn the unbearable truth of how 
darkness sometimes comes from unexpect-ed places.
“Anything Harry Potter is always great 
in my book,” said Brian Houston, a 23-year-
old UF physics senior. “I particularly love 
it, because it gives a whole new meaning to physics and what could be possible in an alternative universe, plus, this new book 
also talks about his children who I hope end 
up living to their expectation. No pressure 
though.”  Gainesville celebrates new Harry Potter story
LITERATURE
Courtesy to the Alligator
J.K. Rowling’s screenplay will be released on Sunday.
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” is being performed onstage in London and follows Al-bus Severus Potter (middle), the son of Harry Potter and Ginny Weasley, on his journey at Hogwarts. 
10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
Take The Day
to DISCO VER…
Stay 
connected.
PLAZA     NO RTH    TOWN CENTE RBy Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer 
We hear clichés all the time. Sweet 
as pie, a truckload, hot as hell (Who 
even really knows if hell is really hot or if hell exists at all?). Another clas
-
sic cliché is, “You are what you eat.” 
From that, a spinoff has been born 
into a world where first impressions 
are often last impressions and you 
are what you wear.
We note in our day-to-day lives 
small details. Sometimes we don’t 
notice when we’re staring a little too 
hard at a pair of last season sandals, 
but that’s OK. It’s a very human 
thing to do. What we wear daily may or may not describe our personalities 
and create lasting impressions — ac
-
curate or not.
Here are a few common thread 
style-types and what their outfits may be saying about them.
The “business man”
I know what we’re all thinking: 
suit-and-tie guy. Nope. The classic 
on-the-go guy is most comfortable in slacks and a sports polo. (Also 
known as golf shirts. Denial.) Hair
-
cut is always sharp, and the aroma of Guy Laroche’s 1980 something 
Drakkar Noir is stronger than an In
-
stagirl’s brow game. Clean shaven, because the familiar buzz of an elec
-
trical razor at 6:30 a.m. is comfort -
ing. Has multiple cellphones and 
doesn’t take the buck. Owns suits for 
the occasional conference or wed -
ding. Relaxes with a bottle of Malox 
and the latest stock updates.
The “gym bunny”We all know them. On a map of 
Gainesville, they stick out like sore, 
comfortable thumbs. They are the 
guys and (mostly) gals decked out in every athletic brand known to man. 
The question is whether they actual
-
ly work out (insert inquisitive emoji 
here). The gym bunny spends his or 
her time carrying an 8,000 pound 
backpack while running from class 
to class, swishing because their Nike shorts are made from the same mate
-
rial as windbreakers. Hair is usually freshly wet from a shower or in a 
high ponytail with a stretchy head
-
band to catch perspiration from all of that hard thinking. Also, the gym 
bunny never works out without let
-
ting all of social media know. We get it. You’re so athletic and vegan. 
The “boat shoe”
These folks spent a little too much 
time in their uniforms growing up, even when their schools didn’t re
-
quire one. With crisp tan bermudas 
and a perfectly-posh, pastel Lacoste 
shirt, this style type will definitely be asking for the manager. Highlights 
will be effortless at the expense of 
a six-week standing appointment at the most expensive hair dresser in 
town. Also, they played soccer or la
-
crosse in high school, thank you very much!
The “bargain-ista”
This style type is a reader of 
“Vogue” while he or she waits in the 
checkout line at the grocery store. 
($4 for a magazine? No thanks.) With a rewards card at every chic 
spot in town, he or she never pays 
retail. These nine-to-fivers are the 
style crushes of their plain Jane co
-
workers, with endless amounts of, 
“Where did you find those shoes?” 
The answer? Some discount store or 
a consignment shop. To them, laun -
dry detergent makes any used item 
like new again. Fashionista turned 
bargain-ista, this stylish guy or gal will light their cards up for a good 
deal. Hide yo clearance, hide yo 
sales, ‘cause they buyin’ everything out in here.
The “go-getter-girl”
The go-getter-girl’s wardrobe is 
chock full of pencil skirts and shift dresses. She is the style icon of the 
office and is known for posh pro
-
fessionalism. She always arrives 
with enough time to change out of 
her foldable flats into a pair of kill -
er heels. Hair is up or down, and 
styled with a sharp part. Her work 
tote says style and practicality. Don’t 
underestimate this stick of fashion -
able dynamite. Her wardrobe may 
say business-femme, but she will rip 
your heart out in the courtroom or 
in a board meeting. Don’t ask her to 
get your coffee either. This go-getter broke through the stereotype ceiling 
ages ago, and she’s never going back.You are what you wear: an analysis of first impressionsTHURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
By Natalie Calvo 
Avenue Writer 
Last month, a shooter murdered 49 peo-
ple at Pulse, a gay nightclub. Kelly O’Brien 
said she showed support for her friends in Orlando the only way she knows how. 
The UF graduate, who now lives in Cali-
fornia, drew caricatures of the 49 people who were killed and arranged their smil-ing faces into a rainbow colored heart. She captioned the drawing “Love Wins.”
She posted the ﬁ  nished work on Face-
book for her friends to see before heading to work as a caricature artist. Two hours later she checked her phone between cus-
tomers and was shocked to see the re-
sponse people had to her work, she said.
“I didn’t even know the people who 
were reacting to it,” O’Brien said. “By the 
end of the day, I had thousands of reac-
tions.”
On Facebook, her work has been shared 
by more than 12,000 people. Her post has 
received 18,000 likes and over 800 com-menters have shared support for her work.
“I drew this because I wanted to re-
member the 49 beautiful people who died two weeks ago in my hometown,” O’Brien wrote on her post. “Who died in a place that was meant to signify acceptance and 
safety. I urge you to read their names and 
the words loved ones have written and 
said about them. To my friends who lost someone, I’m so sorry. We will never for-get, and as time will prove, love will win if we continue to educate, to unite, to remain vigilant, and of course, to love.”
The drawing took O’Brien two weeks to ﬁ  nish. She researched each victim on the internet and found photos of them to draw. The drawing is now being used on T-shirts 
sold by various nonproﬁ  t organizations 
throughout the country, with proceeds go-
ing to the families of the victims. 
She graduated from UF in 2014 with a 
bachelor’s degree in drawing. 
O’Brien drew their faces in black and 
white on her tablet. Each layer was a vic-tim’s name. 
“I had a bunch of jumbled up faces,” 
she said. “I wanted to make them be some-thing. I didn’t want anyone to look more 
important than the person next to them.”
The former Orlando resident checked 
Facebook after hearing about the shooting 
to make sure that her friends were safe. 
She began to hear of friends of friends who 
had been inside of the club. She felt help-
less being so far away, she said.
“I started (the drawing) for myself,” 
O’Brien said. “I felt like there was liter-
ally nothing I could do. Thinking about 
each one of them made me want to start 
drawing. I drew each person on a different layer, and once I drew a few I had to draw them all.”
Carolyna Guillen, the president of the 
UF Pride Student Union, said her ﬁ  rst re-action to the shooting was also to check Facebook to see if her friends were safe. She and her friends had gone on road trips 
to Orlando to go to Pulse, she said. 
“I can see that (O’Brien) is coming from 
a good place,” Guillen said. “Especially be-
cause of her attachment to it and her inter-action with Pulse. It was her tragedy too.”
The 21-year-old UF microbiology and cell science junior said the quote “Love Wins” started when gay marriage was being legalized.
“It celebrated an achievement,” Guil-
len said. “She used it to depict victims of a shooting. Love didn’t win that night. We were slaughtered as a consequence of our identity.”The shooting was a hate crime against 
queer and transgender, black and brown people, she said.
“Love isn’t winning right now,” she 
said. “People say that love always wins and that it will win, but it gets hard when you’re trying to deal with a tragedy.”UF alumna supports victims of Pulse shooting with art
ART
Courtesy to the Alligator
UF graduate Kelly O’Brien designed the artwork, shown above, that is now being used on T-shirts by nonproﬁ  ts across the country.
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
 
New to Gainesville’s 
music scene is Just Neigh-
bors, a rock band composed of Justice Diamond (guitar/bass), Dan Lohr (guitar), Jarrett Haines (keyboard/guitar/bass) and Reid Casey (drums). While they are new, the band is quick-
ly making an impression 
on locals and are becoming regulars at clubs and bars around town. I sat down 
with Diamond to talk music 
and what’s next. 
Kirsten Chuba: How 
did you guys get started?
Justice Diamond: Dan 
Lohr and I began playing together a few years back, 
and we were looking to put something together. We met our old singer and cur-
rent bass/guitar/keyboard 
player, Jarrett Haines, 
through mutual friends and started jamming last summer. Jarrett knew a 
drummer from his previous 
band and brought him in. 
The ﬁ  rst few jam sessions clicked and Just Neighbors was born.
KC: How would you de-
ﬁ  ne your sound? 
JD: Our sound would 
probably fall under the post-rock/math-rock genre but we draw inﬂ  uences from all over, including jazz and funk.
KC: What has your 
show schedule been like?
JD: We have played a 
handful of shows around Gainesville at the High Dive, The Jam (RIP), and 
we are playing (Friday) at 
Loosey’s.KC: Do you have any 
records or EPs on the way?
JD: Something big is in 
the works, stay tuned.
KC: You guys are one 
of the newer and younger 
bands playing right now. How has that affected you?
JD: As a new band, it can 
be difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  gure out the direction to take and what you want to accomplish. After a year, we’ve record-ed an LP, headlined shows and watched our sound evolve to what it is now. It’s been a lot of work, but it feels good to look back and see howmuch progress we’ve made. That’s one ad-vantage to being in a new 
band: allowing your sound 
to evolve and watching 
hard work pay off.
KC: What do you think 
about the Gainesville music 
scene, especially for local 
bands?
JD: The Gainesville mu-
sic scene has been a hub 
for great music for a long 
time now. Today, the scene 
is home to dozens of ven-ues, national music fes-
tivals (FEST, Suwannee, 
etc.), and live music every 
night. There is a lot of op-
portunity out there for lo-cal bands of any kind of sound. That is what makes the Gainesville scene so unique: the variety of mu-sic being made and the out-let to actually play it. If you want to see Just Neighbors in action, they will be play-ing at Loosey’s on Friday alongside three other lo-cal bands. Doors open at 9 p.m. with a $5 cover. 
Know of any other lo-
cal musicians or artists I should check out? Send Kirsten an email at kchu-ba@alligator.org.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
Just Neighbors, a four-piece rock band, is new to Gainesville’s music scene. The band has quickly started performing regularly at downtown venues.
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer 
Looking for something 
to keep you busy as you wish away the Saturdays until football season? The Avenue is here to help you out with the best places to get drinks, hear local music and get artistic this weekend. 
FridayShow at Loosey’s: Lo-
cal bands Carpadium, Velocirapture, Crystal Balls and Just Neighbors, who are featured in this week’s Q&A, will per-form at Loosey’s, located at 120 SW First Ave., on Friday at 9 p.m. With just a $5 cover, this is a great way to check out the local music scene and hang out with friends. 
GatorNights Swamp 
Olympics: In celebration of the Rio Olympic Games kicking off next week, UF is hosting their own ver-sion, with glow-in-the-dark mini golf, tricycle relay races and gaming stations. This is the last GatorNights of the Sum-mer, which will run from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., and there will be two showings of “Huntsman: Winter’s War.” As usual, the event is free for all students with a Gator 1 Card. 
SaturdayArchaeology on Tap: 
On Saturday at 5 p.m., History Bikes Gainesville has organized an event to ride bikes to First Magni-tude Brewing Company for an archaeology les-son. The lesson will fo-
cus on Ocala’s Silver Glen 
Springs, with artifacts and 
archaeologists on hand 
for a Q&A. The event is free, so get some exercise, 
drink some good beer and 
learn some local history. 
Battle of the Blues: 
Leonardo’s Music and 
Antiques and the North 
Central Florida Blues Soci-
ety are putting on a blues 
competition at Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret, lo-
cated at 112 SW First Ave. 
The songwriting competi-
tion and concert will start 
at 6 p.m. on Saturday, and 
the winner will receive a 
guitar. Admission to the 
show is $8, and food, beer 
and wine will be available. 
Sunday
Painting at Swamp 
Head: Painting with a 
Twist is bringing their art 
studio to Swamp Head 
Brewery, located at 3650 
SW 42nd Ave., on Sun-
day at 3 p.m. Participants 
will paint the Swamp 
Head logo on a personal 
canvas while drinking lo-
cal brews. Tickets for the 
event are $45 and can be 
reserved at paintingwith-
atwist.com. 
Sunday Poker: Gator 
Tales sports bar, located at 5112 NW 34th St., is 
hosting a free afternoon 
of Sunday poker at 1 p.m. 
Happy hour will feature 
drink specials, and wings are 50 cents.This weekend in 
Gainesville 
LOCAL
Talking to local band Just Neighbors
Q&ATHURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
This is part two of a two-part 
interview with Logic. To read part 
one, check out last week’s Avenue. 
Logic is currently on The End-
less Summer Tour with G-Eazy, Yo Gotti and YG. At their show in Tampa this past Sunday, I, along with my good friend David Spreen, were able to sit down with Logic on 
his tour bus and talk about his lat-
est project “Bobby Tarantino,” tour life, new music, traveling and more. Check out the highlights from my 
interview with Logic.
Jack DaSilva: What about your 
recording process? Because you do 
a lot of your own production, do you start with a beat? A verse? Does 
it change?
Logic: I think sometimes I can 
have ideas or lines, and I’ll write 
those down without music, but I think the actual ideas for the songs, 
like the lyrics and the inspiration 
behind them, comes from the beats. 
I hear production and I get very in-spired.
J: So you can make a beat and 
get inspired by your own work?
L: Oh yeah, absolutely.David Spreen: That must be a 
great feeling.
L: It’s amazing, but also its good 
to have to have my guy 6ix there be-cause he produces a lot of my beats, so it’s really awesome.
J: Tour life is so interesting, es-
pecially to a normal person like me. Are there places you haven’t toured where you would like to perform?
L: I really want to go to Japan!J: Is it hard to get over there?L: No, I just haven’t done it — I 
need to do it. I’m so transﬁ  xed on what I’m doing right now, but next year I am 100 percent going to Ja-pan. I love Japan; I’ve always been 
so inspired by Tokyo and anime and 
all this different stuff. I wouldn’t 
necessarily tour, but just go over there, do a couple shows and pro-duce some music. I think that’d be pretty awesome.
J: Artists do that all the time. 
They’ll go to different places to get 
inspiration.
L: I went to Hawaii to ﬁ  nish “The Incredible True Story,” actu-
ally.
J: Oh wow!
L: Yeah, I had never been to Ha-
waii, and I always wanted to go, so 
I went. YOLO!
J: Do you like to record over-seas? Maybe in Europe or some-
thing?
L: I’ve never recorded overseas.
J: Really? Made in the USA, 
right?
L: I know, right? I’ve never 
thought about it that way… that’s kind of crazy!
J: Going back to how you were 
talking about tour life and how 
rough it is: What are some challeng-
es you face on tour? Do you have 
some things you like to keep con-
sistent? Like, do you have a favorite food you like to eat on the road?
L: Just eating in general is hard. 
There’s so much mental and physi-
cal stress that it’s literally hard for 
me to eat. This tour is a lot better though, and I think it’s because I’m 
doing a lot less — I’m not recording 
all the time. I don’t have all these 
insane things on my plate so it al-lows me to live normal. Sometimes it’s hard for me to wake up, you 
know what I mean? It’s hard to get 
up early and go outside — it’s just 
difﬁ  cult to be on a bus all the time. It seems cool from the outside, and it is dope, and it is probably the best 
and most comfortable way to tour, 
but just imagine performing for an 
hour every single day for two, three months and any other time in be-tween that like… I don’t even want 
to play video games; sometimes I 
don’t even feel like reading; some-
times I just want to go in the back and just lay there and that’s not healthy.
J: Do you try and stay active on 
the road?
L: I do. I like to play catch (with 
a baseball). It’s very simple — just to even get outside and get some sun is a big deal so I try to do that. Touring is special — there’s nothing like it. Another thing is, is that it’s not going to last forever. I mean, es-pecially with the direction I’m going in music, I can probably get another 15 or 20 more years out of being able to tour. When I’m 50 it’s going to be a memory, so I have to really enjoy it and soak it up even in the hard times.
Check out “Bobby Tarantino” 
now. It’s available to stream on all services.  Part two of the Avenue’s interview with rapper Logic
Q&A
Courtesy to the Alligator
Logic released his ﬁ  fth mixtape, “Bobby T arantino, ” on July 1. The album has been received 
well by critics and fans, reaching No. 12 on the Billboard 200 charts in the U.S. 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) — Lin-
Manuel Miranda jokingly compared him-
self to a hard-to-catch Pokemon as fans pursued him with cellphones Wednesday during a visit to his parents’ native Puerto 
Rico shortly after the end of his run on the 
Broadway hit “Hamilton.”
Cheers broke out as Miranda prom-
ised to bring the show that won 11 Tony Awards to the U.S. territory, adding that he would like to turn it into a movie in the near future.
“I will be your Hamilton!” he said with 
a wide smile as he arrived in the north 
coastal town of Vega Alta, where he spent 
his childhood summers selling ice cream, eating avocados and enlisting neighbors to star in his skits.
Miranda credited his Puerto Rico roots 
for making him a writer, one whose most recent Broadway production earned a Pu-litzer Prize for drama, a Grammy and the Edward M. Kennedy Prize for Drama In-spired by American History.
“When you’re born in the United States 
but your parents are from here, you always live a double life,” he said in Spanish. “And that’s a good way to be a writer. You’re always observing the differences between Puerto Rico and New York.”
As an artist, Miranda said it is also his 
responsibility to create empathy. He re-
cently spoke out about Puerto Rico’s dire 
economic crisis, calling it a “life or death issue” for his family.
He said he was allergic to politics, but 
praised a rescue package that U.S. Presi-dent Barack Obama recently signed into law to help the U.S. territory emerge from a decade-long economic crisis. Miranda also urged Puerto Ricans to analyze what they want for the island’s future.
“We have to keep having that conversa-
tion. We have to ﬁ  gure out who we are,” he said, adding that he supports granting people living in Puerto Rico the right to vote for the U.S. president because they 
are U.S. citizens.
After meeting with the press, Miranda 
went on a tour of cherished childhood 
spots, including the home of Margot Rodri-guez, who was his grandfather’s neighbor.
In an interview with The Associated 
Press, the 83-year-old homemaker recalled how Miranda would thrust a broom han-
dle into her hands and make her pretend 
to play the guitar while he sang. He also enlisted her as an actress, urging her to scream as he threw a makeshift puppet from a tree pretending it was he who had fallen.
“He would come up with the craziest 
things,” she recalled with a laugh. “I love that boy.”
Miranda was scheduled to receive sev-
eral honors in Puerto Rico, including a star on the island’s Walk of Fame. Upon re-turning to the U.S. mainland, Miranda said he plans to become involved in whatever 
projects are “too cool to say ‘no’ to.” One 
fantasy is to write a song for “Star Wars,” he said.
Miranda will appear next in Disney’s 
sequel to “Mary Poppins,” and he wrote the music for the upcoming animated ﬁ  lm “Moana” that features a Polynesian prin-cess. He said he made Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson sing for the ﬁ  lm and learned some 
diet tips from the chiseled star, including 
not sitting down to eat.
“That was my little calorie secret from 
‘The Rock,’” Miranda said with a laugh.
He said he loves the ﬁ  lm in part because 
it’s about a girl who learns that her ances-tors are voyagers who sailed from island to island without maps or compasses.
“You had to memorize where you were 
from to know where you were going,” he said. “This is the best metaphor in the world for Puerto Ricans.” 
 Creator of Broadway hit ‘Hamilton’ visits Puerto Rico THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   7-28-16-12-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-22-16-15-1
4/4 All inclusive w/cable and utility pkg. 1800 SF furn. exc. for beds. Countryside at UF- call or text Cindy for pics or to see-352-339-3763. 8-4-16-5-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-24 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1BA Apartment located across the street from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. $1000/MO-$1000 Security Deposit. Utilities & Cable not included. No Pets. Shown by Appointment Only. 16 NW 20th Terrace, 32603. (352-332-3945) 8-4-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
Lake Front Liquidation!Saturday July 30 th5+/- Acres $9,900Breathtaking Lake ViewsDon’t Miss Out!Call TODAY to Book Your Preview Showing1-888- 270-4695     7-28-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTHURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689- 8647     7-28-1-12
DONATE YOUR CAR FOR BREAST CANCER!Help United Breast Foundation’sEducation, Prevention & Support ProgramsFAST FREE PICKUP - 24 HR RESPONSE - TAX DEDUCTION1-866- 594-4556      7-28-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-13
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
NEED CLINICAL EXPERIENCE BEFORE ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL?Paid, Full-time employment.Training provided.Send resume to Dr. Levy, afn22025@att.net    8-4-6-14AUTOMOTIVE TECHNICIAN NEEDED. Must have diagnostic skills & exp in both for-eign and domestic vehicles and have tools. Fax resume to 386-758-4759 or email to cacrepair@yahoo.com    8-2-16-5-14
Country Inn & Suites currently seeking front desk rep,  night auditor,  & housekeeping at-tendant. Hotel front desk exp. preferred. Also seeking part time house man. Apply in per-son 4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, Fl 32608  8-2-16-5-14
Out of town Gator Alum needs help with tailgates for all home games! looking for a reliable, trustworthy and energetic individual to help prepare, set up tailgate, take down tailgate and store items for the next home game. Great Pay! Great Opportunity! Email me at gatorgamedays@gmail.com 7-28-16-4-14
EXPERIENCED OTR FLATBED DRIVERSEarn 50 up to 55cpm loaded. $1000 Sign Onto qualified drivers. Good home time.Call 843-266- 3731 / www.bulldoghiway.com EOE    7-28-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
1. LITERATURE: Which conser -
vationist wrote the book “The Sea 
Around Us” in 1951?
2. FOOD & DRINK: What are the 
food items mentioned in the song “Take Me Out to the Ball Game”?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capi-
tal of the Bahamas?
4. BIRTHSTONES: What is another 
name for a ruby, July’s birthstone?
5. CARTOONS: What kind of crea-
tures are Disney characters Chip and 
Dale?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the nickname of the Universi-
ty of Idaho sports teams?
7. EARTH SCIENCE: What is mag-
ma? 
8. GAMES: What word refers to a 
draw in the game of chess?
9. BIBLE: In which two books of 
the Bible do the Ten Commandments appear?
10. TELEVISION: In this 1970s-80s 
TV drama of the same name, what does the acronym “CHiPs” refer to?
Answers
1. Rachel Carson2. Peanuts and Cracker Jack3. Nassau4. Red corundum5. Chipmunks
6. Vandals
7. Molten rock8. Stalemate9. Exodus and Deuteronomy10. California Highway Patrol
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
July 25, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
You need the money
to do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
DISH Promotion! 35th Anniversary!Save up to $720With our 3-Year Price LockLock in your discounts now!Call now for this special promotion!855-479- 7963      7-28-1-15
PROBLEMS with the IRS or State Taxes?Settle for a fraction of what you owe!Results may vary.Not a solicitation for legal services.Wall & Associates 1-877- 330-3429      7-28-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800- 224-0305      7-28-1-16
LUNG CANCER? And Age 60+?You and Your Family May be entitledto significant CASH AWARD.Call 1-855- 389-3099      7-28-1-16
Struggling with DRUGS and ALCOHOL?Addicted to Pills?Talk to someone who caresCall the Addiction Hope &amp; Help LineFor a free assessment, 1-855- 995-3142      7-28-1-16IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD 
HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Lost Small Blind White Dog with black face. 
Last seen Madera Subdividion.All info ap-preciated. Picture at- https://flic.kr/p/KfkeBu Bonzaicb@yahoo.com 352-222-1080     8-4-5-25
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
ACROSS
1 Novelist
celebrated on
Bloomsday
6 Leaves on a
shelf?
11 Pampering place
14 Spheres of study15 Like 1-Across
16 Granola grain
17 Host of a program
also known as“The Factor”
19 “What a cutie!”
20 Pampas weapon
21 Slanted text:
Abbr.
22 “A” on many a
cornerstone
23 He or I
24 Feature of some
German nouns
27 Lee material
29 Locks30 Half a repartee32 Stick around
33 Berliner’s
direction
34 ’60s-’70s sitcom
whose fouroriginal family
members were
married over the
course of theseries
37 Wee amount
39 “Glee” extra
40 Backing41 Belgian diamond
center
43 Expressive tweet
space-savers
47 Virus symptom,
perhaps
51 Cries of clarity52 Temptation
garden
53 “O, beware, my
lord, of jealousy”speaker
54 Banks on a
runway
55 Place for a
screwdriver
56 Private details ...
or what’s found inthis puzzle’scircles
59 Before, to Byron60 Action movie
climax
61 Toys in laps,
briefly
62 Newsman
Koppel63 Pompeo of
“Grey’s Anatomy”
64 Hobbit on a quest
DOWN
1 Elbowed
2 Player with an
orange-and-blacklogo
3 Federal Reserve
chair after
Bernanke
4 Great misfortune
5 Anka’s “__ Beso”6 Michelangelo
statue
7 Courier
alternative
8 Manufacturer of
Venus razors
9 Immigrant’s subj.
10 Uncomfortable in
singles bars
11 No-goodniks12 “Dances With
Wolves” natives
13 If all goes wrong18 Edge22 Short reply?25 Clutch
26 Pooh’s gloomy
pal
28 Monster High doll
maker
31 “Done!”32 C-SPAN fig.
34 Complained under
one’s breath
35 Retaliatory act36 “Oh, it’s fine”
37 Low-risk wager
38 How some
foolish things aredone
42 Pallid44 Tribute song on
John Lennon’s“Imagine”45 Rattled
46 Mom’s
argument-ending
words
48 More than see49 Birth city of most
of the Osmonds
50 Seafood delicacy56 Hotel amenity
57 Org. with 30
franchises
58 Hawaiian Tropic
lotion letters
By C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/28/1607/28/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, July 28, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
15 Services 18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
"It's crazy how if an athlete does something wrong it hits for days 
and months, but if they do something good it only hits for a few days."
- Duke Dawson , UF defensive back 
@7upya_At least 105 Russian athletes 
have been banned from the Rio Olympics so far.Read the story on pg. 20 .By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Three guards, one forward 
and a center walk into a gym. 
No, this isn’t the beginning of   
a poorly written riddle — it’s the makeup of Florida basketball’s 2016 class. The Gators have been busy this offseason, and while two of their newest sum-mer additions won’t be eligible until the 2017-18 season, all of them have given Mike White and his coaching staff reason for 
optimism. Here’s a breakdown 
of the ﬁ  ve newest faces on the 
men’s basketball team.
Canyon Barry / 6-foot-6 
guard / graduate transfer
Let’s start with the most ex-
perienced of the ﬁ  ve. 
Barry, son of NBA Hall 
of Famer Rick Barry, left the 
College of Charleston in May and transferred to Florida over two other schools: Northwestern and Miami.
He averaged 19.7 points 
on 40.2 percent shooting last 
year as a Cougar but suffered a 
shoulder injury on Jan. 2 against 
William & Mary. He missed the 
remainder of the season after 
surgery.
But when he’s healthy, Barry 
can put up points in bunches. He has a quick release from be-hind the arc and shot 36.8 per-cent from three-point range the last time he played a full season in 2014-15.
Florida is betting that his 
shoulder is back to normal, and 
with one year of eligibility re-
maining, UF hopes that Barry 
can provide a much-needed 
scoring presence to a young and 
inexperienced UF team.
Jalen Hudson / 6-foot-6 
guard / junior transfer
Hudson is UF’s second trans-
fer of the 2016 offseason, but THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Mike White shouts instructions to his team during Florida's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 at the O'Connell Center. Five new players committed this summer to playing under White.
FIVE NEW FACES: Meet UF basketball 's newcomers
SWEET AND BAUER / OPINION
With football season rapidly 
approaching, many questions 
still surround the Florida football 
team, picked to ﬁ  nish second in the Southeastern Conference East Division 
at SEC Media Days. Here are the four 
most pressing questions ahead of Fall camp.
Who will start at quarterback?This is technically still a question 
only in the sense that a starter hasn’t ofﬁ  cially been named. At this point, it would be a revelation if Luke Del Rio didn’t trot out with the ﬁ  rst-
team offense when Florida plays 
Massachusetts on Sep. 3. 
The journeyman signal caller 
transferred to UF from Oregon State before last season and sat out due to NCAA transfer rules, and his only 
action for the Gators was in the Spring 
game. But not only did he start the game for the ﬁ  rst-team offense — he 
outperformed his competition by 
completing 10-of-11 passes for 176 yards and two touchdowns. 
As for the rest of the quarterback 
crop, Austin Appleby’s experience could give him an edge in securing the No. 2 spot. The Purdue graduate 
transfer brings Big 10 starting 
experience and a 6-foot-4 frame. 
Aside from him, true freshmen Kyle 
Trask and Feleipe Franks round out the group. Trask, a three-star passer who was a backup at his Texas high 
school, turned heads during spring for 
his accuracy. Franks, who was one of the most 
coveted recruits in Florida’s 2016 class, 
struggled mightily in the Spring game, 
going 5-of-11 with three interceptions. 
Who will emerge at running 
back?
Florida has a stable of capable 
players in the backﬁ  eld, but the 
question is if any will emerge as 
a playmaker. The Gators have no Leonard Fournette, Nick Chubb or 
Dalvin Cook right now.  Four questions before football team starts Fall camp 
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriSEE OLYMICS,  PAGE 19
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 18SEE BASKETBALL,  PAGE 19When former Florida gymnast 
Bridget Sloan traveled to Beijing for 
the 2008 Olympics, she was 16. At 
the time, she had no idea the olym-
pic village turned into an adult playground after dark. 
“Sex was never, ever a thought 
for me,” she said. 
“I was deﬁ  nitely very naive.”As ﬁ  rst reported by Brazilian 
newspaper Folha de São Paulo, the International Olympic Commit-
tee will be thrusting 350,000 male 
condoms, 100,000 female condoms and 175,000 vials of lubricant into the olympic village. That works out 
to about 42 condoms per athlete 
over the 19-day event. 
For the Olympic Committee to 
run out of their supply of condoms, each athlete would have to ﬁ  nagle 
more than twice a day, every day.
Sloan said while sex wasn’t a 
thought for her at the Olympics, 
it didn’t seem to be a thought for 
anyone else either.  UF athletes 
unfazed by sex in Olympics
THE OL YMPIC COMMITTEE 
IS PROVIDING 450,000 
CONDOMS TO OL YMPIANS 
THIS SUMMER.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
But can they by mid-season?
The competitors vying for time 
with the first-team offense are Mark 
Thompson, Jordan Cronkrite and 
Jordan Scarlett. 
Cronkrite and Scarlett are both 
sophomores who bring similar 
skill sets. They’re about the same 
size (5-foot-11, 200 pounds), and 
they’re quick. But neither one was 
fast enough to burn defenders nor big enough to run them over last 
season. 
Thompson, meanwhile, is a 
bruiser. He’s 6-foot-2, weighs 242 
pounds and has drawn comparisons to former Alabama running back Derrick Henry.
The junior college transfer 
has never played against an SEC 
defense, though. His only taste of 
what that’s like has been in practice 
and in the Orange and Blue Debut, 
when he gained 46 yards on five carries and scored a touchdown. 
He’s the wild card of the bunch, 
but the other two only have one 
year of collegiate experience. Only 
time will tell if they can make the leap from competent to productive 
in year two. 
Who’s going to fill the void of 
defensive playmakers?
The Gators lost their top player 
from last season at every defensive unit. 
Vernon Hargreaves is no longer 
locking down receivers at corner, Keanu Neal is no longer patrolling  
the open field at safety, Antonio Morrison is no longer hitting 
runners in the hole at linebacker, 
and Jonathan Bullard is no longer 
anchoring the defensive line. 
Of those positions, the one of 
least concern should be cornerback. 
Jalen Tabor might be better than Hargreaves, and Quincy Wilson 
is capable of holding his own 
on the other side. At nickelback, Duke Dawson shouldn’t have a problem either. With an extra year 
of experience, this group could be 
better than last season’s. 
On the defensive line, replacing 
Bullard also shouldn’t be too much of a hassle. The Gators have some of the best depth in the country in the 
defensive trenches, and that starts 
at the top with Caleb Brantley, Cece 
Jefferson, Bryan Cox and Joey Ivie. 
In addition, the Gators have capable contributors in Taven Bryan, Khairi 
Clark, Keivonnis Davis, Justus Reed 
and Jordan Sherit. And finally, 
there’s also the influx of young 
talent like Jabari Zuniga, Jachai 
Polite and UF’s top recruit of 2016, 
Antonneous Clayton. 
Things get hazier at linebacker, 
where depth will be important. Jarrad Davis, the unquestioned leader of Florida’s linebacking 
corps, should be able to compensate 
for the loss of Antonio Morrison. 
Beyond him, though, there are 
plenty of questions.
Alex Anzalone, if healthy, 
should start. Daniel McMillian and Matt Rolin were top recruits three years ago but have done little during their time in Gainesville. If they’re 
going to emerge as contributors, 
this would be the time. 
Beyond them, the Gators could 
turn to reserves like Cristian Garcia or Rayshad Jackson as well as to true freshmen like Vosean Joseph and Jeremiah Moon. 
Then there’s safety, where 
redshirt senior Marcus Maye has a stranglehold on one starting spot. The other, though, is up in the air. 
The Gators could go with veteran 
players like Nick Washington and 
Marcell Harris, or they could move 
Dawson or Wilson back there and put some younger players — like Chauncey Gardner or McArthur 
Burnett — in at corner. Gardner, 
who was UF’s top DB recruit in 
2016, could also potentially play 
safety. 
Will Eddy Pineiro perform in 
front of a crowd?
The early indications are yes. 
Pineiro electrified the Swamp 
during the Orange and Blue Debut, connecting on 3-of-5 field goal 
attempts with the two misses coming from beyond 50 yards. 
He’s also garnered hype for his 
videos of 70+-yard kicks on social media, which have led some fans to 
anoint him as the second coming of 
Caleb Sturgis. But as Lee Corso has 
said many times on ESPN’s College 
Gameday, “not so fast, my friend.”
Pineiro has never — including 
in high school or junior college — kicked in front of hostile crowds on a fraction of the scale of the 100,000+ he’ll encounter in 
Knoxville. 
Being able to perform in road 
environments will be key for the 
Gators, who lost out on 30 points last season at the hands of missed field goals. Pineiro seems to be a solution 
to that problem, but just remember one thing if you think he’s the 
messiah before proving it: Austin 
Harden was the country’s No. 1 
kicker in high school.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org
COLUMN,  from pg17Florida lost four defensive stars from last season's team
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor (left) looks to the crowd during the Orange and Blue 
Debut on April 8 at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
unlike Barry, he’ll have to sit 
out one full season before he becomes eligible to play due to NCAA transfer rules.
And although Hudson put up 
respectable numbers last season at Virginia Tech — he scored 8.4 points and 2.3 rebounds per game — the most notable aspect of Hudson’s past may not be what he’s done, but where he’s from.
Hudson attended St. Vincent-
St. Mary High School in Akron, 
Ohio, the same school that pro-
duced 12-time NBA All Star LeB-
ron James.
Hudson shot 40.1 percent 
from the ﬁ  eld and 34.6 percent from three last season and gives 
White a solid base to work with 
until the guard is eligible to play 
in 2017.
Eric Hester / 6-foot-3 guard 
/ freshman
Hester is a four-star recruit 
out of Oldsmar (Fla.) Christian 
High School and had plenty of 
options to choose from when he 
was making his decision, includ-ing Louisville, Maryland, South-ern California, Florida State and Miami.
Hester is a defensive-mind-
ed combo guard who can score in the lane and handle the ball well, but his best attribute is his strength.
He’s able to lockdown perim-
eter players on defense and ﬁ  ght through trafﬁ  c to get to the rim 
on offense, a combination that 
White will be enamored with.
Hester is an ideal ﬁ  t for Flori-
da’s new-look, press-ﬁ  rst defen-sive scheme under White.Dontay Bassett / 6-foot-9 
forward / freshman
You can say Bassett and Hes-
ter were a package deal.
They’re both from Oldsmar 
Christian, and while Bassett was 
a three-star recruit, he had just as many offers as Hester.
The forward chose Florida 
over Arkansas, Oregon State, Boston College and others, and 
brings a high-energy mentality to 
a frontcourt that already includes 
6-foot-11 shot-blocker John Eg-
bunu and 6-foot-9 workhorse Ke-varrius Hayes.
Bassett has long arms, a high 
motor, has shown the ability to hit a jump shot from outside the paint and ﬁ  ght in the post for a rebound or a put-back layup.
UF’s coaching staff hopes his 
athleticism translates nicely to the college level.
Gorjok Gak / 6-foot-11 
center / freshman
Like Hudson, Gak will not be 
eligible until the 2017-18 season.
But unlike Hudson, Gak is 
more of an unknown.
A native of Australia, the 
three-star recruit averaged 13.8 points and 9.3 rebounds per game for Victory Rock Prep School in Bradenton last year. 
But at just 200 pounds, Gak 
will need to spend the season 
bulking up in Florida’s strength 
room. Once he does, he could be-
come an instant contributor. 
His length and shot-blocking 
ability will help him protect the 
paint and collect rebounds on 
the defensive end. He has also 
shown effectiveness while ﬁ  nish-ing above the rim and has good touch in the paint.
But a year to develop will do 
him some good.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
John Egbunu (15) attempts to dunk during Florida's  88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center. Egbunu will be joined in the front court by newcomers Dontay Bassett next season and Gorjok Gak in 2017. 
Hester, Bassett went to 
high school together 
“I met a lot of different ath-
letes, and that was never a topic 
of conversation,” she said. 
“I heard about it and I was 
like, ‘Wait, that was a thing? People actually did that?’”
But she was young, as were 
many of her friends on the USA gymnastics team. What about someone older?
Marquis Dendy will make his 
Olympic debut in Rio as a long 
jumper on team USA’s track and 
ﬁ  eld squad. 
The 23-year-old Florida gradu-
ate said that while he’s heard 
about what goes on between competitions, he’s trying to ig-
nore it. 
“Everyone talks about sex at 
the Olympics,” Dendy wrote in a direct message on Twitter.
“However, my focus isn’t on 
sex at all. My focus is getting a medal. Seeing how this is my ﬁ  rst Olympics, I don’t have much room for outside thoughts and distractions.”
Sloan feels that if she were 
back at the Olympics knowing what she knows now, she would feel similarly. 
She can’t imagine herself — or 
anyone on team USA — concen-trating on anything other than winning. 
“We’re such a dominant 
country that when we go to the Olympic games, we know that we have a job to do, and we’re not only representing ourselves 
but the United States,” she said. 
“And that makes a big difference.
“I think that for any country 
that is a dominant country, they don’t really allow their athletes 
to just go in there and go buck 
wild.” 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgOLYMPICS,  from pg17Rio will be Dendy's irst Olympics
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Marquis Dendy competes in the triple jump during the 2015 
NCAA Indoor Championships on March 14  in Arkansas.  
BASKETBALL,  from pg1720   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2016
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MOSCOW (AP) — At least 105 
athletes from the 387-strong Russian 
Olympic team announced last week have been barred from the Rio Games in connection with the country’s dop-
ing scandal.
International federations in canoe-
ing, sailing and modern pentathlon 
ruled out eight on Tuesday, includ-ing an Olympic gold medalist. Row-ing added 19 more athletes to three that had previously been announced. Swimming has also barred some ath-letes. Some appeals are likely.Russian President Vladimir Putin’s 
spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Rus-sian media that Putin had discussed the doping issue with his national se-curity council.
“The topic of the recent Interna-
tional Olympic Committee ruling re-
lating to Russian athletes was raised 
ahead of Putin’s planned meeting tomorrow with the Russian Olympic team,” Peskov was quoted as saying.
The vast majority of the Russian 
athletes who miss out are in track and field, where 67 athletes were ruled out when a ban on the Russian team was upheld at the Court of Arbitration for Sport last week.
More are falling foul of new rules 
imposed in the wake of the country’s doping scandal.
While Russia avoided a blanket 
ban from the International Olympic Committee, it has lost several medal 
contenders to new IOC rules imposed 
Sunday banning Russia from entering athletes who previously doped.
Legal challenges are looming.Swimmer Yulia Efimova’s agent 
has said he is preparing an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, and the Russian Canoe Federation’s gen-eral secretary Irina Sirayeva said five banned athletes could follow suit.
“The intention to defend the ath-
letes is there,” she told R-Sport.
Triple jumper Ekaterina Koneva 
— a former world championship sil-ver medalist — told local media she was considering a lawsuit in civil 
court.
There was good news for Russia 
as its judo and shooting teams — 
comprised 11 and 18 athletes respec-tively — received approval to com-pete from their sports’ international governing bodies.
Also, Russia also looks set to field 
a full team of four players in Olympic badminton, the Russian Badminton Federation said Tuesday, citing as-surances from the Badminton World Federation.
Archery, tennis and equestrian 
sport’s world governing bodies said they had no objection to the Russians entered in their sports.
Lists of Russian athletes approved 
by international federations must still be approved by CAS arbiters who can reject athletes not tested outside Rus-sia.
The IOC didn’t accept testing done 
by Russian agencies because of evi-dence that the process was corrupted.
At least 105 Russian athletes banned from Olympics so far