By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Loss, refugees, veterans and current real-
world tragedies are on display at a new Sam-
uel P. Harn Museum of Art exhibit.
“Aftermath: The Fallout of War — Amer-
ica and the Middle East,” which will be on display until Dec. 31, is a collection of visu-als, including photos and videos, from 12 in-ternational artists.
The collection offers a closer look at armed 
conﬂ  ict over the past decades and how the conﬂ  ict affects the environment, said Tami Wroath, the director of marketing and public relations at the Harn. 
Countries shown in the photographs in-
clude Lebanon, Afghanistan, Libya, the U.S. and Iraq. 
“In this exhibition, you get a perspective 
from Westerners and people living there in the Middle East taking pictures, and you get such a great sense of not only the people be-ing photographed but also the photographers in the area,” said Casey Wooster, a 24-year-old UF museum studies masters student. Carol McCusker, the Harn’s curator of 
photography, spent the past few years orga-
nizing it.  
The collection includes works from well-
known photographers such as Stephen Du-
pont, Jennifer Karady and Rania Matar, 
Wroath said. About 90 photos taken depict 
the events happening overseas. “It’s showing the human aspect of war 
and not an us/them, good/bad situation,” she said. “We’re all human, and we’re all be-
ing affected by it.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 3 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
SPORTS
Josh Hammond and the rest of Florida’s 
receivers participated in preseason practice on Tuesday. See the photo story, pg 14
UF Senate approves positions for Fall election
Senators approved 23 assistant supervisors of elections, pg. 3
New Chipotle to open in September
It will be located on Northwest 13th Street, pg. 4Discount app to launch Monday
Students will earn points for discounts if their phones are locked, pg. 4
Zachariah Chou / Alligator Staff
MULTICULTURAL MOVES
UF applied physiology and kinesiology sophomore Isha Kothari, 17, leads UF students in a dance on Flavet Field. Kothari is part of Gator Adaa, 
a UF Indian fusion dance team that performed during a multicultural fair hosted by the Volunteers for International Student Affairs on Tuesday.
Courtesy to the Alligator
“Aftermath: The Fallout of War — America and the Middle East” is currently on display at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art. It’s a collection of visuals, including photos and videos, from 12 international artists.
 Harn Museum opens international art exhibitLOCAL
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Bus stop a mile away? Take an Uber.Scheduled to launch this week, an up-
date to the bus-route tracking app Trans-Loc Rider will allow riders to schedule Uber pickups to and from bus stops around Gainesville, wrote Chip Skinner, the mar-keting and communications supervisor at Regional Transit System, in an email.
To use the new feature, riders who have 
the app will be prompted to enter their destinations and be shown an “optimized route, integrating public transit and Uber,” according to TransLoc Rider’s website.
Skinner said the updated app will 
launch today or Wednesday.
The merging of the apps, he said, would 
beneﬁ  t those who live in areas around Gainesville and Alachua County that do not have easy access to the RTS bus system.
“It will allow people to access public 
transit easier,” he said, “especially those people that live outside our service area or a signiﬁ  cant distance from a bus stop.”
Both applications are free through 
smartphone app stores. The price of each Uber trip will depend on the distance a rid-er needs to travel and how long it takes to reach a destination.
Users of TransLoc, also known as Gator 
Locator, do not need to sign up for Uber to use TransLoc, but they do if they want to use the Uber service.
Skinner said preparations to launch the 
app were not to blame for TransLoc Rider’s system crash Monday — or its omission of 11 RTS routes from the app’s display.
He said his department expects the 
omissions to be resolved by next week.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgGainesville’s 
TransLoc 
app to soon 
include Uber
“It will allow people to access public 
transit easier.”
Chip Skinner
Regional Transit System supervisorSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  92° LOW  72°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 
2410 NW 43rd St., invites you to learn the ancient art of belly dancing in a free master class by 
the Al Amoura Dancers. It will 
be Sept. 10 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 for more information.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please keep submissions to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the pa-per. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
The Asian American Student Assembly event Friday will cost $17,500. The Alligator reported otherwise in an article under the headline “‘Big Hero 6’ actor to 
speak at UF freshman assembly.”The "Butterfly Rainforest" ex-
hibit at the Florida Museum of Natural History will be closed Sept. 7 and Oct. 5 while the rest 
of the museum will remain open. 
The Alligator reported otherwise in an article under the headline “UF butterfly exhibit now closing early.”
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  David Hoffman, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff, 
  Michael Smith     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 3
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
At the ﬁ  rst Student Senate meeting of Fall, 23 
students were approved as assistant supervisors of 
elections. 
A minimum of four students are needed to ﬁ  ll the 
positions, according to the Student Government 700 Election Codes. 
All 23 of the students recommended by the 
supervisor of elections were approved without objection.
The positions are unpaid, said Senate President 
Jenny Clements. Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs wrote in an email that 27 students applied for the 
positions over Summer. 
“With this number of ASOE’s we will be able 
to adequately staff each of our polling locations 
to ensure that it is in compliance with the election codes,” Hobbs wrote. 
The assistant supervisors of elections plan on 
monitoring campaign activities on Turlington Plaza as parties get ready for Fall elections, Hobbs said. The assistant supervisors of elections can inform students about SG because they’re not afﬁ  liated with a party, he said. 
During the meeting, UF Student Body President 
Susan Webster also announced that the One Pulse Unity Project will have its closing ceremony Thursday.
Daaneyal Siddiqi was approved for a position on 
the election commission.
On Friday, political parties can begin registering 
at 9 a.m. at the SG ofﬁ  ces, Hobbs said at the meeting. 
“I will be there bright and early,” he said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org   UF Senate approves 23 positions to prep for Fall election 
All were approved without objection
Zachariah Chou/Alligator Staff
Supervisor of Elections Eric Hobbs reminds the Senate about 
details concerning the upcoming election season during the ﬁ  rst 
Student Senate meeting on Monday evening at the Reitz Union.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police charged a 
local man with stealing $4.50 in quarters and a handful of bottle 
rockets from a parked car near 
Gainesville Place Apartments on Monday.
At about 3:16 a.m., Jarvis 
Rashad Smart, 18, ran north through the 
complex after a 
tenant noticed her car alarm blaring, its door 
left open and its 
dome lights left on, according to 
a police report.
The tenant said she saw 
someone rummage through the vehicle, according to the report.
GPD then set up a perimeter 
around the incident area, in the 3700 block of SW 35th Place, and found Smart walking along 
Southwest 27th Street  shortly 
after, according to the report.
When ofﬁ  cers searched Smart, 
they found a small black-and-white change purse containing 
exactly $4.50, according to the report. They also found multiple bottle rockets and a lone black 
glove in his shorts pocket.
Smart admitted to touching 
different cars, but he said he 
didn’t take anything, according to 
the report.
Police charged Smart with ﬁ  ve 
counts of burglary and larceny and took him to the Alachua 
County Jail, where he remains in lieu of a $60,000 bond.
In April, Smart was charged 
with grand theft auto after 
police said he stole a truck from Gainesville Buick GMC, according to Alachua County court records.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  Police: suspected burglar found with $4.50, bottle rockets
Smart
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Registered voters who want 
to receive mail-in ballots for Tues-day’s election must request them 
today by 5 p.m., according to a 
statement issued by Pam Carpen-ter, the Alachua County supervisor of elections.Voters may request the ballots 
by visiting votealachua.com or 
calling 352-374-5252, according to 
the statement.
For mail-in votes to count, vot-
ers must mail them in ﬁ  ve days prior to the election, according to 
the statement. 
Ballots cannot be sent to an 
address other than the one on ﬁ  le with the Supervisor of Elections 
Ofﬁ  ce without approval from the 
voter, and they can’t be forwarded 
by the U.S. Postal Service, accord-ing to the statement.
All mail-in ballots must be re-
ceived in the ofﬁ  ce by 7 p.m. Tues-
day, according to the statement. A 
24-hour mail-drop box is stationed outside the ofﬁ  ce, located at 515 N. Main St., Suite 300.
The signatures submitted with 
ballots must match the signatures on ﬁ  le, according to the statement. Voters can update their signatures by ﬁ  lling out a voter-registration form in person or online.
However, all signature updates 
must have already been received by the ofﬁ  ce, according to the statement.
If a voter sends a mail-in bal-
lot without his or her signature in-cluded, he or she may submit an 
afﬁ  davit to the elections ofﬁ  ce by 
5 p.m. Monday, according to the statement.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org  Deadline to request absentee ballots 5 p.m. todayBy Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A smartphone application that 
offers local discounts if students 
don’t check Facebook during lectures will launch Monday at UF.
Pocket Points, which is available in 65 cities, lets users earn points for discounts if their phones are locked while they’re in 
educational buildings, said Mitch 
Gardner, the chief operating officer 
of the company. 
The stores in Gainesville to offer 
student discounts through the app 
are Office Depot, Hungry Howie’s 
Pizza, High Tides Tobacco and 
Gifts, Big Lou’s NY Style Pizzeria 
and Know Where Coffee, he said.
“We try to find places that 
students love to go to get them 
good deals and discounts,” 
Gardner said.
Gardner said the idea to create 
the app came after he and his business partner were students 
and noticed almost everyone was 
on their phones. 
“Students were always on 
their phone,” the 23-year-old said. “We saw that it was a constant 
problem.” 
The company used Google 
Maps to find buildings on UF’s campus where users can earn 
points, he said.
“Anywhere on campus, you 
can earn points,” he said. “Except 
for dorms.”
If more people are using the 
app in the same area, students can 
earn points faster. 
They can also double the points on Tuesdays, which Gardner calls 
“Two-Times Tuesday.”
Since the app’s launch in 
2014, it has reached about 25 percent of students in 65 cities, he 
said, including Miami, Orlando, 
Tallahassee and Tampa.
At Florida State University and 
the University of Central Florida, he said about 19,000 total students 
are using the app.
Last year, users spent over 650 
million “locked” minutes, or time not spent on their phones during 
classes, through the app, he said. 
Chelsey Mays, 20, has never 
heard of the app but said she would consider using it.
“I feel like it’s something I could 
do, because I try to stay off my 
phone regardless,” the UF animal 
sciences senior said. 
She said that of the local 
businesses partnered with Pocket 
Points, she would do it for Know 
Where Coffee. 
But she’s not sure her peers feel 
the same. 
“I don’t know if students 
are really going to stay off their phones,” she said, “but I think 
the incentive to get points and 
discounts at stores would help.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Hungry students forced to wait in long lines at the 
Chipotle Mexican Grill near UF’s campus may soon find 
relief.
On Sept. 3, a new Chipotle location will open up a 
short drive away — near the intersection of Northwest 13th Street and Northwest 23rd Avenue — said Danielle Moore, a company spokeswoman, in an email Tuesday.
The roughly 2,500-square-foot restaurant will become 
the latest addition at a new strip mall owned by Morse Properties and located at 2225 NW 13th St., according to Alligator archives.
There is no grand opening planned, but every Chipotle 
location will participate in a student-oriented promotion during September, during which students showing valid IDs can receive free drinks, Moore said.
After paying for lunch at the Chipotle on West Uni-
versity Avenue, 18-year-old UF exploratory freshman Mary Anne Tracey said she visits the restaurant “way too much” — up to four times in one week.
She said the demand is high in Gainesville for Chipo-
tle’s brand of fast-casual Tex-Mex, so it makes sense the company would open up a third restaurant in the city.
Because of its convenient location near classroom 
buildings, Tracey said she has been more willing to wait in lines that sometimes take 10 minutes to get through. But with the opening of a location closer to her apartment on Northwest 13th Avenue, Tracey said she may ditch the long lines for a pre-class lunch.
“So yes, I’m definitely excited about it,” she said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
Isabel Bonnet/Alligator Staff
A new Chipotle Mexican Grill, located on the corner of Northwest 13th Street and Northwest 23rd Avenue, is set to open on Sept. 3.
New Chipotle on NW 13th Street to open in SeptemberBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police charged 
a woman with assault Monday 
after they said she bit someone 
at The Oaks Mall and hit the 
person with a calendar.
At about 3:30 p.m., Trayniecea 
Denise Ann Blackett, 20, saw 
a woman who once dated her 
significant other at the Newberry mall, according to a police report.
Blackett told police she had 
approached the woman — who 
was with her children at the 
time — to discuss “relationship issues” before the conversation turned to violence, according to 
the report. When Blackett came 
near, the woman lifted her arm, which Blackett took as a threat.
Blackett then hit the woman 
with a large calendar and bit her, 
the woman said in an interview 
Tuesday. The calendar scratched her eye, and the bite forced her to get a tetanus shot, she said.
The woman, 
who asked not to be named, said she wasn’t 
sure why 
Blackett used the calendar as 
a weapon.
“I guess it was the nearest 
thing in her hand,” she said.
According to Alachua County 
court records, Monday’s incident 
was Blackett’s first run-in with 
police.
Police arrested her on a 
misdemeanor charge of simple battery and took her to the 
Alachua County Jail, where 
she was released on her own recognizance at about noon Tuesday.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgGPD: Local woman 
arrested after hitting woman with calendar
Aaron Albright/Alligator Staff
Pocket Points, a discount app,  
launches at UF on Monday.
Discount app for students who lock 
phones during class to launch Monday
Blackett
CRIME
It happened at Oaks MallWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s College of Nursing named Dr. Jeanne-
Marie Stacciarini its ﬁ  rst director of diversity 
and inclusion this month. 
In the position, Stacciarini, an associate 
professor in the college, will aim to create better dialogue and educate others about the need for diversity. College of Nursing Dean Anna M. McDan-
iel did not say how much Stacciarini was be-
ing paid. 
“I believe that Dr. Stacciarini’s work in this 
area will have a very positive impact for our 
entire college and am conﬁ  dent that positiv-
ity will serve as a model campuswide,” she 
wrote in an email. 
Stacciarini will also work on student and 
faculty recruitment as a director and said she wants to create a better 
working and learning envi-
ronment, she said. 
“As nurses, we need to 
be prepared to care for a 
more diverse patient body 
across the spectrum,” Stac-
ciarini wrote in an email.
Casey Dillon, a UF nurs-
ing graduate and former student of Staccia-rini, said having more diversity in the college 
will help students prepare for nursing careers. 
“This is something that’s really needed, 
because in the world we don’t work with, 
you know, just one type of person, especially 
in nursing,” the 26-year-old said. “We work 
with a wide variety of people every day.”
 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  College of Nursing aims to increase diversity with new directorBy Andronik 
Mkrtychev
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville businesses are 
getting ready for more foot traf-
ﬁ  c as students return to UF and 
Santa Fe College. 
Businesses such as Fork and 
Pasta, Dough Religion Pizza 
and Midnight Cookies are see-
ing between 40- and 75-per-
cent sales increases on aver-age since the start of the Fall semester. To prepare, they’re hiring employees and buying 
more inventory.
Dough Religion, a brick-ov-
en pizzeria on West University 
Avenue, has been hiring back 
students who worked last year, 
said Billy Luecking, a Dough Religion employee. During the Summer lull, many workers leave Gainesville for an intern-
ship or to go home.
This works well, as the res-
taurant experiences a 30-per-
cent sales decrease in Summer, 
he said. 
So far, sales have picked up 
by 70 percent, Luecking said. Dough Religion has started or-dering more food to keep up 
with trafﬁ  c.
“We cannot have enough 
employees during gameday,” he said. 
At Fork and Pasta on West 
University Avenue, staff was prepared to serve more stu-dents. 
Netta Keiden, the owner of 
Fork and Pasta, said he started preparing for students coming back at the end of Summer by ordering extra food. He’ll be 
hiring more staff in the coming 
weeks. 
His business has already 
seen a 75-percent hike in sales, 
up from a 25-percent decrease 
in Summer, he said. 
From the start of classes at 
UF and Santa Fe until mid-Sep-tember, Midnight Cookies rec-
ommends ordering by 8 p.m.
If customers don’t order by 
then, they may be asked to call 
back the next day due to the 
high demand, said John Macal-
lister, a manager at Midnight Cookies. During this time, more employees are hired and those working are given overtime for 
extra hours. 
During Fall, Midnight Cook-
ies, located on 34th Street, sees 
between a 20- and 40-percent increase in sales and foot trafﬁ  c 
from Summer, he said. 
Great Southern Music, locat-
ed on West Newberry Road, is 
barely able to keep up with Fall 
demand come September, said 
Tom Llinas, the store’s owner. 
It provides musical instru-
ments, instrument rentals and music lessons. To keep up with 
rising sales, he’s hiring more 
staff and paying them over-time, he said. 
Come September, they ex-
pect to work with many UF marching-band students who come in for supplies, Llinas said. 
“We are constantly ordering 
more inventory and more rent-als,” he said. “Our new online store has also been experienc-ing much more trafﬁ  c. Me and 
my wife are working overtime, 
from store opening ‘til close.” Sales surge as students return  
Alan Alvarez/Alligator Staff
UF students stop by Pascal’s Coffeehouse on Tuesday 
afternoon to converse over pastries and coffee. Some 
local restaurants and stores have seen an increase in 
sales as students return for the Fall semester.
Stacciarini
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Undocumented is a better term than ‘illegal’
Illegal parkers, illegal drinkers and illegal im-
migrants: What do they have in common?
You’ve probably never heard of the first 
two used that way. Sure, there are people who get parking tickets and drink underage, 
especially in a town like Gainesville, in which parking is so sparse and there are so many peo-
ple under the age of 21. But those people are not 
defined by their actions. It’s more common to say, “I got a parking ticket,” than, “I’m an ille-gal parker.” Likewise, it is more common to say “underage drinking” than “illegal drinking.”
The more commonly used terms are the most accurate; 
they reflect what the offense actually is.
What illegal parking, drinking and immigration have in 
common is that all are offenses more accurately defined in another way. The term illegal immigrants, or even worse, “illegals,” makes the people it represents seem like inherent 
criminals. Some may say, if they crossed the border illegal-
ly, who knows what else they will do? No one says, “Some jerk parked over the line in the Commuter Lot — must be a murderer or a rapist!”
There’s a difference between civil and criminal offenses. 
Murder and underage drinking are both illegal, but one is commonly considered more severe than the other. Accord-ing to tolerance.org, “Federal immigration law says that unlawful presence in the country is a civil offense and is, 
therefore, not a crime. The punishment is deportation.”
With any other offense, such false equivalency is con-
sidered ridiculous. It’s the reason not all crimes warrant a life sentence in prison. Crossing a border without 
papers does not mean anything about how good someone is — it’s literally just not having papers. 
According to the American Immigration Council, 
“Immigrants are less likely than the native-born to engage in criminal behavior.” The notion that living in the country without documents is a 
gateway to more crime is ridiculous.
According to a study by the Institute on Taxa-
tion and Economic Policy cited in a U.S. News 
and World Report, one-third of undocumented immigrants 
pay property taxes, 50 percent pay income tax, and 75 per-
cent pay into Social Security. Despite these facts, there’s 
still a widespread belief that undocumented immigrants don’t contribute as much to society as “everyone else.”
Immigrating to the U.S. is a convoluted process that can 
only be made easier by either marrying a citizen or being born in the U.S. While some may think undocumented im-migrants “took a shortcut” out of laziness or ignorance, this underestimates the difficulty of immigrating to the U.S. It’s not like someone who wants to immigrate here can just 
snap his or her fingers and get a permanent resident card. If 
undocumented immigrants tried to get to the U.S. through “the line,” they would still be waiting, because it doesn’t really exist.
Words matter, and although some may believe the term 
undocumented is a politically correct attempt to censor the truth, it’s not. Let’s start calling it what it is and stop vili-fying people for trying to better their lives when the odds are stacked against them. It’s the best way to characterize 
this type of immigration, which comes with its own set of 
challenges — such as a fear of deportation and the potential breaking up of a family whose members might have mixed immigration statuses.
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and journalism 
junior. Her column usually appears on Mondays.Lost in a sea of 
Trump #2K16
The media needs to relax its relentless Trump coverage. It’s 
already caused a lot of damage, and it will only continue to get worse.
Earlier this month, Jim Rutenberg wrote a column for 
The New York Times originally titled “Trump Is Testing 
the Norms of Objectivity in Journalism.” In it, he comments on the ethical difficulties many non-opinion journalists feel about covering Trump.
How can we remain objective and fair when we know how 
dangerous Trump would be in the White House? This is the co-nundrum many journalists find themselves in. And according to some, the answer, the almighty way to dump Trump, is to report on Trump aggressively and with fierce opposition. 
As reported in the column, Carolyn Ryan, The New York 
Times’ senior editor for politics, argues that, given Trump’s threats and disturbing actions, he deserves “copious coverage and aggressive coverage.” Ryan went on to say Trump’s candida-cy is “extraordinary and precedent-shattering,” and “to pretend otherwise is to be disingenuous with readers.”
We agree; it’s disingenuous to readers to misrepresent reality. 
But it’s also disingenuous to readers for the media to proceed as if they bare little to no responsibility in getting Trump this far.
There are consequences to this nearly 14-month haze of 
Trump-induced news cycles. Big media can’t expect “aggressive” coverage to clean up the mess it’s invested in, giving $2 billion worth (and counting) of free advertising to Trump and casting a national spotlight on his controversies and tenuous relationship with facts and reality.
This isn’t to say aggressive anti-Trump coverage is pointless, 
but it’s definitely along the lines of too little, too late. Media fig-ures who prioritize the best interests of the country over ratings wouldn’t have put Trump on a pedestal to begin with.
Put it this way: When Leslie Moonves, the executive chairman 
and CEO of CBS Corporation, speaks of the Trump campaign and says, “It may not be good for America, but it’s damn good for CBS,” and goes on to say, “The money’s rolling in, and this is fun,” we the people have a serious problem on our hands. 
So, at this point, what can we do? What we should have been 
doing with Trump this entire time: only talk about him when does something newsworthy. Otherwise, don’t talk about him.  We’re not suggesting censorship by any means, but Trump’s con-
troversies don’t deserve to be front-page, breaking news or trend-
ing on all social media.
Trump proposes a new policy idea — like the wall or mass de-
portations — or reporters dig up new developments on his bank-ruptcies or long list of business failures despite his “I’m-the-best” persona? Cover it. That’s newsworthy, and the American people can benefit from knowing about it.
But Trump ripping into Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski, 
the two hosts of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” and claiming they’re 
having an affair? Or his statements about Megyn Kelly, or never-
ending remarks about the Khan family? None of that deserves major headlines or discussion in the media, because it’s all about as newsworthy as a car-sales ad. You know what, no: A car ad would actually benefit more people than providing aggressive and oppositional coverage of these sensationalist “controversies.”
Ever since Trump announced his candidacy June 16, 2015, far 
too many figures in the media have consistently underestimated his electability and underplayed their role in his success. To think 
giving “copious” and “aggressive” coverage to Trump is the best 
means of stopping him, at this point, is naive.
As a country, we need to get serious about why we got here 
and how we need to move forward on behalf of the people’s best interests.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORNicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
“The notion that living in the country 
without documents is a gateway to 
more crime is ridiculous.”WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
At the end of the “Some-
thing Wall-Mart This Way Comes” episode of 
“South Park,” Stan and 
Kyle are face-to-face 
with the evil force behind the town of South Park’s addiction 
to consumption: “Wall-Mart,” 
in the flesh. The town has been colonized with the irresistibly low prices and bargain deals of the “Wall-Mart.” The local community is disintegrat-
ing, because no one shops anywhere else. 
Stan’s father, Randy, is the town’s most helpless victim: a man who forsakes his job to work at "Wall-Mart" for the minute 
employee discount. In an absurd sequence 
of events — it’s “South Park” we’re talk-ing about — the boys find themselves at the heart of South Park’s problems, as usual.
“Wall-Mart” instructs the boys to walk 
over to the plasma TVs in order to see the “heart” of “Wall-Mart.” They do so and find they are looking into a mirror. Humor 
aside, this, I think, is a brilliant critique 
of our consumer culture. The point of this episode is to say such massive companies like Wal-Mart, Amazon.com Inc., Apple Inc., Starbucks Corp., McDonald’s Corp., 
etc. exist because we want them to. We, 
as a culture, couldn’t care less about the local community, small business and the plight of the little man, so long as we have 
our creature comforts at an affordable 
price. These monopolies profit from our desires.
I use this example from “South Park” 
as a lens through which we can see a re-
cent phenomenon: the rise of mega-com-
puter-generated-imagery blockbusters and the obsession with sequels and remakes. Did we really need a new “Independence 
Day,” “Ice Age”or “Ben-Hur”? Or “Dumb 
and Dumber,” “Ride Along” or “Ghost-busters”? It seems as if I read almost every day that an old story is being remade or a once-dead world is being resurrected and 
expanded upon. What does it say about 
our cultural conscience that we would rather watch the same characters in the same worlds doing nearly the same heroic 
deeds against the backdrop of a dreadfully similar narrative tension than 
chance seeing an original film?
To see the movie industry 
lose grasp of its purpose — to not simply entertain, but to challenge beliefs, engage the imagination and allow the view-
er to escape into other worlds in 
order to enlarge the experience of this one — is a travesty. If the 
purpose of film, of art, is to say something meaningful, then maybe today’s film in-
dustry speaks more to our culture than we 
care to admit. 
Maybe we truly have nothing lasting 
to say and can only flee into the fleeting 
embrace of overblown visual effects and 
underwhelming character development. Just as the town of South Park cared only for their immediate pleasure, so too do we center our focus solely on quick bursts 
of entertainment rather than lasting and 
deep works of art.
When thinking of this issue, I am re-
minded of, ironically, a recent film: “Bird-
man or The Unexpected Virtue of Igno-
rance.” A mega-celebrity tries to write, direct and star in his first Broadway play while battling internally with his alter ego: himself as the fictional superhero that 
won him his fame, Birdman. The play is 
costing him a fortune and his sanity. His alter ego tempts him with promises of easy millions made from empty sequels. 
In a disturbing moment, he kills himself 
onstage to the wild applause of his oblivi-ous audience. The crowd members think they witnessed a great show, and they did. But they do not understand that it is their 
insatiable thirst for thoughtless entertain-
ment that has killed him. The man wanted to create art; the crowd wanted him to be Birdman.
I wonder: What will we lose as a cul-
ture if the transcendent voice of good film, of art, is lost amid the incessant chatter of sequels and remakes? In the case of “Birdman,” the artist lost his life as the 
crowd cheered him on. At least it was a 
good show.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and phi-
losophy sophomore. His column appears 
on Wednesdays.Less remakes, more original moviesColumn
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgMost of the time, stu-
dents find themselves engaging in activities 
that help them cope 
with the stress of 
college. Some of these include overeating, getting emotional or 
trying new relaxing experiences. 
Sadly, some of the students start to get involved with harmful activities that dissociate them from their anxiety.
But what does stress really mean? En-
cyclopaedia Britannica defines stress as any physical or environmental change that causes pressure in an organism, which 
consequently produces a response on the 
being in order to survive. Therefore, we can assume the stress we feel during ex-ams, near due dates or while studying is emotional and, thus, we can deal with it 
in a very proactive way.
We must remind ourselves college is a 
stressful time period and a challenge we 
assumed. It will get hard and hectic at 
times, because occasionally things in our 
personal life might interfere, but we must constantly remember not to give in or to quit.
Unfortunately, many people tend to let 
their emotions take over their logic and af-fect their decision-making. Students’ test scores drop, they make wrong choices and, in some cases, they fall into a down-
ward spiral of chaos: for example, party-
ing excessively due to a stressful week, drinking a larger-than-normal amount of alcohol to numb the emotional exhaustion and then driving home in an intoxicated 
state.
In the best-case scenario, DUIs will af-
fect students’ records. In the worst-case 
scenario, this bad decision could harm 
people’s lives permanently.
However, there are many other ways 
we can ease the anxiety and, in the mean-
time, give back to the community, gain some experience and learn some useful 
skills.
As humans, we find comfort in habit 
and routine. Because the stress we are 
dealing with is, in a way, self-executed 
and caused by our own reactions, we can reduce our stress by engaging in 
better habits. Doing so produces a counteracting effect against 
stress, and eventually you can 
flow through due dates with a better state of mind.
By challenging yourself to 
get involved with activities you have never done before, you dare your brain to engage new information and let go for a while. For example, if you are 
taking a chemistry class, take the chal-lenge of getting involved with a sport like running. During your route, try to corre-late familiar objects, such as a stop sign, 
to carbon structures you learned in class.
Try to always stay proactive, and don’t 
allow procrastination to take over your 
day. Change your mentality, and set work 
goals and break periods for yourself. For 
example, if you have Monday off and homework due Friday, just put in the time early on and motivate yourself with a big 
reward over the weekend.
In addition, remember to control your 
intake of chemical substances that might 
interfere with the chemistry inside you. In other words, avoid excess of everything: 
Your body will always resist and respond 
to the effects from those substances.
Stay positive and calm with your head 
held  high. This is a learning process, and 
it is OK to feel the pressure. Seek help, 
tutoring, professional aid, friends’ advice and family care if you feel you need sup-port and assistance. Don’t worry. You can do this.
Andrea Taboada is UF a microbiology se-
nior. Her column appears on Wednesdays.Conquer Fall 2016 with less stressColumn
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
"Stay positive and 
calm with your 
head held high."8   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
Arab Students’ Association member Sana Chaudhry hands baklava, a sweet pastry found in Central 
and West Asia, to 18-year-old Benjamin Grossman at the Volunteers for International Student Affairs’ multicultural fair on Flavet Field on Tuesday.
UF journalism sophomore Naba Zabih, 19, tosses a dice while playing Ludo, a traditional 
Pakistani game in which players move four pieces from start to ﬁ  nish. The multicultural 
fair featured other cultural games, food and performances from 20 student organizations. 
Psychology freshman Samuel Cockey, 19, hits a tennis ball with a cricket bat. “My friend is Bengali, so he has shown me a lot of videos, ” he said. “I like how with the bar, you put your whole body weight into your swing. It’s different from baseball, but it’s cool. ”
Zachariah Chou/Alligator Staff
Visa3
Visa4
Radha Selvester of Days for Girls International’s Alachua County chapter speaks with advertising se-nior DeAshton Jones, 21, and the Student Government executive branch at the Black Student Union table. Days for Girls International provides reusable feminine hygiene items to girls around the world who lack access.A MULTICULTURAL CARNIVAL 
Zachariah Chou
Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
Kelsey Bona/Alligator Staff
GOOD FOOD, BETTER COMPANY
Nineteen-year-old sophomores Lucia Golletti, Michelle Lasa and Samantha Arampatzis sit and 
eat after buying Asian cuisine at the Kappa Phi Lambda Sorority fundraiser at Lollicup on Tuesday afternoon.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Cody Miller tells his 
students about the love between 
Romeo and Juliet, he tells them 
to imagine them as a same-sex 
couple. 
“We use literature as a way to 
teach bigger issues in society,” 
the 27-year-old UF English doc-
toral student said. 
The ninth-grade teacher at 
P.K. Yonge Developmental School challenges his students to think 
about current events and social 
issues, and in July, he received an award that recognized his cur-riculum. The Southern Poverty Law 
Center awarded Miller and four 
others the 2016 Teaching Toler-
ance Award for their efforts to emphasize inclusivity and diver-sity in the classroom. The nation-al award is given every two years.  
Miller said he wasn’t aware of 
any other UF students who have received the award. 
A fellow teacher encouraged 
him to submit an application for the award last Fall. When he found out he had won, Miller said he felt like he ﬁ  nally reached the level of teaching that he aimed 
for.
He said he avoids teaching 
diversity “simply for diversity’s sake.” 
“Part of doing the type of work 
I believe in makes sure there’s 
room for everybody in your cur-riculum,” he said. “Giving them a critical eye to be aware of the messages they’re getting every 
day, I think, is really important.” 
Miller realized his passion for 
teaching when he began tutor-
ing fellow students at UF, but he 
said his interest for social justice 
never faded. 
He said teaching allows him to 
make a difference in the world.
“I do think the work of teach-
ers is sacred,” he said. 
Ester de Jong, the director 
of UF’s School of Teaching and Learning, taught Miller in one of her master’s classes in Fall 2011. 
De Jong said she remembers how 
he managed to get along with ev-eryone in her class. 
She said 
Miller’s style of 
teaching, which 
focuses on toler-
ance and diver-sity, should be 
the norm in the 
classroom.
“That reﬂ  ec-
tive process we try to instill in all our students,” she said. “He 
always connected the things we 
were doing in class to the things going on in the world. It was re-ally nice to have him in class ask-ing the bigger questions.” 
Glenn Good, the dean of the 
College of Education, said Mill-er’s work reﬂ  ects on the college’s efforts to address social dispari-ties in the classroom. 
Although he doesn’t know 
Miller personally, Good said the award speaks volumes for the col-lege. 
“Certainly no one to my 
knowledge in the last ﬁ  ve years has won this award,” he said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  
 UF student recognized for teaching tolerance, diversityBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
After a shooting in a crowded home left one 
man dead and a toddler wounded last month, 
Gainesville Police has increased its reward for any information leading to an arrest.
Antonio Mason, 35, died 
July 27 after being shot by two masked men in a late-night 
home invasion in the 800 
block of NW Fourth Place, ac-
cording to a statement issued 
by GPD.
The assailants shot Ma-
son in the chest as he held 
his 11-month-old daughter, who was shot in 
the arm, according to the statement. The child 
and another wounded man, 21, sustained non-life-threatening injuries, but Mason died at the scene.
To encourage witnesses to speak up, GPD 
ﬁ  rst issued a $3,000 reward for information that would lead to an arrest. However, after not re-ceiving enough tips, the department increased the reward to $5,000, according to a statement 
released Tuesday.
After the shooting, witnesses said, the sus-
pects left the area before ofﬁ  cers arrived, accord-
ing to the statement.
GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said de-
tectives are chasing leads but have not identiﬁ  ed any persons of interest.
Tobias said the department has been re-inter-
viewing witnesses, analyzing forensic evidence and pleading for information from the public.
“Our detectives are working very, very hard 
to piece this together,” he said.
Anyone with information is encouraged to 
call detectives at 352-393-7670 or Crime Stop-pers at 352-392-STOP. Those who wish to re-main anonymous can call in tips to 352-3939-7700 or text “GPDFL” and the tip to 274637.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org GPD increases reward in search 
Miller
Mason
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1BR in 4BR/4BA furn apt. Countryside $325/
mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students pref. ST lease option avail. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-25-16-19-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.3BR/2BA, MANY AMENITIES. $800/moSPARROW CONDOS. 15 min to UF by bus.Call 850-974-0686      8-25-16-5-2
2BR/1BA in NW. Available 9/1/16. Comes with W/D. New kitchen, bath, wood floors. Large backyard. $675/mo. Please leave message 352-371-3473     8-31-16-9-2
2/1 Brandywine $650/mo + $650 dep. Hi spd internet & water incl. <1mi to UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopping. On bus route. Avail Aug 15. Text 352.284.2654 or jrfong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-2
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $500/
BR or $1800/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    
8-31-16-8-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
Female roommate for BR w/ pvt BA in house off SW ARcher Rd. $115/ wk + 1/2 utils. No children or pets. Please call for an interview 770-823-7099    8-26-4-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
2 Bd/1Ba Brandywine Condo $52,000. Newly renovated, on 1st floor, bus routes. Pool & clubhouse. Near UF, Shands, VA, I-75 & shopps. Text 352.284.2654 or jr-fong00@yahoo.com      9-1-16-10-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress SaleNew - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Brand new 2015 Vespa Sprint 150 scooter, Gator blue. Anti-lock brakes, storage area, sport design saddle, rectangular headlight. 60's style. Top speed: 59MPH. 117mpg. ONLY $4700 (original price $5900) Text 352-514-3963.    8-25-16-3-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. 
$2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-
8-122014 YAMAHA 250CC MOTORCYCLE
Very low miles, white, great condition. $2800. 
Call 352-372-2815     8-26-16-6-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
LOW MILE. Cherry of a car. 2006 Pontiac Grand prix GT, 67K miles.Prem options, Supchgr. White, w/ blk & tan Lthr, 1 owner, Maintianed, Must See to appreciate! $7K OBO. Call 352-332-6333. or 352-328-6934     8-26-16-5-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
ARE YOU A SPORTS FAN? GET PAID
to promote a NEW LIVE Sports App
created by the makers of Madden
Football! GO TO:
www.letsplaysportsgames.com
8-24-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-2-16-12-14
WATER TREATMENT TECHNICIAN5 Years experience & clean driving record required. Salary + Benefits.Local family owned business for over 30years!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com     8-25-16-5-14
ADMIN/MARKETING ASSISTANTFast growing family business seeking full time professional. Salary commensurate with experience. Full benefits available.resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
EXPERIENCED  ADMIN. ASSISTANT
Part Time & Flexible Hours! Microsoft Office & Outlook required.  Join our team!resumes@bestwatersolutions.com      8-25-16-5-14
Earn While You Learn 
     TEXT Marketing      Immediate/monthly residual income      Hank: 352-283-38808-26-16-5-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Just open
5 Hot under the
collar
10 Loot from a heist
14 Dainty trim
15 West Indies
volcano
16 Site of Napoleon’s
first exile
17 Tweak some
violin holders?
20 Maker of many
kitchen rolls
21 Wall St. deal22 Baking soda
targets
23 Like used
fireplaces
25 Tach nos.
27 Tweak some
church chimers?
34 Brit. record label
35 A few bucks?36 Fuss over37 Part of a sitcom
farewell
39 Pulled off41 Spot for a 
48-Across
42 Representatives45 Nintendo rival48 Short snooze49 Tweak some ski
parkas?
52 __ helmet
53 Pre-coll. catchall
54 Torch job
57 And such: Abbr.59 Trims, as a lawn63 Tweak some
business outfits?
66 Arctic formation67 Transparent68 Scientology guru
Hubbard
69 Like most
fairways, daily
70 Some Parliament
members
71 A whole bunch
DOWN
1 NATO alphabet
starter
2 Monopoly corner3 Adapter letters4 New Jersey’s
state tree
5 Chest thumper6 One recently
hitched7 Smooth-talking
8 Parting shot9 Slangy “Sure”
10 Hands-free
devices
11 To boot
12 Lyft rival
13 Scottish miss18 Performed light
surgery on?
19 Jazz club
performers
24 Eur. power until
1806
26 Third deg.?27 Midmorning 
hour
28 Reflection29 Little League
teams
30 Like Oscar
Wilde
31 Big name in
spaghetti
westerns
32 OK for dieters
33 Breaks like a
branch
38 Implied
40 Down in the
dumps
43 Shipping
department
supply44 Lab order?
46 Milk purch.47 Feels the pain50 “My Generation”
band
51 Portmanteau for
a grown-up whohasn’t yet grownup
54 Switch on a
boom box
55 Caramel-filled
candy56 Put one over on58 Stadium ticket
specification
60 Copter’s
forerunner
61 David
Cameron’s almamater
62 Three-part figs.64 Monogram on
some priceyhandbags
65 Store door nos.
By Gail Grabowski and Bruce Venzke©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/24/1608/24/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, August 24, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. HISTORY: Which two towns were 
destroyed by the eruption of Mount 
Vesuvius in 79 AD?
2. GEOGRAPHY: In what country is 
the Abel Tasman National Park locat-ed?
3. ANATOMY: How many vertebrae 
are in the human body?
4. LITERATURE: In 1961, this 
author published a selection of mys -
tery stories for young readers titled “Thirteen for Luck”?
5. MOVIES: Which Alfred Hitch-
cock movie ends with a scene on Mount Rushmore? 
6. MONEY: How much was the Brit-
ish farthing worth when it went out of circulation in 1960?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who served 
as the 16th president of the United States?
8. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
Which ancient region’s name means “between two rivers”?
9. MEDICINE: The drug digitalis is 
derived from which flower?
10. ASTRONOMY: How often is 
Halley’s Comet visible from Earth?
Answers
1. Pompeii and Herculaneum2. New Zealand
3. 33
4. Agatha Christie5. “North by Northwest”6. One quarter of a penny7. Abraham Lincoln8. Mesopotamia
9. Foxglove
10. Every 75 or 76 years
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 22, 2016 King Features Weekly Service
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
ANIMAL SCIENCE INTEREST?
----INTERN WANTEDGAIN EXOTIC ANIMAL EXPERIENCECONTACT GAINESVILLE RABBIT RESCUEEmail betsyday@ufl.edu for information     8-26-16-5-14
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Now Hiring
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted to 
work with elementary school children doing 
arts & crafts, sports, Dance and
much more in an after school program
at various schools.
Hours are
M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 & Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders earn $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required,
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action
Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave.
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call Misty @
the EDEP office 955-7766
8-26-16-5-14
Monopoly research study: Looking for participants ages 15-21, Hispanic, born in the US.Call 352-294-5980 or email dmiller5@ufl.edu for more info.     9-2-16-10-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Caregiver neededCompassionate caregiver needed for young lady with disability. Must be at least 18 years old, have a reliable vehicle,  and high school diploma or higher education.Over-nights and weekend shifts available.If interested, please contact Maryam Nikoonejad at (352)246-6039or Mr.Niko at (352)200-1017.        8-29-16-5-14
After School staff needed! Now hiring PT counselors and drivers with a Class A, B or C license! Patience, initiative and a desire to positively impact girls is required! Visit GirlsPlace.net for details!    8-26-16-4-14
National ATM’s is hiring workers to assist with ATM sales & marketing. Great for Student, flex hrs. Outgoing personality a+! Support & Training assistance. Commission $50.-$100. per location. Call 352-363-8373 or email re-sume to info@nationaleventatms.com    8-29-16-5-14
Babysitter wanted, afternoons/evenings, $12/hr for kids age 7-13. Help drive kids from school/to activities, light housekeeping (dish-es, laundry, feed meals), play with 7 yr old, help with homework. Babysitting experience and car required, must be reliable. Email re-sume and references to rosenson@ufl.edu    8-25-16-3-14
ABA Associates is seeking graduate or un-dergraduates in Psych, Special Ed, or re-lated field to work with individuals with de-velopmental disabilities. Interest in Behavior Analysis, diet and exercise is a plus. Please email Mark at lister@abaassociates.net for more information.     8-30-16-5-14
Lloyd Clarke Sports, 1 mile North of UF on 13th St, is seeking a friendly, caring and reliable sales team member. Position is 25-30 hr/wk including 1 weekend day. Apply in person to 1504 NW 13th St. No phone calls    8-26-16-3-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Highland Lawn Maintenance
Is your yard in need of help? We provide 
quality lawn service that you can afford. We 
offer one time clean-ups as well as monthly 
service. Give us a call @ 352-514-5973.    
8-29-16-5-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
22 Tickets
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Be Your Own Boss!
AAA Real Estate School is
offering a live real estate
licensing course starting 9/6.
Call 352-225-4653      8-30-16-5-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu.    10-4-30-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15
15 Services 19 Connections 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
"Yeah, I didn't think people were going to scream out my name after an extra point, so that was pretty interesting."
- Eddie Pineiro
Florida kickerLuke Del Rio was recently named Florida's starting quarterback, but he's not UF's only player to watch this season.Check out our full list on pg. 16
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
When Bryan Cox walks up 
to the left side of the line of 
scrimmage and squares his 
6-foot-3, 269-pound frame 
toward the quarterback, he has his eyes set on one player: sophomore offensive lineman 
Fred Johnson.
“He don’t want none of this,” Cox said.
Last year, Florida’s 
offensive line didn't perform up to coach Jim McElwain's 
standards.
They allowed just over 
three sacks per game, worse 
than 120 FBS teams.  McElwain 
has acknowledged the line's ﬂ  aws and has repeatedly called last year’s sack total “unacceptable.”Since the start of preseason 
practice in early August, Florida’s defensive line has 
tried to help improve the 
offensive line each day.
So far, the defensive line’s 
mindset has been embodied 
in the play of Cox, a player 
who routinely beats the younger linemen off the line of scrimmage during Fall camp.
“He doesn’t take plays off,” McElwain said of Cox. “He’s somebody our young guys have been able to look at and 
say, ‘This is how you go about 
your practice habits.’ He plays the game hard.”
Along the defensive 
line, UF has no shortage of playmakers. Caleb Brantley — who started 10 games last season — ﬁ  lls the middle.  Veterans looking to patch up 
Florida’s porous oﬀ  ensive line
UF allowed over three sacks per game in 2015
JOHNNY TOWNSEND 
WAS FEATURED ON THE 
2016 RAY GUY AWARD 
PRESEASON WATCH LIST. 
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
There weren’t many players 
Florida's football team leaned on 
as much as Johnny Townsend last year.The redshirt junior punter 
repeatedly delivered for Florida, ﬂ  ipping ﬁ  elds with his booming kicks and ﬁ  nishing among the nation’s top 10 punters for the Ray Guy Award. He did it all while posting a Southeastern Conference-most 83 punts and the 10th-highest average yards per punt (45.36) in the country.
But now, Townsend has his 
sights set on becoming the best, and a familiar face sharing the ﬁ  eld with him might give him the slight edge he’s been looking for.
Townsend’s younger brother, 
Tommy, is now his teammate. He transferred from Tennessee over the summer after redshirting as a freshman and moved in with Townsend when their eldest brother, Clay, departed for UCF’s medical school this year.
As many brothers do, the two 
compete with each other often.
“I’ve been working with him since I was a freshman in high school, so we get to train a lot with each other and go at it back and forth,” Townsend said. “Being able to compete with each other makes us both better, so it deﬁ  nitely helps in the long run.”
Tommy, who stands at 6-foot-1 
like his brother, was one of the top-ranked punters in the class of 2015 coming out of Orlando’s Boone High School. Townsend said he has a chance to have a similarly bright future at Florida thanks to his height and athleticism.
The goal for the two, Townsend 
said, is to leave their marks on the program and hopefully play in the NFL.
“Sort of like the Colquitts,” 
Townsend said, referring to current NFL punters Dustin and Britton Colquitt, who both attended Tennessee in the 2000s. “That’s 
One town, two Townsends: Punting brothers helping each other grow 
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF center Cameron Dillard prepares to snap the ball during the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut on April 8 at Ben  
Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. Dillard is among UF's veterans tasked with leading the next generation of offensive linemen. 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
The top two safeties in Florida’s 2013 recruiting 
class have taken strikingly different paths so far 
in their young careers. 
One of them is Keanu Neal, 
who was rated as a four-star prospect out of South Sumter 
High School. 
He was the No. 13-rated 
safety in the country according to the 24/7 Sports Composite, and last season, the junior led UF’s defensive backs in tackles 
before bolting for the NFL. 
The Atlanta Falcons apparently liked his 
coverage skills and big-hit ability enough to select him with the 17th pick of the ﬁ  rst round. 
Then there’s Marcell Harris. 
The Orlando native was rated ahead of Neal 
when the two were recruits — Harris was the No. 
10 safety in the class. 
But while Neal is off enjoying his $6 million 
signing bonus with the Falcons, Harris is entering 
his redshirt junior season with the Gators ﬁ  ghting 
for the starting spot Neal left behind. 
But he said he isn’t worried about meeting or 
exceeding the expectations set by Neal, current teammate Marcus Maye or anyone else, even in 
his fourth year. He just wants to play football and 
be as good at it as possible. 
“Pressure wise, I don’t try to put too much 
pressure on myself,” he said. 
“Football is just a game… it’s something I love 
to do, so I come out here with a passion to be great.” With time 
running out, UF defensive back wants to be great
SEE GATORS,  PAGE 15SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE HARRIS,  PAGE 15Harris
14   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Danny Weldon (59) participates in tackling drills while Florida’s linebackers 
coach Randy Shannon (left) looks on.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Freshmen Feleipe Franks (13) and Kyle Trask (11) participate in throwing drills during Florida’s practice on Tuesday at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Jarrad Davis (right) takes a break from practice and talks with teammate Alex Anzalone (left). Davis is expected to be the leader of Florida’s linebackers -in 2016.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Josh Hammond catches a ball during route-running drills. The freshman is competing for playing time among UF’s wide receivers.
Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway (left) begins to sprint down the field while Florida’s other wide receivers talk. Callaway led UF with 678 receiving yards and tied for first with four touchdowns last season.
PRESEASON 
PREPARATION
Less than two weeks before its season opener, the Florida football team is looking to solidify its starters at multiple positions. Players underwent route-running, tackling, throwing and kicking drills Wednesday night as the Gators continue to fine-tune their play ahead of their matchup with Massachusetts on Sept. 3. WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Senior Joey Ivie, redshirt junior 
Jordan Sherit, sophomore CeCe 
Jefferson and Cox look to be major 
contributors as well.
And they all take pride in 
attacking UF’s offensive linemen 
each practice.
“It deﬁ  nitely is one of the best D-Lines in the country,” junior 
offensive lineman David Sharpe said. 
“It’s hard going against those 
guys every day.” 
Even McElwain has taken 
notice of the increased role of UF’s defensive veterans. 
During one practice last week, 
McElwain took UF’s older players out of a scrimmage to place the emphasis on the freshmen and sophomores.
As play resumed, McElwain 
heard shouting and clapping from 
the sidelines. He thought it was the 
veterans fooling around. 
But as he turned, McElwain saw 
UF’s older players coaching the 
younger ones from the side.
“It might not seem like much,” 
McElwain said, “but to me that shows these guys are really into 
this team.” 
Cox agrees. Entering his ﬁ  fth year at Florida, 
he’s bided his time behind several versions of talented UF defensive lines that featured several early NFL Draft picks, including 
Jonathan Bullard, Dante Fowler 
Jr., Dominique Easley and Sharrif Floyd.And now, in his ﬁ  nal year at 
Florida, Cox wants to set the same precedent for UF’s younger players that was set for him year after year.
“It’s just out of the good of my 
heart. I’m trying to get the team better,” Cox said. “And I think we really have a strong group.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 13Cox learned behind future NFL players Easley, Fowler and Floyd
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Marcell Harris tackles Mark Thompson during the 2016 Orange and Blue Debut on April 8. 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Johnny T ownsend signs a fan's chest after the Orange and Blue Debut on April 8 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Being great is something Harris 
mentioned several times while speaking with reporters on Tuesday. 
But how does he go about trying 
to be great?
First, he said, is digesting the 
teachings of his coaches, speciﬁ  cally 
those of defensive backs coach 
Torrian Gray. 
Doing so means less 
miscommunications and better technique. 
“He likes to break down ﬁ  lm 
and he is a good guy to learn from honestly,” Harris said of Gray. “Breaking things down, working 
on technique, and doing the little 
things right it is all going to help us be a better unit.”
Next is working against a capable 
offense every day in practice.
Harris said there are constant 
trials from “shifty” players like slot receivers Dre Massey and Brandon Powell, pressure over the top from 
an improved passing game led by 
Luke Del Rio and a tackling test in 6-foot-2, 237-pounder running back Mark Thompson. 
“He’s a real big guy,” Harris said 
of Thompson. 
“Everybody knows he’s a big guy. And honestly, I feel like it helps us out as a defense tackling somebody big every day.”
But while those two aspects 
help, Harris gave a simple, one-word reply when asked what he’s trying to improve on this season. 
Everything. “I tried to hit on every point,” he 
said, “and I feel like it made me a lot better player.” 
Time will tell if his work pays 
off with a starting role opposite 
presumed starter Marcus Maye, with 
fellow redshirt junior and former four-star recruit Nick Washington being Harris' main competition. 
But Harris said he doesn’t fear 
a position battle, claiming the old cliche that it will only make him better. 
Still, with time running out, he 
certainly wouldn’t mind coming out on top. 
“I wanna be one of the best 
whoever played this game,” he said. 
He added: “I waited for 
the opportunity, and once the opportunity hits, you have to make the best of whatever you get.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org HARRIS,  from pg 13Harris said Thompson, a UF running back, is the most diicult player to tackle 
something we can try 
to start, a little punting legacy.”
But Townsend knows 
he’s far from being NFL-ready. He still wants to improve the hang times on his punts, as well as force more fair catches and limit long returns.
And because 
specialists in the NFL tend to stick with teams, Townsend won’t have much room for error this season.
“It’s very difﬁ  cult. 
Playing at the next level is one of the toughest things to do, especially as a specialist,” he said. “You have to compete against some veterans that have 
been on the teams for 
such a long time. It’s 
difﬁ  cult at any position to make it at the next level, but especially as a punter or kicker.”
With UF’s season 
opener against Massachusetts less 
than two weeks away, Townsend isn’t worrying about a pro career or anything else that far down the road.
“I’m trying to focus on 
the Gators right now and what I can do to be the best here and leave my mark on this program,” he said.  “That’s really all I’m focused on right now.”
ppinak@alligator.org
@pinakk12 GATORS,  from pg 13Townsend said he needs to improve to fulill his NFL aspirations16   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2016
• Luke Del Rio,  quarterback
-Named the starter Thursday
-10-for-11, 176 yards, two touchdowns in UF’s Spring game-Son of Jack Del Rio, head coach of the Oakland Raiders
• Mark Thompson,  running back
-Transfer from Dodge City Community College in Kansas-At 6-foot-2, 237 pounds, he’s Florida’s largest running back-Rated as the No. 1 junior college running back in the 2016 recruiting class• Dre Massey,  wide receiver
-Transfer from Holmes Community College in Mississippi-Coach Jim McElwain said he plans to utilize Massey’s versatility in the return game-Caught six touchdowns on 548 yards receiving at HCC in 2015
  
• Jalen T abor,  cornerback
-2015 All-Southeastern Conference first team-Named to ESPN’s preseason All American team-Four interceptions, 14 pass breakups in 2015
• CeCe Jefferson,  defensive line
-Led all Florida freshmen with 29 tackles in 2015-No. 2 rated defensive end coming out of high school-Played in all 14 games in 2015 and started four of them as a freshman 
• Alex Anzalone, linebacker
-Missed most of the 2015 season with a shoulder injury -Has 22 career tackles in limited playing time-One of three upperclassmen, non-walk-on linebackers on the team
 
• Martez Ivey,  offensive line
-Started eight games in 2015-Named to 2015 SEC Coaches All-Freshman T eam-No. 1 rated tackle coming out of high school
• Eddy Pineiro,  special teams
-Made 3-of-5 field goals — including one from 56 yards — in UF’s Spring game-Has never kicked in a DI college football game-Routinely kicks 60+ yard field goals in practice Players to Watch in 2016
Alligator File Photo
Florida linebacker Alex Anzalone (left) talks with teammate Kylan Johnson (mid-
dle) during a Spring practice at the Sanders Practice Fields. 
