We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 83 TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
Florida not shying away 
from NCAA tournement
Despite six losses, Gators are on 
track to make tournament, pg. 13
Break out the condoms: designing with latex
Education honorary to host condom contest, pg. 4
Researchers report dangers of hookah
A recent report shows hookah may cause more tar buildup than a cigarette, pg. 5Hundreds March for MLK Day 
Check out the story and photo story , pgs. 8-9
Lauren Johnson/Alligator Staff
THE COLORS OF THE WIND
The ﬁ  rst wave of runners dashes off the starting line during the Color In Motion 5K run at the Alachua 
County Fairgrounds on Saturday morning. Turn to page three for the full story and more photos.
CAMPUS
By Gabrielle Calise
Alligator Contributing Writer
Up to four new student start-
ups will move into the Reitz 
Union next Fall.
The Gator Hatchery, which is 
run out of the UF Entrepreneur-ship and Innovation Center, provides workspaces, support 
and networking opportunities 
for students who want to start their own businesses. It started January 2015 in Bryan Hall with eight companies, but now it has 
13 resident startups and six vir-
tual startups.
The Hatchery’s new startups 
will be retail-based and selected during the third annual Big Idea Gator Business Plan Competi-tion, said Nola Miyasaki, the ex-
ecutive director of outreach and 
incubation at the Gator Hatch-ery.
The competition will allow 
students to compete for one of the spots in the Reitz by pre-senting their business plans, she said.
More than $40,000 will be 
awarded at the end of the com-petition, Miyasaki said. They have already received 295 en-tries from UF students.
Over the course of the next 
few months, judges will narrow down the pool of applicants to the top 16 teams that will com-pete in the semiﬁ  nals April 21. 
The ﬁ  rst-place team will receive 
$25,000.
The Gator Hatchery will se-
lect the best business proposals to work in its new startup space at the Reitz Union, Miyasaki said.
The Hatchery opened startup space at Inﬁ  nity Hall in October.
Armand Sepulveda, 22, 
moved his startup, Dycap Media Capture Solutions, to Inﬁ  nity Hall from Bryan Hall in October, he said.  
Dycap creates software 
that automates ﬁ  lming for live events, the UF telecommunica-tion senior said.
He said he founded Dycap 
after a men’s basketball game against Kentucky in March 2014. Sepulveda was ﬁ  lming the game as a freelancer for ESPN when Gator player Patric Young 
fell on him.
Sepulveda said he realized 
there could be a safer way to 
cover events.
They ran Dycap out of a 
kitchen until they applied for 
space at Gator Hatchery, he 
said.
“We wouldn’t be where we 
are today without the guidance 
and facilities and resources that 
the Gator Hatchery has given us,” Sepulveda said.  
Startups that apply to the 
Gator Hatchery need at least 
one UF student on the team and 
must present a business plan, Miyasaki said. If selected, resi-dent startups are granted access 
to free communal workspaces.
Sepulveda said working in 
Gator Hatchery has exposed him 
and his group to Gainesville’s entrepreneurial community.
After he leaves Gator Hatch-
ery, he said he wants to ﬁ  nd in-vestors for Dycap and continue 
coming up with new ideas for 
startups.
“Everybody has great ideas,” 
he said. “It’s really the execu-
tion of it.”Reitz to house 
new startup businesses in Fall 
By RaSheba Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF and Santa Fe College stu-
dents picked up trash around 
Gainesville on Monday.
About 200 students volun-
teered at about 11 different loca-tions as part of the UF Center for 
Leadership and Service’s Martin 
Luther King Day of Service. Stu-dents serve the local community during the event, one of the Cen-ter’s three annual projects.
Dave Kratzer, UF’s vice presi-
dent for student affairs, said it is important for students to remem-ber their history. He said he was 
proud of the number of students who came out in the cold weath-er.
“On a long weekend when a 
lot of students could be sleeping 
in or doing something else, these 
students have chosen to give back 
to our community, Gainesville,” Kratzer said.
The event honored Martin Lu-
ther King Jr.’s ﬁ  ght against racism 
by having students help others, 
said Cara Snider, the AmeriCorps VISTA for the Center. She said she will volunteer with UF for one 
year through AmeriCorps VISTA.
“This is to honor the legacy 
of Dr. Martin Luther King,” the 
22-year-old said.She said she hopes more stu-
dents participate in the future.
Lisette Pellot, a UF political 
science freshman, said she volun-teered with Keep Alachua County Beautiful to help the community.
“One of the things I (learned) 
at the site leader meetings is they considered MLK day a ‘day on,’ not a day off,” the 18-year-old said.UF, Santa Fe students give back  
The event honored MLK 
“On a long weekend when 
a lot of students could 
be sleeping in or doing 
something else, these students 
have chosen to give back to 
our community, Gainesville.” 
Dave Kratzer
UF’s vice president 
for student affairs“W e wouldn’t be where we are today without the guidance and 
facilities and resources that the Gator Hatchery has given us.”
Armand Sepulveda
founder of Dycap Media Capture SolutionsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
UF School of Art + Art History’s 
51st Annual Faculty 
Exhibition
University Galleries at UF is 
pleased to present the 51st Annual Faculty Exhibition starting Jan. 12 until Jan. 29 in 
the University Gallery, situated 
in Fine Arts Building B.  2016 International Brass 
Festival: Year of the TrumpetThe UF School of Music is pleased to present the 2016 International Brass Festival: Year of the Trumpet at the UF 
School of Music, from Jan. 23 
to Jan. 25. The three-day event is free and open to the public.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to mgracehenley@alligator.org.
 
CORRECTION:
In an article on Jan. 15, ti-
tled “New roof, new year: Renovations begin at the 
College of Music,” the Alligator 
incorrectly labeled the School of Music as the College of Music.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 83
HIGH  52° LOW  28°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
Reduce your showertime by 2 min.TICK.TOCK.
Preserve waterTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Lauren Johnson
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the name of fun and charity, 
Athena Conde threw colored powder 
at runners Saturday.
Conde, 12, said she volunteered 
at the Color In Motion 5k to support 
the Gainesville chapter of the Epi-
lepsy Foundation of Florida.
Even more so, Conde said she 
enjoyed coating people in shades of 
blue, yellow, orange and green.
“Runners are not colorful 
enough,” Conde said excitedly. “I 
can’t wait to go back to school to tell people why my face is blue.”
During the event, which was 
sponsored by EFOF and held at the Alachua County Fairgrounds, volun-teers coated runners in biodegrad-able powder during an untimed race.
Blaine Hawkes, a Color In Motion 
5k manager, said about 500 people participated in the event.
The money raised will go toward 
maintenance and utilities at EFOF to help the organization keep its lights on while hosting programs in areas such as stress management, said Mandy Hancock, the community de-velopment manager for EFOF.
EFOF also provides educational 
services to the community, along with case management and medical services to those who are unable to see a neurologist or pay for medica-tion, Hancock said.
“Everyone probably knows 
someone with epilepsy,” she said. 
“Getting those services and informa-
tion out to people is invaluable.”
Cade Monk, a 14-year-old Buch-
holz High School freshman, was the first to pass the finish line.
“It felt good not seeing anyone 
behind me,” Monk said.
Monk tries to run about two races 
a month.
“I try to run charity races,” he 
said. “Why run for no reason?”John Finnerty, an 18-year-old 
Santa Fe College student, said some volunteers take their job more seri-ously than others.
“Some of the throwers may be a 
bit corrupt,” he said. “They’re half color-throwers, half hitmen.”
As the race ended with a per-
formance by DJ James Phabulous, some people looked forward to the next event.
Volunteer Becky Taylor said 
she’s empathetic toward people with health complications, partly because her 4-year-old daughter suffers from seizures.  
Taylor said she wants to volun-
teer for Color In Motion 5k again.
“I am for anything with a cause,” 
she said. “When it hits home, it means more to you.” Runners coat in powder to raise money for epilepsy foundation
LOCAL
IT WILL TAKE TWO YEARS TO 
DIGITIZE THE BOOKS. 
By Chelsea Hansen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF has received a $79,000 grant to digi-
tize out-of-print books.
The National Endowment for the Human-
ities and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation 
gave UF $79,000 in January to digitize out-of-print books on the history and culture of Florida and the Caribbean. It will take about 
two years to make the books digital.
UF’s libraries selected 46 books pub-
lished from 1968 to 1992 it wanted to digi-
tize. The list will be narrowed down to 30 books by scholarly advisors.
These particular books were selected be-
cause the history and culture of Florida and the Caribbean are some of the university’s major areas of study, said Bess de Farber, 
the grants manager for UF’s libraries.
“The University of Florida Press has fo-cused on these themes as well, in their se-
lection of their topics to publish about,” de Farber said.
The authors of the books still need to 
be contacted before the digitization process will be complete, de Farber said.
Kyle Bridge, a 25-year-old UF American 
history graduate student, said he prefers a real book, but understands that digital books increase access to information.
“I think people are becoming increasing-
ly comfortable with digital books,” Bridge said.
The books will benefit current and future 
students alike, said Jack Davis, a UF profes-sor in the department of history.
“Making these available in digital form 
will be invaluable to the students at UF and other universities,” Davis said. UF receives grant to 
digitize 30 history books
 By Lauren Fernandez
Alligator Contributing Writer
To Heather Montgomery, jewelry can be 
made from just about anything.
“I try to bring them into identity and 
make them wearable so people can appre-
ciate them,” she said, standing among pen-
dants and bracelets created out of recycled 
paper and game board pieces at Saturday’s Gainesville Arts Market.
Tzong Moua, the event’s founder, said 
she first hosted the market at First Magni-tude Brewing Company and later at Art-walk Gainesville. Over the summer, Moua moved her event to the South Main Art Me-dia Hub, or SoMA Art Media Hub, a park-
ing lot located at 601 S. Main St., where 
the market opened for its first event of the year Saturday.
Moua said she envisions a market 
shaped by the needs of its artists.
“It’s not going to be exclusive, just more 
of an open, democratic kind of vibe,” she said. “I talk to the vendors all the time and see where they want to go with it and what 
they want to do.”
The market is currently held every third 
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., but Moua said she hopes to make it a weekly event.
For now, Montgomery said she looks 
forward to creating more upcycled jewelry 
and watching new artists find their place 
at the event.
“I love the energy of the market being 
here at SoMA,” she said. “I think it’s such a 
great up-and-coming area, and I really like that it is giving a voice to people who are just starting out.”
The SoMA district of downtown 
Gainesville has seen a revitalization of art and businesses in recent months. At the 
Arts Market, any vendor or up-and-coming 
artist can secure a spot to sell his or her work for $15. 
“It’s a really good mix of established 
vendors and people who are just starting out,” Montgomery said. “It changes every time.”
SoMA Art Media Hub owner, Celino 
Dimitroff, said he is happy to host the 
event every month at the new location. 
“Tzong bringing the Arts Market be-
hind SoMA is really brilliant, because we 
are trying to bring the whole community together,” he said. “And this is the perfect way to do it.” Gainesville hosts art market
LEFT:
Runners dance to music per-
formed by DJ James Phabulous at the end of the 5K. About 500 people participated in the run at the Alachua County Fair-grounds on Saturday. 
BELOW:
The second wave of runners takes off from the starting line Saturday morning at the Alach-ua County Fairgrounds during the Color In Motion 5K run.
Photos by Lauren Johnson / Alligator Staff
“I think people are becoming 
increasingly comfortable with digital 
books.” 
Kyle Bridge
UF American history graduate student4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
While it might be unpleasant to imagine 
being in the middle of an active shooter 
situation, knowing how to react is impor-tant if the scenario ever presents itself.
The Santa Fe College Police Department 
held a classroom training session on Fri-day that taught attendees how to react in a shooting situation.
About 50 people, mostly staff and fac-
ulty, attended the event. They also learned tips on keeping safe in the workroom and dealing with heated situations.
Despite the low odds of a shooting tak-ing place, SFPD said it wants to teach peo-ple how to react if one were to occur — es-pecially when such shootings are a reality 
in the U.S.
“A lot of times, these folks are just look-
ing for body counts,” SFPD Lieutenant 
Ryan Woods said about attackers.
Nothing is going to stop them, he said.“They already have the mindset: This is 
the endgame,” he said.
Even in the face of an active shooter sit-
uation, Woods said it’s important to know 
your options. First option: Run.
“Get away as fast as humanly possible,” 
he said.
Leave everything behind, including 
your belongings and — as terrible as it may be — the injured, he said. 
If you’re able to get away, get to some-
where safe before calling the police, he said.
Second option: Hide.
“Make it so that you don’t exist,” Woods 
said.
He recommended trying to block the 
door and turn off any sources of noise, such as cellphones. Woods also empha-sized not getting cornered and having a way to maneuver throughout the room. He 
said the gunman needs to think no one is 
in the room.
In the meantime, Woods said to wait for 
law enforcement. They’ll confront the gun-man, and the injured will be helped later.Third option: Fight.“If you cannot run, and you cannot 
hide, then you need to ﬁ  ght… for your 
life,” Woods said.
“Be committed to your actions,” he said.
Scan the room for a possible weapon. It 
can be anything: scissors, keys, an umbrel-la or even a stapler. Woods also stressed the need to report suspicious activity.
If you see something suspicious, report 
it to police.
Santa Fe Police Chief Ed Book said po-
lice will not be angry if suspicious activity turns out to be nothing. It’s best for ev-eryone to be safe at the end of the day, he said.  Santa Fe PD teaches how to react in active shooter scenario
SHE WAS TREATED IN APRIL 2015.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Chuck Ardezzone started documenting his wife’s 
ﬁ  ght with cystic ﬁ  brosis in 2006.
His wife, Heather Champagne, 41, was diagnosed 
with the disease, which causes lung infections and limits the ability to breathe, as a child. She came to 
UF Health Shands Hospital in April 2015 from Naples, 
Florida, for a double-lung transplant. Now Ardezzone is hoping to publish a documentary about his wife this April.
Ardezzone, 48, said he stopped videotaping his wife 
because they both weren’t comfortable with the ﬁ  lm-ing. But when he started ﬁ  lming again in June 2015, he said he realized he had to tell the world her story.
Ardezzone, a professional ﬁ  lmmaker, started ﬁ  lm-
ing on his cellphone but later brought his ﬁ  lm team into the hospital.
“We have all that footage during the worst and 
darkest times,” he said.
When Champagne watched clips from the ordeal, 
she said she didn’t remember some of the moments or emotions captured.
“I saw clips when they wheeled me into surgery,” 
she said.
Champagne, who is now fully recovered, said before 
she went to Shands, she couldn’t leave the house be-cause it took too much effort. The couple was consider-ing selling their home because she couldn’t go upstairs.
“Fast-forward to today, her quality of life has im-proved ten-fold,” Ardezzone said. “It’s like she got a second life.”
The couple believes their documentary of Cham-
pagne’s surgery process will show cystic ﬁ  brosis pa-tients there is hope, Ardezzone said.
“During this last couple days, we’ve been interview-
ing the team that got her back in shape,” Ardezzone said. “We wanted to show people that CF patients do 
have hope, now that someone successfully has gone 
through a lung transplant.”
Many cystic ﬁ  brosis patients don’t realize that a 
double lung transplant is possible, Champagne said.
“Before people watch this documentary, it will show 
them that it does get better, it will get better,” she said. “That’s what I want to stress: positivity.”  Husband chronicles wife’s illnessBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
UF students will use colorful 
condoms to create accessories as 
part of an event to educate stu-
dents about sexual health.  
Eta Sigma Gamma, UF’s co-
ed health education honorary, is 
hosting Sex in the Swamp with 
UF’s Student Health Care Center 
on Feb. 18 in the Florida Gym. Students can sign up in teams of up to three for the contest. They will be given condoms to create 
items such as scarves and purses, 
said Amber Dellich, a member of Eta Sigma Gamma’s planning committee.
Dellich, a UF health education 
and behavior sophomore, said the organization ordered about 5,000 non lubricated, colored condoms for the contest.
The event will also feature 
booths on health education top-ics, such as drug and alcohol abuse, the 20-year-old said. There 
will be a panel comprised of sex-
ual health experts, who will an-swer questions regarding sexual health.
Team members who win the 
design contest will receive Fitbit wristbands, which monitor heart rate and the number of steps taken, Dellich said. Students who 
attend will vote for their favorite 
condom accessory. The ﬁ  rst 200 attendees will receive a free tank top and sunglasses.
The SHCC is providing the 
condoms, tank tops and sunglass-es, wrote Catherine Seemann, the Center’s communications coordi-nator, in an email.
Dellich said the event is going 
to inform students about health safety before Spring Break begins.
“That seems to be a time when 
a lot of students engage in high-
risk health behavior,” she said. 
“Whether it be alcohol, drug use, sunscreen use. Any of those types of things will be relevant for 
Spring Break.”
She said the organization de-
cided to hold the event after 
seeing a similar contest at the 
University of South Carolina. 
Students there used condoms to make entire outﬁ  ts.
“It’s the same purpose,” Del-
lich said. “To promote safe sex 
in a unique way, and have more 
involvement with the students.”
Janke Mains, a UF psychology 
junior, said although many peo-
ple talk about safe sex, it should 
still be discussed with students on campus. He said the Spring Break theme is a good way to re-mind student to use protection.
“I’m sure there’s lots of sex 
that happens on Spring Break,” the 20-year-old said.
He said the condom design 
contest is not something students will easily forget. Although he hasn’t registered, he said it was a creative idea.
“I feel like I could make a cute 
scarf,” Mains said. “But like, knit out of condoms.”  Break out the condoms: 
designing with latex
 Students must register 
their teams on the Student Health Care Center’s website by Jan. 29.
 Condoms will be provided to each team Feb. 1.
 Designs must be completed by 5 p.m. Feb. 16.
 Sex in the Swamp will be held Feb. 18. at the Florida Gym.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Chuck Ardezzone (left) and his wife Heather 
Champagne (right) take a picture at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
ACROSSTOWN AUDITION
Cindy Lasley, a nurse at UF Health Shands Hospital, reads “Comfort Phone” at the 
Acrosstown Repertory Theatre, situated at 619 S. Main St., on Monday. She auditioned for a role in “Comfort Phone” and “Do You See Me?” , locally written one-act plays that will premiere at the theatre March 11.
Nicole Gomez/Alligator StaffHEALTHBy Morgan Miller
Alligator Contributing Writer
Hookah may create 25 times 
more tar than a cigarette, according 
to a recent report published by the University of Pittsburgh Schools of the Health Sciences.
Cigarettes are the most common 
way to smoke tobacco, with hookah not far behind. While more harm-ful than cigarettes, hookah is rising in popularity among both teenagers and adults, according to the report.
Ricardo Morales, owner of the 
Mystic Smoke Shop and Hookah Lounge on University Avenue, said 
researchers are misinformed.
“It can’t be worse than ciga-
rettes,” Morales, 44, said. “You’re 
not burning it; it’s evaporated through water.”Researchers used data from 17 
previous studies, including one by the World Health Organization, that 
said one session of hookah creates 
100 to 200 times more smoke than cigarette.
Despite Morales’ beliefs, people 
such as Ramzi Salloum, an assistant professor at the UF Department of Health Outcomes and Policy, said the negative health effects of hoo-kah are very real.
Salloum, 34, said hookah is 
linked to acute respiratory condi-tions and carbon monoxide poison-ing, along with some associations with cancer.
“We hope young people are 
aware of the effects of smoking hoo-kah and it does not become a cancer epidemic,” Salloum said.
One hookah session is equal to inhaling two or three cigarettes worth of nicotine, according to the report, and it’s also linked to addic-
tion in younger people.
Despite the current findings, 
Salloum said research on hookah 
smoking is scarce compared to that of cigarette smoking. Tar and nicotine aside, other substances are sometimes found in the tobacco, which is unregulated, he said.
Salloum also said the coals used 
to heat hookahs often contain heavy metals and carcinogens.
While Salloum hopes research-
ers will focus more on the effects of hookah in the future, he said it’s already clear that water pipes aren’t the answer to the negative effects of cigarettes.
“It’s not a safe alternative,” Sal-
loum said.TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
Alligator File Photo
T aylor Ratliff, 23, blows out Gator Mist-flavored smoke at Sheesha on Oct. 7, 2015. Ratliff said he used to 
smoke at Sheesha twice a week with friends, but he hadn’t been back because he purchased his own hookah.
LOCAL
By Elizabeth Pantaleon
Alligator Contributing Writer
Rebecca Micha knows music, 
and this weekend she enjoyed a 
fusion of Latino art and jazz.
Micha, owner of the Acad-
emy of Music and Art, took a 
break from teaching vocals and 
piano Friday to enjoy the Thom-as Center’s first show of its Jew-el Box Concert series.
“I thought the show was 
wonderful,” Micha said. “It was very different in terms of the kind of ethnic context of the music and the fact that it was 
not salsa but real jazz fusion.”
The City of Gainesville Parks, 
Recreation and Cultural Affairs 
Department worked with the Shakerag Culture Center, Inc. to plan “Anima Unveiled: The Self” by Emanuel Torres Perez and bring Elio’s Quartet to the residents of Gainesville, said 
Russell Etling, the cultural af-
fairs manager of the department.
Etling said the event is part 
of a 10-year plan to increase arts and culture in Gainesville and Alachua County as a whole.
“We thought it was a great 
celebration of the Latino roots 
that make up the population of 
Gainesville,” he said.
After opening its doors at 
5:30 p.m., the Thomas Center displayed Puerto Rican native Emilio Torres Perez’s multime-dia paintings and prints.
Two hours later, Elio’s Quar-
tet, led by Elio Piedra, who was born in Havana, Cuba, per-formed its own form of Afro-Cuban jazz from its new album, “Pathway.”
“I’ve been in Gainesville for about four years and it’s been an amazing time,” he said. “I love Gainesville.”
Piedra started playing the 
drums when he was 11 years old. He said it was special to play what he calls unique and 
delightful sounds in his new 
home.
“I’m inspired to make mu-
sic that will make people hap-py, give love to the people and transport them to another place,” Piedra said.
After the event, Etling reflect-
ed on plans for the future.
“We will be doing projects 
that are significant in their scope and audience appeal, that will make our citizenship under-stand how important arts and culture are to their daily lives,” Etling said. “We celebrate the arts in many ways, and tonight was a triumph in all of those.” Thomas Center hosts 
Latino art celebrationResearchers report dangers of hookah
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Gainesville man threatens officer 
with knife, authorities say
Authorities arrested a Gainesville man 
late Saturday night after Gainesville Police 
said he threatened an officer with a 6-inch 
steak knife.
At about 11 p.m. Saturday, Russell 
Edward Andrews, 59, answered his front 
door while holding a knife, according to a 
police report.
Police responded to a disturbance at 
Aviara Apartments, located in the 200 
block of S.E. 16 Ave., and knocked on An-drews’ door. The apartment was complete-
ly dark inside, according to the report.
After knocking, police heard footsteps 
and then silverware clinking together in-
side the apartment, according to the re-
port.
When the door opened, Andrews began 
to yell and walk toward the officer, hold-
ing the knife over his own head, according to the report.
“What the f--k do you want?” Andrews 
said, according to the report.
The officer then pulled out his gun and 
ordered the man to drop his knife.
“Are you going to hurt me?” Andrews 
said to the officer, who told him once more 
to put the knife down, ac-cording to the report.
After he dropped the 
knife, police handcuffed Andrews and asked why 
he answered the door 
with a knife. Andrews 
then told police he was scared his neighbor 
would attack him with a pit bull, accord-ing to the report.
Police arrested Andrews on a charge of 
assaulting a police officer and took him to the Alachua County Jail where he remains, 
as of press time, in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloPolice arrest Gainesville man 
after high-speed car chase
Police arrested a Gainesville man after 
authorities said he led them on a 3-mile car 
chase Saturday morning.
At about 3:30 a.m. Saturday, Steven 
Da’Rell Robinson, 30, drove with a missing tire at 70 mph down Northwest 13th Street, according to a police report.
As Robinson sped down the road, reach-
ing 80 mph in a 45 zone, police noticed sparks jumping from the rim of his missing front-left tire, according to the report.
Police began to chase Robinson, who 
then drove through a bicycle lane and a red light on the intersection of Southwest 16th Street and South Main Street, according to the report.
Robinson, also known as Baby D, avoid-
ed hitting a semitruck and a car before even-tually entering Aviara Apartments and run-ning from police, according to the report.Police then used a Taser on Robinson, 
who kept running before an officer tackled him to the ground, according to the report.
Authorities later discovered that, just 
minutes before the chase, Robinson had rear-ended a motorcycle on Williston Road and thrown the ride, Casey Brian Micciche, 
off it.
Micciche was taken to 
UF Health Shands Hospi-tal, where he later spoke with police about the in-
cident, according to the 
report.
Police arrested Rob-
inson on charges of hit-
and-run, reckless driving, resisting arrest, eluding police and driving with a suspended license.
Authorities took him to the Alachua 
County Jail where, as of press time, he re-
mains in lieu of a $135,000 bond.
- Martin Vassolo
Robinson
 Andrews
UPCOMING EVENTS
Thomas Center, 302 NE 6 Ave
· A Stroke Of Brilliance: A collection 
of paintings, poetry and literature. 
Opens March 24 at 5:30 p.m.
· Confluence: A double exhibition 
featuring Jesse Aaron’s drawings 
and Lennie Kesl’s sculptures. Opens 
May 27 at 7 p.m. 
· Eve: An exhibit of drawings, paint-
ings and sculptures featuring wom-
en as the muse. Opens Sept. 30 at 
7 p.m.The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
One last look at Zadroga: the up-hill battle
For those of you who read my column reg-
ularly — hi, Mom and Dad! — you know the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Com-pensation Reauthorization Act is a piece of legislation I kept close track of last se-
mester. Well, on Dec. 18, the Zadroga Act was ﬁ  nally reauthorized via its inclusion in the om-nibus bill, the spending agenda Congress crafts for the following year.
This is a cause for celebration. Thirty-three 
thousand Americans who face debilitating ill-nesses and cancers after responding immediately to the 9/11 attacks or helping to clean up the rubble for months on end will ofﬁ  cially receive permanent health care cover-
age and renewed compensation beneﬁ  ts.
Before we dedicate our toasts and cheers to the Zadroga 
Act’s permanent reauthorization, let us take a moment to 
truly process the grueling struggle to overcome bureaucrat-ic ineffectuality it took to get this legislation reauthorized.  
The ﬁ  ght for the Zadroga Act dates back all the way to 
2009 when, after much lobbying from 9/11 ﬁ  rst respond-ers, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., originally proposed it to the U.S. House. What happened?
Well, in December 2010, a GOP ﬁ  libuster nearly killed 
the legislation. Instead, Republican senators directed their attention toward passing a major tax-cut bill on Dec. 15. In an attempt to justify the GOP ﬁ  libuster against 9/11 ﬁ  rst responders’ health beneﬁ  ts amidst a speedy effort to pass tax cuts for the wealthy, Sen. John Thune, R-S.D., argued, “...there is a deadline… taxes go up on Jan. 1.”
Only after intense public scrutiny from cosponsors of 
the Zadroga Act, citizen activists, ﬁ  rst responders them-
selves and former “Daily Show” host Jon Stewart did Re-
publican senators agree to vote on a revised Zadroga Act with a ﬁ  ve-year expiration date.
Fast-forward ﬁ  ve years to December 2015: What hap-
pened? The Zadroga Act was left to expire on Oct. 1, a reauthorization act to make Zadroga’s health beneﬁ  ts per-manent was stonewalled by a handful of GOP senators and the lobbyists and ﬁ  rst responders once again found them-selves descending upon Capitol Hill to beg for support from their representatives.
Heartbreakingly, by November 2015, the 
Zadroga Reauthorization Act had enough co-sponsors (over 60 in the House and over 240 
in the Senate) to pass a vote, but it was instead 
stalled by proposals from the House Judiciary and Energy committees that sought to strip con-siderable funding from Zadroga’s health pro-grams.  
Even after Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, 
R-W.I.., assured reporters that the Zadroga Act would sure-ly pass by the end of 2015, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell further undercut Zadroga by removing it as an 
attachment from the $305 billion highway bill that sought 
to ensure the approval of U.S. oil exports.  
In 2010, it was tax cuts; in 2015, it was oil exports. As 
Kanye would put it: same hell — just different devils. Only, it’s actually the same devils, because Sens. Mitch McCon-nell and John Thune refused to cosponsor the Zadroga Act both in 2010 and 2015.
Now, in the end, Sen. Mitch McConnell has included 
the Zadroga Act with the 2015 omnibus spending bill, but 
only after — once again — relentless lobbying from ﬁ  rst 
responders, overt criticism from Rep. Carolyn Maloney and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand and the return of comedian Jon Stewart to publicly shame Mitch McConnell on Trevor Noah’s “Daily Show” and Stephen Colbert’s “Late Show.”  
What does it say about us when sick, wounded ﬁ  rst 
responders have to travel to Capitol Hill hundreds of times to get the health care they deserve? When a handful of New York representatives endure a six-year-long battle of 
bureaucracy with their own colleagues to pass a common-
sense piece of legislation? When a comedian has to use national television — twice — to shame our senators into acting in transparency?
Perhaps the state of our union is not as strong as we 
would like to imagine.
David Hoffman is a UF history and physics sophomore. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.A dreamer’s work 
is never done
As the lack of a paper attested to, Monday marked the 30th celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a federal holiday. Although we cannot speak with au-thority for the rest of the country, here in Gainesville, the dream of Dr. King remains apparent and palpable. 
Tonight, UF will be visited by Virginia Tech professor and civil rights activist Nikki Giovanni, whose speech will serve as the cornerstone event to the university’s celebrations of Dr. King’s life.
Elsewhere in the city, acknowledgements of Dr. King’s 
labors began stewing long before Monday’s holiday. As re-ported by the Gainesville Sun, just last week, the 31st annual King Commission Hall of Fame Banquet was held at the Best Western Gateway Grand Hotel. The banquet, hosted by the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Commission of Florida Inc., serves as a 
testament to the power, and indeed the life, that continues to permeate Dr. King’s ideals nearly 50 years after his untimely death.
Living in Florida, speciﬁ  cally Gainesville, means that we 
have been allotted privileges and insight into the lives of those different from us that Americans living in other states may lack. Here in the Alligator ofﬁ  ce, we feel comfortable in as-serting that our K-12 education — at least for those of us who 
grew up in the Sunshine State — provided us with a tremen-
dous amount of knowledge about the civil rights movement and all of the struggles, sacriﬁ  ces and tragedies that character-ized the era. We don’t know if students in Texas, whose high school textbooks refer to imported slaves as workers, could conﬁ  dently stake the same claim.
We as Floridians are also lucky to be part of such a vibrant, 
multicultural state. Although many of a more narrow-minded persuasion would disagree, it is a blessing — a word we do 
not use lightly — that we interact with so many different cul-
tures, beliefs and backgrounds on a daily basis. This gives us knowledge, and above all, empathy, both essential traits to being a decent human being. It isn’t a stretch to say that our day-to-day lives as we understand them would not have been possible were it not for the efforts of Dr. King and his contem-poraries.
Despite our enthusiasm for the progress made, we are not 
blind to the harsher realities permeating modern America: One 
does not have to have read “The New Jim Crow” to under-
stand that racism, classism and contempt for the “lesser” still haunt the American political, economic and educational con-science. As the most recent publicized outbreaks of racial dis-cord attest to, one black president does not and cannot wash away centuries of institutionalized hatred, discrimination and disenfranchisement.
The words, hopes and aspirations of Dr. King stretch far 
beyond the noble and righteous goal of achieving racial equal-
ity in the U.S.: They speak to the dream for every individual, 
regardless of race, creed, color or economic background, to be able to lead digniﬁ  ed and fulﬁ  lled lives. Though we may loathe to admit it, this is profoundly difﬁ  cult, if not outright impossible, for far too many in modern America.
But here’s the good news: As Floridians and Gainesville 
residents, we ﬁ  nd ourselves in the unique and enviable posi-tion of actually being able to do something about it. Educate yourself in one of our myriad libraries, or attend one of the 
countless speaking engagements hosted by UF, Santa Fe or 
the Civic Media Center. Hit the streets, and raise your voice as loud as possible. Don’t just read the dream, BE it; embody-ing Dr. King’s principles should be a daily ambition, not an annual one.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
David Hoffman
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As far as religious doctrines 
go, I don’t remember much from my eight-year 
stint in Catholic school. 
The lessons occasionally 
ﬂ  ash bright in my mind, triggered by some sort of stimulus,  like an 
evangelical billboard on the high-
way or a literary allusion. Yet, one concept has always stuck with me: limbo. Something about that transitional state, not quite hell but not quite 
heaven, struck me as the worst possible fate.
Running the risk of sounding painfully 
dramatic, I believe some parallels can be 
drawn between limbo and your third year of 
college.
This semester marks the ﬁ  rst time in 20 
years that I dreaded going back to school. My typical academic enthusiasm was gone, 
replaced by what can only be described as a pervasive foreboding. I was still recovering from a hellish Fall semester and couldn’t fath-om tackling what was built up to be my most 
challenging four months to date. I wasn’t the 
only one who felt this way: Holiday conversa-tions with roommates and best friends alike centered on packed Spring schedules and our 
fates as future mole people.
But what truly makes junior year feel so 
similar to limbo is the simultaneous sensa-
tion of mobility and inertia. Graduation is far away enough that you can’t make any con-
crete post-graduation plans, but you’re forced 
to buckle down and work toward some vague future forged solely on assumptions. I’ve al-luded to my incessant need to plan in past 
columns, so it goes without saying that this is somewhat of a nightmare for me.
Junior year is a paradox. For-
mer classmates are having chil-dren, and yet I still can’t rent a 
car. I’m told to cherish my waning collegiate years whilst constantly planning for what comes after. 
I’m sent Snapchats of drunken 
debauchery from one friend and corporate cubicles from another. I joke about the youthful naivete of 
freshman friends even though I still have my 
mom schedule my dentist appointments.  
Junior year is built on the incessant para-
noia that you’re one step behind everyone 
else. While you’re scrounging for an intern-
ship interview, others have already been of-
fered the jobs of their dreams. While you’re buried in an LSAT/MCAT/GMAT workbook, someone else has already been accepted to a top-choice graduate school. It’s an un-
avoidable fact of life that will push you to 
work harder but can also drive you insane if thought about too deeply.
So, there has to be a bright side to this, 
right?
I suppose the ambiguity we’re forced 
to live with can have some beneﬁ  ts when viewed from the right perspective. Our arm’s length distance from reality gives us the op-
portunity to hope, for starters. We may not 
have even a vague concept of where we’ll be in three years, but that gives us a lot of room for exciting possibilities. Also, there’s still 
plenty of time left to relish your undergrad 
experience and avoid adulthood at all costs. Be naive. Be dumb. Break some rules (all in appropriate amounts, of course).
It can often seem as though we’re inun-
dated with orders to plan for the future: aca-demic plans, career plans, relationship plans. I almost lost it when a credit union employee asked if I had a 401k plan at the ripe old age 
of 19. Planning is helpful, but so is being pres-
ent in the moment. Sometimes we forget that not having a direction in life is just as damag-ing as realizing that you lost your youth in a whirlwind of anxiety. So, I suppose the over-
arching message here is to take a deep breath 
and realize that you’re going to be ok. While I try to take my own advice, you should, too.
Marisa Papenfuss is a UF English junior. 
Her column appears on Tuesdays.Junior year: the academic limbo Column
Before Yoda — the force-sensitive and elderly cousin of Kermit the 
Frog — effervesced into 
the great beyond in 
1980, he left us with this peer-less wisdom: “Do or do not. 
There is no try.”
In application of this philoso-
phy, I have done many things 
beﬁ  tting of greatness in my life. This in-cludes merging in heavy trafﬁ  c, courting 
pretty women and writing “good.” But 
where I have always excelled is in matters pertaining to recycling. 
For, despite being the absolute bare 
minimum I can do for this beautiful plan-et, it’s the one thing I know I can do to make a difference. It is also the one ac-tion that, just barely, keeps me involved with my community. Most importantly, 
when counting off my immoralities before 
the day’s end, remembering I recycled that bottle of Evan Williams helps me gambol off to the Land of Nod with slightly more 
ease.
I don’t know who invented recycling, 
but I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to tell you it was a damn 
good idea. In this day and age of wasteful, unfettered consumerism, it’s practically a 
necessity.
Still, there are those who are quick to 
label it as a pointless endeavor. However, 
reviews by the Natural Resources Defense 
Council have found that municipal recy-
cling programs reduce pollution, decrease the use of untapped resources and cut down on the need to expand landﬁ  ll space. These are all objectively good things for 
planet Earth. 
Reports from the Environmental De-
fense Fund, another environmental organi-
zation of great inﬂ  uence, assert that recy-
cling is not a superﬂ  uous use of taxpayer's 
money, nor is it as ineffective as the lovers of the landﬁ  ll would purport.
One prominent culture Gainesville 
prides itself on is environmental con-
sciousness. This can be seen in our ongo-
ing protection of Paynes Prairie and other city parks, as well as our thriving vegetar-ian subculture. Yet, for all the concerted 
efforts of these green-minded individuals, the municipality and its waste 
management system foil them by indifferently failing to provide 
adequate resources for recycling.
There are many Florida towns 
that do not have populations 
deemed signiﬁ  cant enough to 
warrant recycling plants or, al-
ternatively, lack the infrastruc-ture. 
However, our town has both. Why 
aren’t they being used to their fullest? 
What’s our excuse for not having a dump-
ster for reusables in every restaurant pla-za or alley? As someone who works as a server, the amount of plastic and glass I 
see thrown away is astounding. And if the 
pain of seeing glass go from table to trash can wasn’t enough, I am often the one made to do it, reducing me to a goddamn sellout in the process.
We should be grateful that we live in a 
city that does recycle, but this should not render us complacent. Many cities, includ-ing our own, have decidedly plateaued on 
their recycling efforts, allowing inefﬁ  cien-
cies in the system to hold fast and stagnate the effort. 
According to professor Samantha Mac-
Bride of Columbia University, about one-
third of recyclables on a national scale 
actually get processed. Much of the waste that ﬁ  nds itself in the recycling bin is treated as trash at the plant, subsequently 
leading many items that could have been 
recycled to end up in the landﬁ  ll instead. Being that there are a huge range of plas-tics and hundreds of different resins, there need to be “markets and processes to route 
them back into production,” according to 
MacBride. In “Recycling Reconsidered,” MacBride goes on to emphasize the impor-tance of manufacturer recycling. With that 
said, why should we as consumers leave it 
up to them?
It’s time we, as environmentally con-
scious people, push for and work toward generating an infrastructure for a more ef-
ﬁ  cient and helpful recycling system. 
We need to demand a difference in or-
der to make a difference.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.Gainesville can do more recyclingColumn
Marisa 
Papenfuss
opinions@alligator.org
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.org
“But what truly 
makes junior year 
feel so similar 
to limbo is the 
simultaneous 
sensation of mobility 
and inertia.”By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
Jamal Ransom said he’ll never 
forget leading a march for the 30th 
anniversary of Martin Luther King 
Day.
Jamal, 14, next to his 18-year-
old cousin, Anthony Ransom, led a crowd of about 400 community 
members Monday for an MLK march.
The day started with elected of-
ficials, community members and 
members of the Martin Luther 
King, Jr. Commission of Florida, Inc., speaking on the steps of City Hall about King’s virtues and the need to continue his mission of so-
cial justice.
Commission president Rodney J. Long said Gainesville has made 
progress over the last 30 years in promoting social equality.
However, African-Americans 
still face problems like racism, the criminal justice system, health dis-parities and lack of economic op-portunities, he said.
“I’m sad to tell you that the 
more things change, the more they remain the same,” Long said.
Later, the Commission awarded 
a $10,000 scholarship to Nadia 
Thomas, an 18-year-old senior at 
Gainesville High School.
Thomas said she was glad to 
see a diverse group of people and believed that Dr. King’s dream had 
come to pass.
“But there’s still work that 
needs to be done,” she said about 
police brutality and racial discrimi-nation. “A lot of us have been talk-ing about it, but it’s time to be about it.”
At about 1 p.m., the crowd 
gathered for the MLK march.
Some sang songs as they 
marched. Others, like Anthony and 
Jamal, were silent.
Through his aviators, Anthony 
looked at the road ahead of him, 
honored to lead the march.
“We always lead from behind 
every single day,” he said, “but to-day we are leading from the front.”TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
HUNDREDS MARCH FOR MLK DAY
Honoring Martin Luther King Jr.
 A young girl skates down the streets in roller skates during the Martin 
Luther King Jr.  Day march on University Avenue on Monday afternoon.“I’m sad to tell you that the 
more things change, the more 
they remain the same.”
Rodney J. Long
Commission president Hundreds of people showed their support for Martin Luther King Jr. and the equality for which he stood by walking east down University Avenue on Monday afternoon. Some held signs for other causes , such as stricter gun laws or mayoral candidates in Gainesville, while others walked with friends from church and sang impromptu, uplifting songs along the way.
Participants carry signs in memory of Martin Luther King Jr. as they march down University Avenue on Monday afternoon.LEFT:
Boys from the Manhood Youth Program march in the Martin 
Luther King Jr. Day parade on University Avenue on Monday.
BELOW:
Kiana Davis, a 19-year-old Santa Fe athletic training student, holds 
up 1-year-old Jayce Johnson at his first Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration. The pair marched with members of Faith Church along University Avenue toward the Martin Luther King Jr. Multi-Purpose Center.
Photos by Emma Green / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-20-15-23-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease 1/1 in 2/2 Townhouse in Museum Walk Apartments Females only. Lease is through July 30th w/ January rent already paid for! Amenities include washer/dryer, Internet, and utiles included in rent. Furnishings provid-ed, includes bed (with bed frame), desk, desk chair, dresser, and night stand. Walk-in closet. Parking included in rent. carinah10@ufl.edu    1-22-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-1293 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago 
Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONALOFFICE. MUST TYPE 60 WPM
Send resume to dawnbkrop@gmail.com1-20-16-5-14
LOCAL TV STATION
hiring in HR, News and Technical Operations. See the About Us page at www.mygtn.tv    1-21-16-4-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, 
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
1-25-16-5-14
Homework Coach for gifted 7th grader with dysgraphia. $10/hr. 4-8 hrs/wk. Flexible. Needs help with organization, study skills, time management, and homework. Send qualifications to KarenGill@aol.com    1-25-5-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgHIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Dorian Finney-Smith is leading 
the Florida men's basketball team by example. Read the story on pg. 14Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Two Florida football players returning
Linebacker Jarrad Davis (@J_Davis_40) and safety Marcus Maye (@allday-
MAYE) announced via their Twitter accounts that they're returning to Flor-ida for the 2016 season. THE GATORS ARE ON 
PACE TO MAKE THE 
TOURNAMENT DESPITE 
ALREADY HAVING SIX 
LOSSES.
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff writer
@icohenb
After ﬁ  nalizing Florida’s win in 
Oxford, Mississippi, a place where 
Mike White ranks as Ole Miss’ No. 8 all-time leader in assists, UF’s coach climbed into the team bus.
The ﬁ  rst thing he did was check 
UF’s stats.
Not its points, rebounds or ﬁ  eld 
goal percentage, but UF's RPI  — the measurement that the NCAA uses to determine which teams are qualiﬁ  ed to enter its tournament in March.
“I’m obsessed with all those 
numbers,” White said. “I’m not go-
ing to lie.”
White may be even more ob-
sessed with making it to the NCAA 
Tournament.
His last trip to the tournament 
was in 1999 as Ole Miss’ starting point guard, where he helped lead the Rebels to their ﬁ  rst-ever tourna-ment win.
As head coach at Louisiana Tech 
from 2011-2015, White failed to reach the NCAA Tournament despite compiling a .716 winning percent-age, making it to the NIT three out of his four years as coach.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida huddles on the court prior to its 77-63 win over Georgia on Jan. 2 in the O'Connell Center.White, Florida not shying away from NCAA Tourney hopes
Would you be 
stunned if Roger Goodell unexpect-
edly resigned from 
his post atop the 
National Football League?
Of course you would. And 
you wouldn’t be alone.
Weeks upon weeks upon 
weeks of coverage from ESPN, Sports Illustrated and other news outlets  would follow.
Therefore, it was surprising when 
nobody talked about Laurel Richie, the president of one of America’s profession-al sports leagues, when she resigned just 
over two months ago. 
Wait, no. 
Surprising isn’t the right word. In this 
case, "surprising" probably ought to be replaced with "expected." Richie was the president of 
the WNBA for over four years and stepped down unexpect-
edly in November. If you look 
it up, you’ll find that it was covered by all the major news outlets, but certainly not 
prominently. 
That seems to be the tone 
in the world of American 
sports coverage when it comes to the 
WNBA, or really any women’s profes-
sional sport. “We’ll cover it because we 
have to.”
The WNBA has, unfortunately, be-
come a running joke to a lot of people. 
It’s a pop culture symbol that sport fans 
equate to something that nobody cares about. 
Generally, American sports fans don’t Men's tennis opens season 
with dominant victories
By Dylan Dixon
Alligator Writer
@dylanrdixon
Florida men’s tennis coach Bryan Shel-
ton and his team can ﬁ  nally move on from 
the disappointing loss they suffered to Pep-perdine in the ﬁ  rst round of last season’s NCAA tournament.
The No. 24 Gators began the 2016 regu-
lar season on Sunday with dominant wins over No. 63 Troy and unranked Stetson, increasing the program’s win streak in sea-son-opening matches to 28 straight.
In front of their home crowd, the Gators 
swept the doubleheader with ease, beating the Trojans 6-1 and the Hatters 7-0 at the Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville.
Freshman McClain Kessler went 3-0 on 
the day, winning two singles matches and one doubles match. The freshman praised his head coach following the matches, cred-iting Shelton with making his transition to 
the college game as easy as possible.
“I don’t think there’s a better person 
than coach Shelton as a coach,” Kessler said. 
“I wish I could be half as good as he 
was, and I strive to be like him.”
Senior Diego Hidalgo, sophomore Jor-
dan Belga and freshman Alfredo Perez also 
went undefeated on the day, with each player winning one singles and one dou-bles match.
“We’re trying to go match by match,” 
Hidalgo said. “We’re going to go into each week and try to beat up on every team that SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE MEN'S TENNIS,  PAGE 15 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15SWEET AND BAUER
Give women's sports a chance
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri“W e’re trying to go match by match.” 
Diego Hidalgo
UF seniorBy Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
Dorian Finney-Smith is a self-pro-
claimed “laid-back dude.”
He’s not a talkative guy. He’d rather 
lead by example.
So when Florida head coach Mike 
White approached Finney-Smith in the 
preseason and challenged the redshirt 
senior to be more vocal, it took Finney-
Smith out of his comfort zone.
“It’s kind of uncomfortable to get out 
of myself,” Finney-Smith said on Sept. 29 at the Gators’ media day.
But White has quickly learned how to 
get the best out of Finney-Smith: Let him be himself. 
In his time at Florida, the Portsmouth, 
Virginia, native has traveled to two Sweet Sixteens, two Elite Eights and one Final Four. 
Finney-Smith was also named South-
eastern Conference Sixth Man of the Year 
in 2013-14 — his first full season as a 
Gator.
Finney-Smith has the experience. He 
is a team leader, and White’s going to let 
him lead his way.
“We kind of got away from that about three weeks ago because I wanted Dorian 
just focused on Dorian,” White said.“And 
it’s funny. As we’ve talked to Dorian less 
about leading, he has started to play bet-ter. And now he’s playing really well, and you see him on the court in Oxford 
(on Saturday), chirping a lot to our other 
guys, leading.”
Finney-Smith had 17 points and 10 re-
bounds in Saturday’s win over Ole Miss. Three of his four double-doubles this 
season have come in Florida’s last four 
games. 
He leads the Gators in scoring with 
13.6 points per game and in rebounding, 
grabbing 7.7 boards per game. He is also 
the only player on the roster to start in all 17 games thus far.
Finney-Smith said it was a relief when 
White told him he didn’t need to be as vo-
cal anymore, and that it’s easier now for 
him to just be himself. The relief is evi-dent by the way he has played as of late.
“Kind of like took a weight off my 
back,” Finney-Smith said. “I kind of was getting a little deflated when guys missed their assignment. It affects me, too. So he was just trying to tell me to focus on my-self.”
Finney-Smith is the leader this young 
UF team needs, even if he isn’t the most vocal player on the floor. He knows what 
it takes for a team to be great — he’s been 
there before. As a leader by example, his game speaks for itself.
“For us to be more consistent, you’ve got to be our most consistent guy. Every-thing you do or say, our guys follow you,” White said his staff told Finney-Smith. “He’s playing hard, and we need him to continue to play hard.”
By Jake Dreilinger
Alligator Writer
@DreilingerJake
The No. 3 Florida women’s 
tennis team traveled to Las Vegas over the weekend to participate 
in the 14th annual Freeman Me-
morial Women’s Tennis Cham-pionships at the Fertitta Tennis Complex.
Meeting them were six oppo-
nents, five of which were ranked in No. 2 Southern California, No. 4 North Carolina, No. 8 Stanford, No. 9 UCLA and No. 16 Duke.
The Gators found early singles 
success. 
No. 56 sophomore Josie Kuhl-
man defeated Duke’s Christina 
Makarova 6-2, 6-0, and No. 110 
sophomore Anna Danilina took down Duke’s Jessica Ho 7-6, 6-3. No. 51 senior Brianna Morgan de-feated No. 112 Chloe Oullet-Pizer 
from UNC 6-3, 6-1, while No. 73 
junior Spencer Liang bested Stan-ford’s Caroline Lampl 4-6, 6-1, 7-6, and No. 25 junior Kourtney 
Keegan defeated UCLA’s Alaina 
Miller 6-4, 6-1. 
Three Gators moved on from 
the round of 16.
Morgan defeated UNLV’s Car-
ol Yang 6-2, 6-2. Liang won by default against No. 28 Beatrice Capra from Duke, and Danilina bested No. 68 Jessica Aney from 
UNC 7-5, 6-3.Danilina was the only Gator to 
make it to the semifinals, defeat-ing Stanford’s Melissa Lord 6-0, 
6-3. Morgan fell to No. 29 Kait-lyn McCarthy from Duke 6-2, 6-4, and Liang was defeated by No. 
42 Giuliana Olmos from USC 6-2, 
6-2. 
Danilina fell just short in the semifinals, losing a close match to Olmos 6-7, 7-6, 7-6. 
In doubles action, Liang and 
Porter defeated Stanford’s Eliza-beth Yao and Paulette Wolak 6-1, while Danilina and Morgan de-
feated Duke’s Capra and Saman-
tha Harris 6-0 to advance to the quarterfinals. Both teams fell in the next 
round, with Liang and Porter 
dropping to UNLV’s Aiwen Zhu 
and Carol Zi Yang 6-1 and Dani-lina and Morgan falling to Stan-ford’s Lord and Kimberly Yee 6-1.
The tournament style of play is 
nothing new to the Gators, as the Fall season was all tournaments. In the Spring season, Florida will switch to team play. 
Last year’s team, which con-
sisted of every current UF player minus Danilina, boasted a 24-4 record along with an NCAA team 
quarterfinal appearance and indi-
vidual NCAA singles and doubles championship semifinal appear-ances. 
The Gators are also the early 
favorites to win the 2016 South-eastern Conference title, accord-ing to the preseason SEC Coaches Poll. In order to accomplish that 
feat, the Gators may have to go 
through Vanderbilt, the reigning NCAA champion.
The Commodores bested the 
Gators in all three matchups last 
season. 
This year, however, the Gators 
have three players ranked in the 
top 25 in singles rankings. Junior 
Belinda Woolcock comes in at 
No. 3, sophomore Brooke Austin at No. 11 and Keegan at No. 25.
The doubles team of Austin 
and Keegan are ranked at No. 5, 
and the team of Kuhlman/Wool-
cock place No. 15. 
But the Gators have a difficult 
schedule ahead, as they’ll play 
17 teams that have a preseason 
ranking. 
The dual-match season kicks 
off Jan. 27 at 4 p.m. against South Florida at the Alfred A. Ring Ten-
nis Complex. 14   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Dorian Finney-Smith prepares to inbound the ball during Florida’s 68-62 win 
over LSU on Saturday, Jan. 9 in the O’Connell Center. 
UF men’s basketball veteran Finney-Smith leading by example
Alligator File Photo
The Florida women’s tennis team huddles prior to its win against Maryland on Jan. 24, 2015, at the Ring T ennis Complex. 
Gators find success, miss finals in Spring season openerWOMEN’S TENNISHe’s not known for being vocalwe face.”
Junior Elliott Orkin was given 
a full workload, as he was the 
only player on the team to par-ticipate in four matches. 
Orkin went 3-1 with two sin-
gles victories and one win and one loss in two doubles matches.
Sunday marked the beginning 
of Shelton’s fourth year as the leader of the Gators. 
The coach went 46-30 in his 
first three seasons, leading the Gators to the NCAA Tournament 
all three years.
Shelton emphasized realistic 
expectations when talking about 
the team’s goals for postseason success.
“I think if we focus in on things that we can control, and we really develop those things really well, then I think our op-portunity to have success at the end of the season increases,” Shelton said.
The players, however, have 
not shied away from telling their 
head coach where they want to 
be come late April.
“This team has vocalized that 
they want to win the SEC cham-pionship this year,” Shelton said.
Florida’s next match will be 
on Jan. 23 in Austin against the University of Texas at 10 a.m. for the ITA Kick-Off Weekend. 
If Florida defeats Texas, they 
would take on either Ole Miss or Texas Tech on Jan. 24 at 1 p.m. for an opportunity to qualify for the 2016 ITA National Men’s Team Indoor Championship.seem to care about women’s sports, 
WNBA or otherwise. However, generally 
doesn’t mean always, and there seems 
to be two asterisks among this apathy to women’s sports.
First is women’s tennis, where a star 
like Serena Williams is equally as well-
known as a star like Roger Federer or No-
vak Djokovic. 
This might be attributed to women’s 
tennis looking very similar to men’s ten-nis, but it is certainly more of an excep-tion to the rule than a rule itself. 
Then there’s any women’s team repre-
senting the United States, say at the Olym-pics or the FIFA World Cup. 
During this past FIFA Women’s World 
Cup, the final match between Japan and the U.S. drew “a stunning 25.4 million 
viewers,” according to Sports Illustrated’s 
Richard Deitsch. 
That figure blew away the record for a 
most-watched soccer game in U.S. history 
by 6.7 million viewers — a record that had 
belonged to the U.S. Men’s National Team versus Portugal in the 2014 World Cup. 
And very few people would be opposed 
to watching, say, the women’s 100-meter 
dash finals or the U.S. women’s swimming team going for relay gold at the Olympics.
Yet when it comes to taking women’s 
sports leagues — like the WNBA or the National Women’s Soccer League — seri-
ously, very few people do.
The ratings for the Women’s World Cup validated the entertainment value of women’s sports, because people were in-terested enough to watch the U.S. wom-
en’s national team. 
Granted, I would guess that had the 
U.S. men’s national team made the World 
Cup Finals in 2014, then that game would 
have the record. 
There are still some people who just 
won’t let women’s and men’s sports stand 
on equal footing.
But women’s sports are entertaining 
and have the potential to bring in viewers.
When I started as the UF women’s bas-
ketball beat writer, I had never watched women’s sports besides those of the pa-
triotic variety. 
I wasn’t opposed to watching a wom-
en’s basketball game, but because there’s 
such a stigma attached, I had never both-ered. 
After covering the team for several 
months, however, I can say without reser-vation that I’m as entertained as I would be at any other sporting event. 
There may never be dunks or alley-
oops like in men’s basketball, but a buzz-er-beating shot is the same across genders. 
If women competing in the Olympics 
or World Cup are entertaining enough to 
watch, then why not give the WNBA a 
chance?TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
The Gators rank 17th in the nation in RPI  AP Photo
The United State's Women's National T eam celebrates with the trophy after they 
beat Japan 5-2 in the FIFA Women's World Cup soccer championship.
HOOPS,  from pg 13
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Diego Hidalgo returns a serve during Florida's 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17, 2016, at the Ring T ennis Complex.
Shelton has led UF to three-
straight NCAA Tourneys
MEN'S TENNIS,  from pg 13COLUMN,  from pg 13
And now, after Florida missed its 
first postseason tournament in five 
years last season, White and UF’s program share a similar passion: making it back to the Big Dance.
White has been glued to the sta-
tistics that will get him there.
“During the offseason, you may 
check out what the weather’s going to be like in Gainesville next week. But with us, we just look at num-bers,” White said. “There’s so much information out there.”
With its schedule and play lately, 
Florida is in surprisingly good stand-ing heading into the second half of the season, starting tonight against Mississippi State in the O’Connell Center at 7 p.m.
The Gators rank 17th in the na-
tion in RPI, which combines win/loss record and strength of sched-ule, both important factors in the NCAA’s decision process.
And despite Florida’s No. 
5-ranked strength of schedule, its 
top-20 RPI ranking is fairly unex-
pected. 
UF is the only team in the top 25 
and only one of six teams in the top 50 with at least six losses.
“We’ve had opportunities,” 
White said of UF’s current standing in the RPI. “Some we’ve taken ad-vantage of, some we haven’t,”
They’ve included road losses 
against then-No. 21 Purdue, against then-No. 1 Michigan State — where the Gators were defeated by just six points — and against then-No. 17 Miami. 
Despite the negative outcomes, 
all those games served as positive influences in Florida’s tournament-eligibility standing.
But even though Florida’s coach-
es are highly attentive to its standing 
in the NCAA Tournament-eligibility 
race, they don’t discuss it with the players.
“I don’t know how we’d handle 
that,” White said. 
“This team needs to be concen-
trated on Mississippi State and our attack versus their zone, how we’re going to slow these guys down, our 
transition defense, our live-ball turn-
overs, all those things. Maybe in an-other three weeks, maybe we start talking about that.”
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Chris Chiozza shoots the ball during UF's 68-62 victory against LSU on Jan. 9 in the O'Connell 
Center.
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
FLOORING THE COMPETITION 
Florida’s Kennedy Baker performs her ﬂ  oor routine during UF’s win over UCLA on Jan. 15 in the 
O’Connell Center. The Gators next face Auburn on Friday at 8:30 p.m.
This Week in UF Sports
MEN’S BASKETBALL VS. MISSISSIPPI STATE
T onight, 7 p.m.
MEN’S BASKETBALL VS. AUBURN
Jan. 23, 8 p.m.WOMEN’S BASKETBALL VS. ALABAMA
Jan. 21, 7 p.m.
MEN’S TENNIS @ ITA KICKOFF WEEKEND
Jan. 23, 11 a.m.GYMNASTICS @ AUBURN
Jan. 22, 8:30 p.m.
SWIMMING & DIVING VS. AUBURN
Jan. 23, 11 a.m.