We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 13 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
Florida men’s golf opens play 
Friday
See what other UF sports are competing over 
the weekend, pg. 16
JSU Welcome Week oﬀ  ers new martial 
arts class
The Israeli class will showcase  defense moves, pg. 3
NASA seeks student designs
The competition involves 3-D printing plans, pg. 3GNV woman collecting backpacks
She’s hoping to give them to the homeless, pg. 5
  pg. 5
By Alexandra Northcott
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural 
Sciences is ﬁ  ghting for a new building for 
plant science students and faculty.
The new building would cost an estimat-ed $15.8 million and would be added to the 
west side of campus near Fiﬁ  eld Hall, said 
Jeanna Mastrodicasa, IFAS’ associate vice 
president for operations. The current build-ings, Fiﬁ  eld Hall and the microbiology build-ing, lack the space needed to accept more 
students.“We believe we are losing about 3,200 
credit hours of students that would like to 
take classes that we don’t have the facilities 
for,” she said. 
The facilities have also caused UF to lose 
faculty to other research universities, Mas-
trodicasa said. The proposed project would 
create a 25,125-square-foot building and 
renovate an additional 8,600 square feet in 
the Microbiology and Cell Science building.  “The conditions of some of our facilities 
are pretty poor,” she said. “We don’t have 
enough money to do a lot of maintenance, 
and what we ﬁ  nd is a lot of our faculty who 
choose to leave us are lured away by nicer facilities than we have.” 
The new building would add classroom 
and teaching-lab space, she said. It would  UF’s IFAS seeks new building to expand program
THE CHAPTER IS THE 
FIRST IN FLORIDA.
By Amy Guzman
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A national organization has 
teamed up with UF students in hopes of increasing Hispanic and Latino voter turnout for the up-coming elections. 
Voto Latino, an organization 
that looks to encourage Ameri-can Latino millennials to vote, launched a chapter at UF on Mon-day in collaboration with UF His-panic-Latino Affairs. The chapter plans on hosting events to help students register to vote, said Jose Abastida, the ﬁ  eld director of Florida’s Voto Latino chapters. 
“Voto Latino doesn’t endorse 
or condemn any party or candidate,” the 24-year-old UF political science senior said. ”We simply support creating more spaces for civic engagement and civic learning through leadership development.”
Florida’s large Hispanic and 
Latino population makes it a key state in the U.S. elections, he said. 
The chapter, along with the 
Hispanic Student Association and Hispanic-Latino Affairs, will help students register to vote at an on-campus event Sept. 15, said Jer-emy Martinez-Quinoes, the vice president of the UF chapter of Voto Latino. The event is open to everyone. 
“Overall, we are really trying 
to advocate for all students to reg-ister to vote,” the 20-year-old UF criminology and law senior said.
David Enriquez, the director 
of leadership development for the HSA, said he thinks Voto Latino will help establish the presence of Hispanic and Latino voters.
“I think Voto Latino is going to 
be one of those things that helps us realize that we need to claim our Americanness,” the 19-year-old UF philosophy and history sophomore said.  Voto Latino launches UF 
chapter to reach voters
SHE WILL ANSWER QUESTIONS 
FROM UF STUDENTS IN THE 
LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY.
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF alumna is coming back to campus to 
talk about the story behind the legalization 
of same-sex marriage. 
Debbie Cenziper, who coauthored “Love Wins: The Lovers and Lawyers Who Fought 
the Landmark Case for Marriage Equality,” with Jim Obergefell, is speaking at Pugh Hall 
at 6 p.m. today as part of the Great Storytell-
ers Series, hosted by UF’s College of Journal-ism and Communications.
“I think she does a really good job about 
telling a pretty moving story of the players that were behind this landmark case,” said 
Shelby Taylor, the digital and communica-
tions director of the Bob Graham Center for Public Service.Ted Spiker, UF’s jour-
nalism chair, said students can learn about Cenziper’s 
reporting and writing as 
she covered the U.S. Su-preme Court’s decision.  
“I think what’s great 
about it for our students is that they can see how 
really important and compelling stories can shed light on issues and can have emotional connections with an audience,” he said. Roxie Patton, the director of UF LGBT 
Affairs, said Cenziper agreed to meet with students in the LGBTQ+ community and 
answer their questions. 
The program can help shed light on the 
LGBTQ+ community, Patton said. 
“We’re also really excited to have the rep-
resentation, because oftentimes we don’t see 
large events featuring LGBTQ stories, partic-
ularly not love stories,” she said, “and so to 
have that representation is huge.” A uthor to speak after writing book on landmark gay-marriage caseKelsey Bona / Alligator Staff
CHERRY ON TOP
From left: UF biomedical engineering student Rachel DeNapoli, 20, and UF nutritional sciences student 
Brittany Bowman, 18, indulge in the toppings at Yogurtology on Wednesday as part of a Delta Nu Zeta Sorority fundraiser. The money earned will be donated to Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals and the American Cancer Society.
Cenziper
SEE IFAS,  PAGE 4It would cost $15.8 millionSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  91° LOW  66°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights: Illusions    
Whether you like magic or 
testing your luck, GatorNights 
might help you hit the jackpot Friday. GatorNights will have an illusionist as a featured perform-
er, bumper cars on the North 
Lawn, airbrush tattoos and free 
food. Bring some friends and show off your ingenuity in the 
GatorNights Escape Room. Test 
your hand at blackjack or rou-lette, and catch showings of “Now You See Me 2” at 8 p.m. or 10:45 p.m. You won’t want to miss the Multicultural Greek Council Showcase in the Grand Ballroom. Prepare for a bar-becue at Midnight Munchies. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards at the Reitz Union. Attendees must be current students to participate and are allowed to bring a maxi-mum of one guest to the event. 
Belly Dancing for All Ages
The Cairo Grille, located at 2410 NW 43rd St., invites you to learn the ancient art of belly dancing in a free master class by the Al Amoura Dancers. It will be Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Call 352-727-7071 for more information.
Still I Rise: A Celebration of 
Tupac’s LegacyTuesday marks the 20th anni-versary of Tupac Shakur’s death. 
Entire generations of people 
who come from varying racial, 
cultural, socioeconomic and po-
litical backgrounds continue to be inspired by Shakur’s work. 
To commemorate his impact 
and contributions, UF's African 
American Studies and Reitz Union Board Entertainment are sponsoring a two-day sympo-
sium in his honor. The sympo-
sium will end tonight with two 
showings of the movie “Juice,” in which Shakur was featured, at the Reitz Union Auditorium 
at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
‘What Colors Do You Bleed?’ 
Blood Drive
The annual “What Colors Do You Bleed?” Blood Drive host-ed by LifeSouth Community Blood Centers will be held from Monday until Sept. 16. This blood drive is a competition between UF and the University of Tennessee to see which school can donate the most blood. Donors will receive an T-shirt and will help save a life. Bloodmobiles will be located 
at the Newberry Road Donor 
Center, the Civitan Donor 
Center, the Hub, Turlington 
Plaza, Little Hall, Sorority Row and Gator Corner Dining Center. 
For more information, email lg-
bialeck@lifesouth.org or call 
352-359-0988.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, David Hoffman, Amanda     
  Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Michael Smith  
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandVOLUME 111 ISSUE 13
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
THE WINNING TEAM 
WILL GET $100,000.
By Vincent McDonald
Alligator Contributing Writer
For video-game-playing college students, 
long hours spent gripping controllers could 
turn into a big payday.
Beginning today, students across the U.S. 
can enter to win $100,000 at Collegiate Col-osseum North America, an e-sports tourna-ment to be held in Las Vegas in December.
Players will form teams of six and play 
games like “Super Smash Bros.,” “League of Legends” and “Overwatch.” The cash prize will be split among winning team members.
Noelle Kuphal, the marketing director 
for the event, said one of the driving forces behind the tournament is to challenge pre-conceived notions about video games as a time-consuming hobby.
“We want to show that it’s not just play-
ing video games — you can create a career out of it,” she said.
After registration closes Sept. 22, online 
qualiﬁ  ers will be held Sept. 24. Finalists will face off on Dec. 16 and Dec. 17, she said.
Stanley Ta, a 19-year-old UF computer 
science sophomore, said he would like to compete in “Super Smash Bros. Melee.”
Ta joined the Gator Gaming video-game 
club about a year ago but said he has been playing since he was about 6 years old.
He said the most he has ever won at a 
gaming tournament was $80, so breaking six ﬁ  gures would be a welcome upgrade.
“You don’t really do it for the money, but 
it’s just nice to have, like, some reward for doing something you enjoy,” he said. Game  tournament pays for play
THEY WILL BE 3-D PRINTED 
ON THE INTERNATIONAL 
SPACE STATION.
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
Tommy Power uses his 3-D printer to solve 
day-to-day annoyances like his cats knocking 
his toothbrush off of his countertop.
In about 20 minutes, the UF aerospace en-
gineering senior designed a toothbrush holder 
his pets can’t push over.
“My favorite thing about 3-D printing is the 
fast workﬂ  ow from idea to design to product,” 
Power said.
Students like Power are the subject of NA-
SA’s 2016 International Space Station Design Challenge, which is open until Oct. 7. NASA, which partnered with Mouser Electronics for the competition, is looking for designs of household items that can be 3-D printed in space to help astronauts living in a weightless environment, according to a press release. 
The winner receives a 3-D printer and a 
technology consultation, and the winning de-sign will be printed aboard the International 
Space Station.
In a promotional video, judge and retired 
Canadian astronaut Chris Hadﬁ  eld said use-
ful items — like Power’s toothbrush holder — would be well-received in space. 
“There’s just a whole rainbow of things 
that we might ﬁ  nd useful on board the space-ship,” Hadﬁ  eld said. 
Designs can be submitted at mouser.com. 
Although Power said he wouldn’t partici-
pate in the competition, he said expanding the 
use of 3-D printing to space stations would be impressive.
“I do believe it is a useful step for support-
ing life in space, as it is an extremely versatile tool,” he said.  NASA seeks student designsBy Isabelle Resnick
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s Jewish Student Union is 
continuing its Welcome Week with a new Israeli martial-arts class.
JSU’s annual Welcome Week 
started Tuesday and will continue 
through Friday, said 20-year-old UF 
accounting junior Brandon Harris, the organization’s president. To cel-ebrate the start of the semester, the group planned four events, including handing out ice pops on Turlington Plaza, an involvement fair, a Krav Maga class and a Shabbat dinner. 
“It’s just something that we do 
every year at the beginning of school to showcase what we have to offer and show freshman what kind of Jewish involvement opportunities there are,” he said.
The Krav Maga class will be held 
today at Graham Hall from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Students will learn self-defense moves from Master Valiño, who owns a martial arts school in Gainesville, Harris said. 
“I’ve never participated in the 
class,” he said. “I’m not sure what it’s like, but people who took it in the past told me it’s a lot of fun.”
Michelle Tomlinson, a UF biology 
freshman, went to the Involvement Fair on Wednesday night to learn about UF’s Jewish community.
“Judaism was a big part of my 
high school career, so I just want to see where it takes me in college,” the 18-year-old said.JSU Welcome Week oﬀ  ers 
new martial arts class
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
A MUSICAL MEETING
William Bauer kicks off the Music 
Education Rally for UF’s chapter of the Collegiate National Association for Music Education on Wednesday evening at the Reitz Union, Room 2365. After introducing himself as the area head of UF’s music education program, Bauer told 
students about the association and 
announced its upcoming events.4   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
move teaching labs out of the 
microbiology building and con-vert those labs to research labs.
“I think, honestly, it would 
really benefit our students the best because they would have better facilities for classes and teaching labs,”  Mastrodicasa said. “That, to me, is the biggest thing. We have a really tough time with quality classrooms and all that.”
Funding for the project would 
come through the Public Educa-tion Capital Outlay process, in which the state provides money for some educational projects. But the new IFAS academic building is currently sixth on the list of projects to be taken on, 
Mastrodicasa said. 
“We were higher on the list 
last year, but we got moved 
down,” she said. “We had 
hoped it would be maybe next 
year we would start.” 
The earliest the building 
could be started is 2018, she 
said, but nothing will begin 
without UF receiving the neces-
sary $15.8 million.
Brooke McMillion, a UF plant 
science senior, said she thinks a 
new facility with new technolo-
gy and room for research would 
be beneficial to her and future 
plant-science students. 
“I do understand if they want 
to do new buildings and have 
that for more research back 
there,” the 22-year-old said.IFAS,  from pg. 1It’s sixth on a list of projects
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
UF added another piece of history 
to its legacy Tuesday. 
University administrators and the 
community celebrated as the Florida 
Museum of Natural History added a historic marker to recognize its cen-tennial anniversary as the state’s of-ficial natural history museum.  
UF President Kent Fuchs and 
the museum’s director, Doug Jones, unveiled the marker as about 200 people looked on. The event was the first of many the museum plans to hold throughout 2017.
“This is just the beginning of a 
large number of celebratory events that the museum will have,” Fuchs said. “It’s part of our heritage from the very first day that we were a uni-versity.”
The museum is 125 years old, but 
it was signed into legislation as the 
official state-designated natural his-
tory museum 100 years ago, Jones 
said at the event. 
Over the past year, the museum’s 
staff discovered about 200 species 
and published 218 peer-reviewed 
books and articles, he said. The 
museum gets about 200,000 visitors 
each year. 
The museum, once a one-floor 
building, now holds more than 40 
million specimens and has a bud-
get of about $30 million, museum 
spokesman Paul Ramey said.
“We’re one of the top university-
based museums in the country and 
have one of the largest research col-
lections,” he said.Fuchs said the museum has been 
able to balance its attractions while 
emphasizing research. 
“It’s become a wonderful place 
for the public to see butterflies and 
skeletons of mammoths and fossils 
of dinosaurs,” he said. “But it’s also a research place for scholars to do 
research on some of these exhibits.”
UF Provost Joe Glover, who at-
tended the event, said the celebra-
tion was a moment to look back at 
the museum’s history.
“I think it’s a wonderful occasion 
that reflects a century of incredible 
service both to the state of Florida 
and to the scientific community 
around the nation and around the 
world,” Glover said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgFlorida Museum starts 100th year celebrationTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
SHE’S HOPING TO RAISE $4,000 
THROUGH A GOFUNDME PAGE.
By Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
For a local woman helping the home-
less, it’s the little things that count: toilet-
ries, clean underwear and pillows.
These are just some of the items Chris-
tina Frazier, a 27-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent, plans to put in backpacks to give to 
homeless people and veterans.
She began a GoFundMe page and said 
she hopes to raise $4,000 for supplies to fill as many bags as she can.
Frazier started the fundraiser Aug. 27, 
and she will keep the page up through the 
holiday season, she said.
The backpacks will be filled with non-
perishable food and other essentials.While volunteering for the American 
Red Cross Association, Frazier said she 
learned that she enjoyed making a differ-
ence and decided to take on a project of 
her own.
“I have seen firsthand how even a sim-
ple care package brings a little happiness,” she said.
Frazier is also a stay-at-home mom 
whose family has a history of military ser-vice, she said. Her father and husband are 
Army veterans, and her brother is current-
ly serving in the military. 
She hopes to have backpacks ready by 
November so she can start delivering them in December, Frazier said. 
Her husband and her father are going to 
help her deliver them to homeless shelters 
and other groups.
Frazier said she just wants people to 
know others care about them.“I want to keep this going for years to 
come and pass on this drive to my son so 
he can learn how to help others as well,” 
Frazier said.
Jon DeCarmine, the operations manager 
at Grace Marketplace, said for a homeless 
person with little resources, simple house-
hold items can seem like gold.
Grace Marketplace, located at 3055 NE 
28th Ave., is a shelter that provides ser-vices to Gainesville’s homeless population, 
DeCarmine said. 
But people like Frazier, who collect ma-
terials for those who need them, help a lot. 
“I think for many people, the most im-
portant thing something like this does is 
reminds them that they’re still cared for and that there are still people who are con-
cerned about their well-being,” DeCarmine 
said.
He said people sometimes take basic ne-cessities for granted.
“Just think about when you go camp-
ing and living outside for the past week and how good it feels to take that first hot 
shower,” DeCarmine said. “People who are living outside are dealing with being out 
there all of the time. So anything that can 
help get them back to feeling more human 
is a huge asset.”GNV woman collecting backpacks for homeless, veterans
ITEMS BEING DONATED  
IN BACKPACKS: 
• Underwear
• T oothbrushes
• T oothpaste
• Shampoo and conditioner
• Pillows
• Nonperishable foodThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
For the second time last Thursday, San 
Francisco 49ers backup quarterback Co-lin Kaepernick refused to stand for the national anthem before an NFL preseason game. In his own words: “I am not going 
to stand up to show pride in a ﬂ  ag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color. To me, this is bigger than football, and it would be selﬁ  sh for me to look the other way.”
Conﬂ  ict over the relationship between law 
enforcement and minority groups has been an issue since long before last week. Kaepernick only added to the de-bate of whether people have the right to choose to stand for the national anthem. As many feel passionate about both issues, this column will not pick sides, but rather argue that there is a better way to use football to improve the relationship between citizens and police ofﬁ  cers.
To many Americans, certain cities have recently come 
to represent the relationship between minority groups and law enforcement. But before Baltimore, Maryland, and Ferguson, Missouri, there was a Los Angeles neighbor-hood called Watts. 
Just months after the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was 
signed, riots broke out in Watts when spectators of an African-American motorist’s arrest grew enraged at what they considered yet another case of the police abusing au-thority. Over six days, 34 people died, nearly 4,000 were arrested and $40 million worth of property was destroyed. These riots remain the worst case of crime and violence in LA, with the exception of the 1992 Rodney King riots. 
However, The New York Times reported in 2015 that 
even after decades of unrest between Watts residents and police ofﬁ  cers, locals feel relationships with the police have never been better. A major cause of these improved relations stems from the effort community leaders and police ofﬁ  cers put into changing the way children view police ofﬁ  cers. And how do you bridge law enforcement with the youth? Football.
Watts wasn’t the ﬁ  rst place to use football 
as a way to keep boys out of trouble, but it be-came the ﬁ  rst neighborhood to have a football team coached solely by local police ofﬁ  cers: the Watts Bears. The team started in 2011 when of-ﬁ  cers went door-to-door in Watts’ housing proj-ects, asking families if they were interested in having their sons join a free football program. Ofﬁ  cers recall that initially parents responded 
with, “You’re the police? No, they can’t play with you. My children are taught not to trust you.” But eventually, par-ents brought their children to practice, building up a trust with police ofﬁ  cers that they never experienced before. Children now enjoy a game they love while looking at the police differently. 
When exchanging a gun and badge for gym shorts and 
a whistle, ofﬁ  cers are viewed as citizens of the community who can be trusted rather than feared.
The program has even morphed beyond the football 
ﬁ  eld. According to the local ABC News channel, all play-ers of the Watts Bears are required to attend a six-week summer-school program. Although the children were re-luctant to go at ﬁ  rst, they eventually took their enthusiasm from the ﬁ  eld into the classroom. As one player put it, “I want to show my talent in school and on the ﬁ  eld.” So what some consider just to be a game has proven an abil-ity to alleviate problems deemed impossible to solve with traditional policies. 
Watts is an example of how football can be a medium 
for change. This is the way football should be used to im-prove relations between law enforcement and American citizens. Colin Kaepernick has the right to do whatever it is he’s doing to see change in this country, but there are better ways of using football to achieve the same goal.  
Joshua Udvardy is a UF environmental engineering 
sophomore. His column appears on Thursdays.
How football is being used for change in LA
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Joshua Udvardy
opinions@alligator.orgRight now, a university is suing its student newspaper. 
It’s a lawsuit that came about after the university 
refused to release information about a case involv-ing an associate professor being accused of sexual harassment and assault. The independent student 
newspaper got a copy of the records and began writing ar-ticles — so now the university is suing its own students. 
And don’t worry, it’s not us. It’s the University of Ken-
tucky. 
Now, unless you happily live in blissful football ignorance, 
you probably know the Gators play UK this week, and that means we’re smack in the middle of Kentucky Hate Week. In light of that, we at the Alligator would like to offer one more reason for your dislike — and a reason to send some support to the staff of the Kentucky Kernel. 
This whole saga began in the Spring when UK investigated 
associate professor James Harwood on charges of sexual as-sault after two complainants and a total of ﬁ  ve victims re-ported instances of sexual assault or harassment. Harwood denied any wrongdoing, and before the end of the semester, he had signed a resignation agreement that allowed him to receive continued pay and beneﬁ  ts up until last  week. 
The Kernel reported on it and submitted a public records 
request to the school for the paperwork from the investiga-tion — a request that was denied. When the state attorney general told the school to provide the documents, UK refused and then sued the student paper over the decision the attor-ney general made. 
First of all, we at the Alligator would like to thank the 
Kernel staff members for their commitment to the ideals of journalism and dedication to uncovering this story. It’s not easy to stand up to the school that educates and houses you, especially when it involves potential legal consequences, and we applaud all of the outstanding work you continue to do. 
And to UK? Shame on you. Shame on you for protecting a faculty member over your 
own students, the ones who say a professor they trusted as-saulted and victimized them. Shame on you for trying to cov-er this up by withholding public records. Most of all, shame on you for taking on a student newspaper in a desperate at-tempt to keep the truth from the students you serve. 
Thanks to the First Amendment, it’s our job and our right 
as members of the press, students or not, to write stories that inform and educate, especially if this means bringing atten-tion to problems involving people in power. 
Many states, including Kentucky, have various laws sur-
rounding public records and the access thereof. For the most part, these laws give citizens the right to access public docu-ments upon request, barring numerous necessary exemp-tions. And the records the Kernel requested weren’t exempt. Thus, the university has completely violated those public re-cord laws by withholding the investigation documents. 
As students, we attended higher-education institutions to 
acquire exactly that: higher education. In turn, it is a univer-sity’s responsibility to nurture that quest for knowledge and help us ﬂ  ourish in that pursuit. But UK is doing the exact opposite. It is an attempt to extinguish the student paper’s attempt to be better journalists: people who hold their au-thorities accountable. Universities should encourage students to strive for excellence in each of their chosen ﬁ  elds of study — not sue them for it.  A message to the 
University of KentuckyTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
It’s hard to believe it’s been 15 years. I 
can still remember sitting in my ﬁ  rst-grade classroom as the routine morning announcements played on the television, just as they had every day. Nothing un-
usual. When the announcements were over, my teacher turned on a local news broadcast. Maybe she had heard what was happening. Maybe it was a coincidence. I don’t remem-ber.
The date was Sept. 11, 2001. I was 6 years 
old.
I don’t remember many details of the day’s 
events. They’ve grown foggy with time. But 
there’s one I can’t forget: I’ll never under-
stand why my teacher thought it was a good idea to keep that television on. Perhaps she got lost in the gravity of the moment and for-got we were watching with her. But as she, like millions of others, sat glued to the live feed coming in from New York, United Air-lines Flight 175 crashed into the south tower of the World Trade Center. One plane crash could be an accident, but not two. It was the moment the world realized America was under attack.
There are certain moments in 
history that will forever impact the people who lived through them. 
Ask anyone who can still re-
member, and they’ll tell you exact-ly where they were when President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963. For people even older, ask about when Japan bombed Pearl Harbor in 1941. These water-
shed moments deﬁ  ned their respective gen-
erations.
But time passes. New generations grow 
up and supplant the old. The anniversaries of these events no longer resonate with the sol-emn weight they once held.
And now, a decade and a half later, 9/11 
is succumbing to the same fate. A sizeable chunk of the population has no memory of it. My brother, who was 3 years old at the time, was too young to remember. He’s now a freshman in college, and he’s not 
alone. I’m at the tail end of the age 
group that has any recollection.
And even though my memory 
mostly consists of one vivid detail, it’s still only a fragment. I wasn’t old enough to justly grasp the mag-
nitude of what was happening in the same fashion as my parents, for example. The at-tacks didn’t change my life in any way as a 
child. They didn’t shake my worldview or 
make me question my faith in humanity. I knew something was happening — it was plastered all over the newspaper and TV — but I didn’t know what exactly was happen-ing or what it meant.
This rising generation of teenagers and 
young adults has grown up in a purely post-9/11 world. Yet although it’s been 15 years, ramiﬁ  cations are still evident. Aftershocks from the attacks inﬂ  uence foreign and domes-tic policy and, speciﬁ  cally, the ﬁ  ght against radical-Islamic terrorism and the Islamic State 
group. It’s an issue that has reared its ugly 
head several times in the last calendar year with the bombings in Brussels, the hijacked truck in Nice, France, and the shootings at the Bataclan theater in Paris and Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, to name a few.
After each attack, we like to tell ourselves 
that we’ll never forget. It makes us feel bet-ter to show such signs of solidarity. But our 
proclivity to forget is both dangerous and in-
evitable.
It has been said that those who do not 
learn from the past are condemned to repeat it. This is true. But more importantly, they de-serve to repeat it.
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Fifteen years later, do not forget what happened during the 9/11 attacksColumn
Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.org
On the off chance you’ve been pay-ing attention to my byline, you may have noticed I have two very differ-ent majors: English and computer science. Your reaction is probably 
one of complete, utter confusion or a strange, hesitant sense of awe — maybe even some combination of the two. Whatever it is, I get it. Even though people who are good at both artsy things and tech things exist (and are actually far more common than you’d be-lieve), it’s rare someone decides to take the leap and actually do both things. But trust me, we’re around. 
When I went to the advising ofﬁ  ce to drop 
off some forms related to my dual degree, a 
very enthusiastic desk associate bombarded 
me with questions about my double life: 
Which do you prefer? (Well, it depends on 
the project.) Do you drink a lot of coffee? 
(You don’t even know.) He was very friend-ly, and I was more than happy 
to tell him about how I balance majors. But as I left the ofﬁ  ce, I couldn’t help but wonder why people are so surprised by this.
For some reason, society has 
built a rigid either-or mental-ity and has bombarded us with it since childhood. We’ve grown up believing science, technology, engineering and mathematics and humanities exist at opposite ends of this institutionalized spectrum.
Most “hard-core” STEM people believe 
technology and science are the only evolving and pertinent ﬁ  elds out there. An engineer-ing major in my calculus class freshman year bragged about how all other majors were irrelevant. When I was 16, my friend con-vinced me to come to a For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Tech-nology robotics meeting with her, where some man on a television screen announced to us that only STEM mattered and ﬁ  elds like theater and literature were dying because they just told the same stories over and over again.
And don’t think humanities 
people are free from blame here, either. I’ve heard so many really artsy people brag about how re-
moved they are from technology and how they don’t know how to do math. I’ve had a lot of those people tell me I’m not truly following my passion because I decided to double major. 
To these people, I say get over yourself.There is no spectrum with science on one 
end and art on the other. The human brain is capable of such profound complexities, be it engineering an algorithm or writing a novel, painting a masterpiece or constructing a new app. Hailing one accomplishment as superior to another is trivializing. Just look at Leon-ardo da Vinci, a talented artist and fantastic inventor who knew there could be no sci-ence without art and vice versa.
The best, brightest people I know under-
stand there is no severe dichotomy between STEM and the humanities. They are engi-neers who paint in their free time. They are musicians who take chemistry classes for fun. Even if they don’t have particular talent or afﬁ  nity for their alternate interests, they still appreciate the hard work, passion and drive that goes into it.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her column appears 
on Thursdays.
STEM versus humanities: the divide that shouldn’t exist between degreesColumn
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Music roundup: recent releases
PartyNextDoor, Travis Scott and more, pg. 10Ft. Lauderdale band does Beatles tribute
The Heavy Pets at High Dive, pg. 9By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Gainesville will host a com-
pletely solar-powered music event 
called Sunstock Solar Festival on Friday night.
The idea for the sustainable fes-
tival was created by Los Angeles band Trapdoor Social, the event’s headlining band.
Trapdoor Social’s Skylar Funk 
met Merritt Graves while they both were studying environmental anal-ysis at Pomona College in Southern California. The future band mem-bers bonded over a shared love of 
music and interest in sustainabili-
ty, Funk, the group’s vocalist, said. 
The band, which consists of 
Funk, Graves, Louie Gonzalez, Ben Ebert and Patrick Griffen, has made its mission to utilize alterna-tive sources of energy, particularly solar energy, to power its tours. 
Sunstock Solar Festival of 
Gainesville will be held at Swamp Head Brewery, the ﬁ  rst solar-pow-ered brewery in Florida, said Bran-don Nappy, the brewery’s market-ing director. 
The brewery’s reputation for 
being a company committed to sustainability made it the perfect choice to host the music festival. 
“When we see other people 
who are really trying to break the mold and trying to come up with innovative ideas…It’s important to us to be able to help get the mes-sage out,” Nappy said. 
Trapdoor Social’s ﬁ  rst Sunstock 
Solar Festival was in Los Angeles this past June. Now, the band is on tour doing solar-powered shows.
“We’re not the ﬁ  rst people to do 
it,” Funk said, “but we don’t have very many models to follow, so we’re willing to pioneer this thing.”
Putting on these shows is all 
about creating a discussion for sustainability, Griffen, the band’s bassist, said.
“Generally we’re stronger in our 
numbers if everybody is kind of to-gether on the same page,” he said. “That’s when things start to move a lot more quickly.”
Making connections with peo-
ple is important to the band. These connections with other bands and “solar partners” help sponsor events and let Trapdoor Social put on bigger and better sustainable shows. 
For this event, Re-Tech Repair 
Experts and Solar Impact are local partners. Griffen said one major 
Re-Tech-sponsored innovation at 
the festival will be solar-powered phone-charging stations. 
The festival is more than just 
drinking beer and having a good time. While the band wants people to have fun and let loose, the mem-bers also want to create a dialogue about the need for sustainability in 
the ﬁ  ght against climate change. 
“The main underlying message 
here is to promote environmental 
sustainability and to tell the world that solar power is ready,” Griffen said.
The Savants of Soul, Cerami-
cats, Duppies, Latchkey and The Forum will also play at the festival.The Forum, an alternative rock 
band made up of current and for-mer UF students, started writing 
and recording music in Decem-
ber 2015, said Michael Higgins, a 21-year-old UF telecommunication junior and the band’s guitarist and vocalist.  
When Trapdoor Social asked 
Alex Klausner, the drummer of The Savants of Soul, to round up bands willing to play for the festival, lit-
tle-known band The Forum made 
the list.
Higgins said he had never heard 
of a music festival being com-pletely powered by the Sun, but he thought it would spark a lot of conversation among concertgoers.
“When people hear about that, I 
think it will kind of be intriguing,” 
he said. “It’s a cool way to get peo-
ple interested in (sustainability).”
Funk said the more he stud-
ies the issues that are shaping our world, the more he is convinced of the need for a stronger movement for sustainability. 
Bringing people together with 
music has been Trapdoor Social’s 
way of doing its part in the envi-
ronmental movement.
“Our generation has a lot of 
work to do,” Funk said. 
Sunstock Solar Festival will 
be held from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m at Swamp Head Brewery, located at 3650 SW 42nd Ave. The event is free and open to all ages. 
 Sunstock Solar Festival brings sustainable jams
MUSIC
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville’s Sunstock Solar Festival will take place at 
Swamp Head Brewery, Florida’s first solar-powered brew-ery, on Friday night. The event is free and starts at 5 p.m. 
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
Taste Pho & Noodle House, lo-
cated at 3117 SW 34th St., will host 
its second annual pho-eating con-test today at 7 p.m.
Hung Nguyen, the owner and 
operator of Taste, came up with the idea after some friends suggested it 
to him.
“I thought it would be fun (to) 
start a tradition here in Gainesville,” 
Nguyen said.
Pho, a traditional Vietnamese 
soup dish consisting of rice noodles, broth, herbs and meat, typically beef or chicken, is popular among university students, with several 
restaurants around town devoted to 
the dish. Taste is one of them.
Debbie Diep, a UF psychology 
junior, said she goes to Taste for its convenience and delicious food.
“I love the variety of Vietnamese 
food… along with the great atmo-
sphere the restaurant brings,” she 
said.
The pho-eating contest at Taste 
is composed of two rounds. The ﬁ  rst is qualiﬁ  ers. 
Participants pay $20 for two 
bowls of pho and have 15 minutes to ﬁ  nish both.
Nguyen said 12 people have at-
tempted the challenge. The fastest amount of time recorded as of Tues-day night is 2 minutes, 48 seconds.
The six contestants to ﬁ  nish the 
two bowls in the shortest amount of time will compete at the ﬁ  nal show-down, which is taking place today.
Contestants will have 15 min-
utes to eat as many bowls of pho as 
they can. The person who eats the 
most will take home the grand prize of $300. The second-place winner will receive a $150 Taste gift card, and the third-place winner will re-
ceive a $50 gas card.
Last year’s winner ate 5 pounds, 
1 ounce of food, and the runner-up 
ate 4 pounds, 8 ounces, Nguyen said. 
“I hope this year (a) contestant 
will beat that number,” he said.
Last year, the restaurant was 
packed as students and community 
members gathered to watch the 
competition. Nguyen said he ex-pects it to be even more crowded this time around.
“People should come out to 
the pho contest for a good time and cheer on their friends,” said Nhi Huynh, a Taste employee and UF health education and behavior 
junior. “Events like this bring the 
community together.”  Taste’s pho-eating contest returns
FOOD
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
High Dive will put Gainesville’s 
ﬁ  nest rap and R&B artists on display with its Local Hip Hop Showcase event today. The venue, located at 210 SW Second Ave., will kick off 
the show at 8 p.m. and will feature 
rappers with all-star connections. 
Artists and performers include 
NostroDonny, J Lite, Rucku$ Royal, GoodBuzz, Big Win and Sticky L headlining the event. 
“High Dive is the foremost 
venue for underground hip-hop in Gainesville,” venue promoter Pat Lavery said. “Fans can expect a high energy mix of local Gainesville tal-
ent, with a big sound and light sys-
tem to accompany them.” 
Sticky L is a hip-hop artist origi-
nally from Lake City, Florida. He has opened for several big-name art-ists such as T-Pain, Pitbull and Lil Boosie, but High Dive’s event will mark Sticky L’s ﬁ  rst major headlin-ing performance. 
The artist describes his sound 
as “very energetic; deﬁ  nitely down-south, club-crunk music.” As far as tonight’s performance goes, he looks forward to seeing his fans and said they should expect absolute “may-hem” during the show. 
Sticky L began getting involved 
with hip-hop music between fourth and ﬁ  fth grade, but it was not until 
about 10 years ago that he began re-
cording professionally. 
Music is many things for him: It 
is his income and how he supports himself and his daughter, his thera-py and escape from the world and it is his drug, hearing the crowd chant-ing his name and knowing that hard work pays off, he said. 
The show will be restricted to 
those 18 and older or minors ac-companied by a parent or guardian.  Advance tickets are available at tick-etﬂ  y.com and at the door for $5.  Local rappers performBy Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Ft. Lauderdale-based quintet 
The Heavy Pets will be playing a set 
composed entirely of Beatles cov-ers Friday at High Dive in a tribute show the group affectionately calls 
“Walrus.” 
The Heavy Pets is a band that 
blends elements of jazz, funk, 
blues, reggae and rock into its eclectic sound. Originally formed in 2005, the band has released six full-length studio albums since and played countless music festivals across the country, including hun-
dreds of shows in Florida alone. 
This will be the first time The Heavy Pets will perform a “Walrus” set in Gainesville. 
“Walrus” includes several Bea-
tles favorites such as “Maxwell’s Silver Hammer,” “All My Loving” and “A Day in the Life,” in the jazzy, funky, rock ’n’ roll style The 
Heavy Pets is known for.
“Walrus started as a one-off idea 
that we had last October,” Jeff Lloyd, 
the group’s guitarist and vocalist, said. “We were celebrating our 10-year anniversary for the band, and we wanted to do something special for our fans. We played a Beatles tribute set once, and we enjoyed 
it so much we took it all over the country. But this might be one of 
the last ones we do for a while.”
“Walrus,” however, is just one 
facet of The Heavy Pets career. None of the group’s six full-length albums is a cover album. The band has plenty of original material that ranges in style and sound. Every member of The Heavy Pets has writ-ten songs for the band, and four of the five members sing. 
“Working to dissect these Beatles 
songs, as a band, has had a great impact on the way that we write our own original material these days.” Lloyd said. “I think we’re a better band for having done this.” 
Many consider The Heavy Pets 
to be a jam band, and some find this term to be indicative of long winded, hard-to-listen-to music. 
While the band members accept 
this label and agrees they are a jam band, they realize the term some-times brings a negative connotation. 
 “‘Jam band’ is kind of a dirty 
word these days, but it means a lot to people who are in the know,”  Lloyd said. “I think the jam band scene has some of the most talented 
musicians in the game right now, 
whether it’s through electronic music, jazz music, world music or straight rock ’n’ roll.”
No matter what your opinion is 
on jam bands is, The Heavy Pets show Friday at High Dive will fea-ture only reworked Beatles songs that fit into a variety of genres. Take the band’s cover of “Maxwell’s Sil-ver Hammer,” for example. Lloyd 
describes The Heavy Pets’ take on 
this classic track to be heavily in-spired by New Orleans-style funk. 
“The Heavy Pets bring a high 
energy, genre-bending live show every time I have seen them play,” Pat Lavery, the promoter for High Dive, said. 
Gainesville folk-rock band Cap-tains of the Frontier will open the show Friday. Admission to the show is $14 at the door, with ad-vance tickets for $10 at the High Dive box office and $11 at Hear 
Again Records. Doors open at 9 
p.m., and the show starts at 10 p.m.THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Rebecca Santana
Avenue Writer
Artisans and craftsmen from all over Alach -
ua County will come together Saturday to show-case their work at the One Love Cafe Craft Show.
Virginia Lynn-Brinson, the show’s creator, 
will bring together local vendors such as Origami Owl, The Pampered Chef, Usborne Books & More and The Bumpkin Patch will be presenting and selling their unique goods and services. Goods 
sold by the artisans include handcrafted jewelry, 
original fashion pieces and handmade home de-cor.
Lynn-Brinson is hosting this craft show for the 
second time this year and said she feels very pas-sionate about its mission. She said she believes in helping her community by bringing these local businesses to light. 
Although patrons could buy these products 
through Amazon or Etsy, she said, she believes buying locally helps grow the local economy. This is the ultimate goal of the craft show. 
The event will be held at One Love Cafe, lo-
cated at 4989 NW 40th Place, and will run from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Food will be served by the cafe, which is known for its sandwiches and sliders as well as its selection of local brews. 
Lynn-Brinson said the local artists are excited 
to get their names out into the world and are hoping for a large turnout to put their talents on display. She urged the Gainesville community to come out and show its support for these home-grown establishments and for the local economy.One Love Cafe shows local artCourtesy to the Alligator
The Heavy Pets, a quintet from Ft. Lauderdale, will perform a Beatles tribute entitled “Wal-
rus” on Friday at High Dive. Doors open at 9 p.m. for the 10 p.m. show, and advance tickets are $10 at High Dive box office, $11 at Hear Again Records or $14 at the door. 
The Heavy Pets brings Beatles tribute show to High Dive
By Natalie Rao
Avenue Writer
Those looking to keep the party going 
after Saturday’s football festivities will 
be able to head downtown for a journey back in time to the ’50s and ’60s.   
The Wooly is hosting Under the 
Boardwalk, a ’50s-and-’60s-themed event on Saturday. This is the second beach-themed party to be held at the 
venue this year, after it hosted a Beach 
Ball party  in May.
“When we did the Beach Ball, we 
had an amazing turnout with outfits,” Audrey Dingeman, an event manager at the Wooly, said. While dressing up is not mandatory, the event gives guests the opportunity to be creative and have fun with their clothes.  
 Under the Boardwalk will include 
a ring toss, a large lifeguard cutout for a photo booth and a snack buffet that drives the ’50s and ’60s beach theme home with mini corn dogs, saltwater taf-fy and carnival-inspired foods. DJ Cam will be on the decks playing ’50s and ’60s music as well as current hits. 
The party kicks off at 9 p.m. and will 
go on until 2 a.m. Cover is $5 at the door, and the event is for ages 21 and up. 
“You can have some fun with friends 
and maybe make some new ones, too,” said Anthony Verdi, the event’s co-host. The Wooly to go retro10   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
By Julia Nevins
Avenue Writer
Dear Mediocre,
How do I ﬁ  nd a study group and 
make friends?
-Mr. LonelyDear Mr. Lonely,
There are so many ways to 
make friends on campus. Maybe 
you’re not even a student, but you’re seeking companionship at the library. My advice is to go with your gut. If you see a group of col-lege girls with their heads in their books, pull up a chair and join their group. No questions asked. Maybe 
they’re physics majors and you’re 
studying art history. Who cares? And never disclose anything truth-ful about yourself, because there is probably a reason you don’t have friends in the ﬁ  rst place. It’s OK to make things up about yourself. This is college. Hope that helps,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
How do I tell people that I don’t 
want to party?
-Buzz KillDear Buzz Kill,Stop being a pansy and take the 
shot. Instead of having the thought process that you don’t want to party, just change how you party. 
What I mean is simple. Go big, or 
just go home. The second you hit the scene, whether it’s a party, a club or a study group, make sure to be the ﬁ  rst person to do at least two shots. Then, after every other person there takes a shot, challenge them and take another. Once you’re on your ﬁ  fth shot of tequila, that 
whole nonsense about not wanting 
to party will seem like nothing more than a distant memory. 
Cheers,Mediocre 
Dear Mediocre,
I’m afraid of registering for my 
last semester. How do I combat the 
anxiety of life after graduation?
-Not ReadyDear Not Ready,First things ﬁ  rst, make peace 
with the idea that you’ll probably be sleeping on your parents’ sofa in just a few months, so live it up, but-
tercup. Second, your student loan 
debt is literally going to drown you and prevent you from doing any-thing fun until you’ve paid it off in about 30 years. Honestly, it’s going to suck. If I were you, I’d try really hard to just fail everything and have to retake classes. That’ll buy you a few more semesters, and maybe 
you can hatch up some plan to es-
cape your impending doom in the meantime. Either way, good luck. 
-Mediocre 
 Mediocre Advice: friends, parties By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
There have been some incredible 
releases so far in 2016 and over the past few weeks, several established artists released projects that are deﬁ  -nitely worth checking out. Here are 
some of the best:
PartyNextDoor – PartyNext-
Door 3 – Aug. 12
The hype was real for PartyNext-
Door’s third album, and sadly, it 
did not live up to it. I consider my-self a PartyNextDoor super-fan and couldn’t wait for his latest project, but I just couldn’t get into it. Many 
people ﬁ  nally started realizing Party 
is the mastermind behind Drake’s “October’s Very Own” record label when a reference track of Rihanna’s “Work” surfaced, showing the No. 1 hit was originally a PND song. May-be I have to let it grow on me, but in 
my opinion, if you don’t listen to it, 
you aren’t missing anything.
Rae Sremmurd – “SremmLife 
2” – Aug. 12
Rae Sremmurd debuted in a ma-
jor way with “SremmLife” back in 2015, and they showed that they’re here to stay with “SremmLife 2”. The duo hasn’t made a bad song 
yet despite their sophomore album 
exploring new sounds and ideas. Throw the album on, and get ready to turn up.
Tory Lanez – “I Told You” – 
Aug. 19
Even though Tory Lanez is a rela-
tively new artist, he’s already made a huge impact on the game. With hits like “Say It” and “Luv,” Tory Lanez has displayed his versatile style that many compare to Drake. While we 
can’t escape the Drake compari-
sons, we can appreciate good music, and that’s exactly what Tory gave us. Even though it’s been out for a few weeks, I can’t decide whether “I Told You” or Drake’s “Views” is better. Tory Lanez has a great sing-ing voice and can rap just as good as anyone in the game, and because of 
that, no features are needed. 
Young Thug – “Jeffery” – Aug. 
25
Many people love Young Thug 
and many people dislike him, but 
most importantly, everyone has an opinion of him. Personally, I think Young Thug is an amazing artist who helps push the rap game for-ward and he continually improves his rapping and sound. “Jeffery” is a unique album from the cover art, 
where Thug poses in a dress, to the 
tracklisting, where the song titles are named after people who have inﬂ  u-enced him in his career. I absolutely love “Jeffery” and I think everyone should give it a listen.
Isaiah Rashad – “The Sun’s Ti-
rade” – Sept. 2
Top Dawg Entertainment is a pre-
miere record label that features art-ists such as Kendrick Lamar, School-Boy Q, Jay Rock, SZA, Ab-Soul and Isaiah Rashad, among others. The lineup of artists alone should give you an idea of what kind of rapper Isaiah Rashad is and his ability. If you’re looking for a new artist to get into, then check out this debut album from the TDE artist.
Travis Scott – “Birds In The 
Trap Sing McKnight” – Sept. 2
By now you’ve probably noticed 
that I’m a huge fan of Travis Scott. I thought he had the best album of 2015 with “Rodeo,” and nearly a year to the day, La Flame released his fourth project in four years. “BITTSM” is simply perfect. There’s not a single bad song, and the fea-tures are unique and unexpected. 
Travis links up with Andre 3000, Kid 
Cudi, Nav, 21 Savage, Kendrick La-mar and many others to create one of the most lit albums in a while. Travis is one of the most talented producers and rappers and has been over the past few years, and he continues to improve. “BITTSM” is full of bangers and is an obvious must-listen. 
 Music Roundup: PartyNextDoor, Travis Scott and more
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
This weekend, Kanapaha Botanical 
Gardens will host Paint Out, an annual event in which about 20 local land-scape artists join together to create a live painting experience inspired by the 
gardens around them. 
The event is part of the 13th World-
wide Artist Paint Out. The global nature 
of this event connects artists from all over the world through a common un-derstanding and pursuit of art. 
Here in Gainesville, Paint Out pro-
vides a unique opportunity for those involved. The event, which will run 
Friday through Sunday, will allow the 
public to interact with and experience the techniques of local artists and give artists exposure within the community.
A botanical gardens representative 
said the event “is another way for us to 
expose people to the gardens.” 
As patrons wander through the gar-
dens, they will encounter artists work-
ing their trade and be able to chat with them. On Sept. 16 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., Kanapaha will host a sale of the works produced during Paint Out, and 
40 percent of the sales will go back to 
the gardens. 
Admission for Paint Out is free for 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens members and remains at the gardens’ normal rate for nonmembers. Adult admission is 
$8, children ages 5 to 13 have a $4 entry 
fee and children under 5 enter for free.Botanical Gardens 
to hold Paint Out
ARTBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male 
roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Stephen 407-733-0234 / sgatorlong@ufl.edu 9-30-16-27-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
3 BLOCKS FROM UF
4BR/2BA, fireplace, fenced yard. All appli -
ances including W/D, DW. Pets ok. $400/BR or $1400/mo. Call Carol 352-359-3341    9-3-16-29-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Mattress Sale
New - Sets Starting @ $150Must Sell352.327.8002        9-30-16-30-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Pool table slate 7' leather cover & accessories $400 OBO
You move. 352-378-6502
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-121For Rent
furnished
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     9-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the fall semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
ACROSS
1 The 1% in 1%
milk
4 Court activity
9 Baseball’s
“Georgia Peach”
13 Common
refreshment
15 TV comic Kovacs16 Campers’
gathering place
17 Bill “Bojangles”
Robinson’s forte
19 Actress Lena20 Amazon’s biz21 Really dug23 One may be
tipped
24 Translate, in a
way
26 Landscaper’s
contraption
28 Chef’s creation31 Heavenly figure33 Cadillac compact36 Soup bean
38 Cookout spot
39 Roman landmark
graphicallyportrayed by thispuzzle’s circles
43 Big fight44 Elegant molding45 Collecting Soc.
Sec.
46 Claim in a tissue
ad
48 Not us
51 Brand in a B-52
cocktail
53 Jerks
57 Promise58 One rooting for
the Niners,briefly
61 Open, in a way62 “Iliad” warrior64 Chaucer
narrative told byHuberd, with“The”
66 Trim67 “__ Doone”68 Museum
contents
69 Produced with
effort, with “out”
70 English
assignment
71 Transitory
passionDOWN
1 Destined
2 Striped stone3 Rapper __
Shakur
4 Coop occupant5 Sea predator6 “Will do!”7 Cone makers8 Smooth
transitions
9 One who might
be a CPA
10 Winter warmer11 Holmes
accessory
12 Like a crowbar14 “I’m outta here”18 Six-time Emmy
winner
22 Chums, slangily25 First name in jazz27 “Well, shoot”29 Chinese: Pref.30 Buddy32 Colbert, for one33 Devices with
security cameras
34 TV cop with a
Tootsie Pop
35 Mindful of one’s
own needs37 As __: grouped
together
40 MacFarlane of
“Family Guy”
41 Juicing discards42 “If she did play
false, the faultwas __”: Shak.
47 Dust __49 Work50 Figure of
veneration52 Fluffed-up dos54 Winter
accessory
55 Island near Sicily56 Clip
57 Enjoy an e-cig
59 Pretensions60 Family nickname63 Struck (out)65 Slight
manifestation, asof hope
By Jeffrey Wechsler©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/08/1609/08/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, September 8, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 , 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
NOW HIRING UF/SFC Students 
Production / Delivery / Stock Clerks
$10 - $13/hr
Apply at: SmokinNotes.com/Production
9-19-16-12-14
Teach English in Japan with NOVA! 
We are seeking enthusiastic and profes-sional individuals to join our teaching team in Japan!  For more information visit: http://www.nova.co.jp/hd/teachinjapan/    9-9-16-5-14
**Admin Assistant-Frat. Management**Office assistant needed for accounting and management company exclusively dealing with Fraternities at UF. Applicant must be in-telligent, able to multi task, a self-starter, and driven. Microsoft Office skills a must. Office experience and sorority knowledge not re-quired, but a plus. Will work with semesterly schedule, open M-F 9-5. Start at $8.50/hr Submit resume and paragraph about your-self to info@fratmanagement.com     9-9-16-10-14
Seeking responsible, hard-working studentPART-TIME HOUSEWORK / LAND MAINTENANCE ON WEEKENDS.Start at $10/hr.Contact: FairOaks1879@aol.com     9-14-16-5-14
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
ELVIS ROCKS!LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL!
Live Band. Call 352-338-0938    9-30-29-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-73-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Gleim Design is looking for a strong full time Maintenance Tech.Good background in general maintenance. Plumbing, electrical, mechanical and paint-ing skills desirable. Must have a truck and tools. Good driving record. Current drivers license. Ability to lift 50+ lbs.
Stable work. Great benefit package that in-
cludes medical, dental, vision, disability, life, AD&D, profit sharing/retirement, PTO andholiday pay and more.
Please send a resume to hr@gleim.com.    
9-13-16-10-14
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 15 Services 20 Events/Notices
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida's women's tennis team, led by head coach Roland Thornqvist, opens fall play this weekend. Check out the rest of UF's weekend sports lineup, pg. 16. Florida football to host McElwain's alma mater
In 2020, Florida will play Eastern Washington, the school UF coach Jim 
McElwain graduated from in 1984. The game is scheduled for Sept. 5 in Gainesville. Staff Report
The alligatorSports roundtable 
returns for Week 2, and this time 
we’ll discuss what we think will be the biggest key to a Florida win on Saturday against Kentucky. Sports writers Ethan Bauer, Ian Cohen, Jordan McPherson and Patrick Pinak will debate, with arguments going in alphabetical order by last 
name.
BAUER: Receivers
For much of the preseason, 
Florida coach Jim McElwain raved 
about junior wideout Dre Massey. 
He said the junior college trans-
fer would play the slot, return 
kicks and even installed a special-ized wildcat-esque package just for him, where Massey would line up as the quarterback. 
But on the ﬁ  rst play of the 2016 
season, Massey’s season ended. 
And entering SEC play this 
Saturday against Kentucky, the Gators are tasked with replacing 
him. 
The most likely man for the job 
would have been Brandon Powell, 
a player with a similar skillset to 
Massey’s who’s played the slot before. But because of Florida’s 
talent desert at the receiver posi-tion, the junior is starting on the 
outside. 
That didn’t stop the team from 
listing him as a starter twice on 
this week’s depth chart, though, backed up in the slot by freshman 
Freddie Swain and on the outside 
by senior Ahmad Fulwood. 
Whoever locks down that third THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
 What will be Florida's X-factor against Kentucky?BEEN THERE, DONE MATT
Troy Aikman: Hall of Fame quarterback. NFL color com-mentator. Probably not gay. 
If you’re wondering what 
the last part is about, you’ve 
missed out on the latest Skip Bay-
less controversy.
Both sports pundits were in 
the news this week after Aikman 
slammed his own employer, Fox 
Sports, for hiring Skip Bayless to host a talk show titled “Undisput-ed.” 
“(In television), I believe suc-
cess is achieved by acquiring and 
developing talented, respected and 
credible individuals,” Aikman said, “none of which applies to Skip Bay-less.”
There’s been bad blood between 
the two since the 1990s, when Bay-less, a former print journalist, wrote a book on the Dallas Cowboys con-taining about six pages speculating 
on Aikman’s sexuality. 
“There’s no substance to that 
claim, and he’s doing it purely to 
gain interest in a book,” Aikman told a radio show in 2011.
The former Super Bowl cham-
pion isn’t the ﬁ  rst to criticize Bay-less’s afﬁ  nity for attracting atten-tion. Sports fans have long loathed 
Bayless’s hot takes on ESPN’s pre-
miere s--- slinging shouting match, “First Take.”
Spouting off that LeBron James 
is a choker, Tim Tebow is God’s gift to earth, and the Cowboys would regret not drafting Johnny Manziel, Bayless has made a living off his confounding contrarianism. 
Troy Aikman is right. I think Skip 
Bayless realizes there’s as much money in making someone angry as there is in informing them — and it’s working. His attention-grabbing garbling of the facts has scored him a cool $1.5 million pay raise after leaving ESPN for Fox. 
But there’s something inherently  Worst Take: 
The Aikman-
Bayless Fox 
Sports feud
THE GAME IS FLORIDA'S 
CONFERENCE OPENER. 
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The Florida soccer team is coming off a 
7-2 win against Oklahoma State where it set 
a school record with seven goals in the sec-ond half after being held scoreless through the ﬁ  rst.
But the Gators will face a bigger test on the 
road tonight in a venue where they haven’t won a match since 2010. 
No. 5 Florida (4-1-0) will kick off South-
eastern Conference play against Kentucky (2-
2-1) in Lexington, beginning its campaign to 
defend the 2015 SEC regular season and Tour-nament titles.
“It is really exciting to get into SEC games 
for sure,” senior midﬁ  elder Meggie Dougherty Howard said on Wednesday. “It’s kind of a start of a new season because this is when it really gets down to SEC play and those games that really count for us.”
Senior forward Savannah Jordan, who scored two goals Sunday, has a team-high six goals on the season and leads the NCAA with six assists. 
Florida is also second in the NCAA in scor-
ing offense, averaging 3.80 goals per match.
“We have the ability offensively to be really 
good,” sophomore midﬁ  elder Sarah Troccoli said. “(The key is) always moving the ball, we always try to get a high passage completion percentage. Whenever we do that we usually win, so we are trying to work on that.”
The last time Florida played Kentucky was  No. 5 Gators not looking past unranked UK
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15SEE ROUNDTABLE,  PAGE 15UF beat UK 14 -9 last year
Matt Brannon
mbrannon@alligator.org
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Brandon Powell lines up at receiver during Florida's 24-7 win over UMass on Saturday at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium. ROUNDTABLEin 2015 in Gainesville, when the match 
ended in a 1-1 tie.
The Gators are hoping for a win this 
time around.
“I think the biggest thing is just be pre-
pared for a battle,” coach Becky Burleigh said. 
“We haven’t won there the last two 
times we have been there. We tied them last year here. We know that it’s going to be a tough one.”
The Gators have shown resiliency on 
the road, winning two out of three con-secutive road matches.
They have also proven how explosive 
their offense can be at times.
But UF’s coaches and players said they 
have to focus on improving their defense going into conference play.
They have given up eight goals through 
the ﬁ  rst ﬁ  ve matches.
“There is a lot of talent in this league, 
and I think that is evidenced by the re-sults that the league has gotten,” Burleigh said.
 “There is never an easy game in the 
SEC, there’s no doubt about that. And 
so for us, it’s about making sure that we ready and prepared, and ready to bring what we bring to the table every single 
game.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
SOCCER,  from pg 14UF has won two of its last three road matchesspot could either jumpstart or stall 
UF’s offense. 
While Powell and his counter-
part Antonio Callaway both looked 
solid last week against UMass, 
hauling in a touchdown apiece, two 
viable options won’t be enough to keep up with Kentucky’s aerial as-sault. 
UK quarterback Drew Barker 
threw for 323 yards and four touch-
downs despite falling to Southern 
Miss in week one. And while Jalen Tabor and Florida’s experienced defensive backﬁ  eld should be 
able to slow him down more than 
Southern Miss’ could, Florida will 
still need more points, more explo-sive plays and another playmaker. 
COHEN: Offensive line
Luke Del Rio wouldn’t criticize 
his faulty offensive line after Satur-
day’s win, but coach Jim McElwain did.
And so will I.
The offensive line needs to be 
much better against Kentucky for 
the Gators to have a chance at win-ning, and I’m not just talking about in the passing game.
Yes, Del Rio was frequently 
forced to roll outside the pocket and make a quick decision on 
whether to throw it deep, turn to 
his check-down or toss the ball out of bounds to live another day.
But the line affected the running 
game, too.
There weren’t many holes cre-
ated for Florida’s running backs, 
who were often met behind the 
line of scrimmage before they got 
a chance to reach open space. The 
longest run from the running back 
group was 11 yards. In many ways, 
that’s a direct criticism of the ﬁ  ve 
players up front who couldn’t seem 
to move the line of scrimmage.
And this week, it won’t get eas-
ier. Florida’s line will face 6-foot-7, 360-pound Matt Elam, the Wild-
cats’ junior nose tackle.
McElwain said the offensive 
line’s energy has to improve.
“I’ll tell you what bothers me, 
is the way they just mope around and walk around out there instead 
of hustling to the line of scrimmage 
and getting ready to go,” he said.If the offensive line doesn’t hold 
up, Florida can say hello to a 1-1 
record.
MCPHERSON: The second 
half
As an old cliche goes: It’s not 
how you start. It’s how you ﬁ  nish.
That will be the case on Satur-
day, with the second half serving 
as the deciding factor in Kentucky 
and Florida’s SEC opener.
And these teams were polar 
opposites in that regard during 
their opening weekend matchups 
against subpar opponents.
As bad as Florida was for most 
of its season opener against UMass, the Gators offense stepped up in 
the second half, scoring 14 points 
in the ﬁ  nal 30 minutes. 
The defense stopped the Min-
utemen cold in their tracks, al-lowing them to get past midﬁ  eld 
just once and limiting them to one 
third-down conversion.
Kentucky, on the other hand, 
fell ﬂ  at, allowing Southern Miss to score 27 unanswered points in the 
second half (and 34 unanswered 
points overall) en route to a 44-35 upset in favor of the Golden Eagles. 
To take that even further, the 
Wildcats turned the ball over three 
times in their ﬁ  ve second-half 
drives and managed to run just 14 
second-half plays.
“I mean that was the quickest 
reel to ever watch in the history 
of ball, I think,” McElwain said. 
“When you’re going through that, 
it’s like ‘Wait a minute. Where’s 
the rest of it?’”
If the Gators can hold down the 
fort in the second half like South-
ern Miss did against Kentucky, UF 
should have no problem squeezing 
out a second win.
PINAK: Jalen Tabor
You thought we were going to 
leave Jalen Tabor out of this?
Tabor, who was suspended for 
Florida’s season opener after re-
portedly ﬁ  ghting in practice with 
teammate C’yontai Lewis, is ex-
pected to play against Kentucky. 
If UK quarterback Drew Barker 
intends on throwing toward Tabor Island, the Gators will have success 
on defense because Tabor can and 
will make plays. Last year, the 6-foot, 201-pound-
er returned two interceptions for 
touchdowns — the ﬁ  rst Gator to do 
so since Brandon Spikes in 2009. 
But here’s the thing: Even if 
Barker avoids Tabor, UF’s second-
ary will still eat. 
The corner opposite of Tabor, 
Quincy Wilson, is no slouch and he’ll be hungry after not getting 
any balls thrown his way against 
UMass. 
And Duke Dawson, who avoid-
ed a shoulder injury and practiced 
fully this week, will ﬁ  ll in as the 
nickel corner and should help turn 
The Swamp into DBU once again. 
But Tabor’s presence is also felt 
beyond the defensive backs.
Linebackers Jarrad Davis and 
Alex Anzalone, who played well in the opener, will have a little more 
leeway with Tabor on the ﬁ  eld. 
“I think a lot of guys are going 
to be able to really let their guard 
down and go play now,” Davis 
said. “We’re locked tight back 
there.”
It’s safe to say Tabor’s return 
will be a major key come Saturday. ROUNDTABLE,  from pg 14Kentucky's D-Line features 6-foot-7, 360-pound Matt Elam 
different about this exchange. Bringing up a foot-
ball player’s possible homosexuality to sell books is undisputedly over the line. 
To give context, the portion of Bayless’s book in 
question highlights the struggle between Aikman and then-head coach Barry Switzer. Bayless says Switzer, who feuded with Aikman, was pushing for Bayless to write about Aikman’s sexual orien-
tation.
To his credit, Bayless said in a 2009 interview 
that he doesn’t care if Aikman is gay or not. But 
right after, he also said his “only regret about the book is that it does not say that Aikman is gay.”
On a college campus in 2016, being called gay 
isn’t supposed to bother anyone. A New York court even ruled that falsely calling someone gay is no longer slander, since the idea is “based on a 
false premise that it is shameful and disgraceful to 
be described as lesbian, gay or bisexual.”
But that’s not where Aikman was questioned. 
To have rumors about your sexuality ﬂ  oating around in a 1990s Texas locker room is an entirely different story. 
By the time the book was published, Aikman 
rightfully wondered how you even combat a ru-mor like that. 
“How can I ﬁ  ght this?” he said. “Am I supposed 
to keep a girl around even if I don’t care anything about her, just so I can keep everybody off my back?”
But Aikman isn’t a bastion of morality. The 
quarterback has a tendency to be hot-headed, even ﬁ  ring back with “I’m not so sure Skip’s not gay,” in the 2011 interview. 
Instead of ﬂ  inging a homophobic Hail Mary, 
Aikman should’ve refrained from spouting off the same type of speculation that got us here in the ﬁ  rst place. 
At the end of the day, it was wrong for Bayless 
to source an enemy of Aikman’s — a big media ethics no-no — concerning his sexual preferences. And Aikman undermined some fair criticisms with a schoolyard comeback. 
So who wins? That would be Jamie Horowitz, 
the Fox Sports president whose hiring of ESPN’s biggest blockheads and all-press-is-good-press strategy is taking a chunk out of Disney’s bank ac-count. 
Matt Brannon is a sports writer. Contact him at 
mbrannon@alligator.org and follow him on Twit-
ter @MattB_727. COLUMN,  from pg 14
• When : 7 p.m.
• Where : Lexington, 
Kentucky
• Watch : SEC Network and 
WatchESPN
• Listen : ESPN Gainesville 
95.3 FM
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
UF's Sarah Troccoli dribbles during Florida's 3-2 win over Florida State on Aug. 20, 2015, at James G. Pressly Stadium. 16   ALLIGATOR     THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2016
THIS WEEKEND IN 
UF SPORTS
TODAY : 
• Soccer @ Kentucky, 7 p.m., SEC 
Network 
• Women’s tennis @ American Collegiate Invitational, all day
FRIDAY:• Men’s golf @ Carpet Capital Invitational, all day
• Women’s tennis @ American 
Collegiate Invitational, all day
SATURDAY: 
• Football v. Kentucky, 3:30 p.m., CBS
• Men’s golf @ Carpet Capital 
Invitational, all day
• Women’s tennis @ American 
Collegiate Invitational, all day
• Volleyball v. Denver in Brooklyn, 11 a.m., Gatorvision 
SUNDAY: • Men’s golf @ Carpet Capital Invitational, all day
• Volleyball @ LIU Brooklyn, noon, ESPN Gainesville
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Sam Horsﬁ  eld hits a shot during Round 2 of the SunTrust Gator Invitational on Feb. 21 at the Mark Bostick Golf Course. 