We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 122 MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
Florida baseball 
sweeps SEC opener
Buddy Reed hit a two-run homer , pg. 13
Wing Week Madness
An app  offers wing deals around Gainesville, pg.3
Dance Marathon: former miracle kids participate
About  $2.4 million was donated, pg. 5Check us out online
Follow us on Facebook, Twitter 
@TheAlligator and Instagram @thealligator_
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer  
United Faculty of Florida members will 
see a 2.5-percent salary increase April 1.
UF’s Board of Trustees ratiﬁ  ed the sal-
ary increase Friday. The increase applies to 
work done since Jan. 1. Pay increases from 
January to March will be reﬂ  ected in the 
faculty’s April paychecks, said Ryan Full-er, the senior university counsel for human resources, who advises the board on legal matters regarding employment.  
The board voted on the raise Jan. 28, 
but UFF had to discuss and agree to the board’s decision before it could ratify the raise.
“State law requires that the union and 
the university enter into an agreement to amend the collective bargaining agreement consistent with that decision,” Fuller said.
UFF ratiﬁ  ed the raise in a meeting 
Thursday, Fuller said.
At the Jan. 28 Board of Trustees meet-
ing, UFF asked for a 2.75-percent salary in-crease for all UFF faculty in addition to the 
2.5-percent merit increase. The board de-
nied the union’s request because of a lack of available funding, said Board of Trust-ees Chairman Steven Scott at that meeting.
In addition to the salary raise, the board 
unanimously voted for a regulation to give UF President Kent Fuchs the power to approve a new UF engineering project in Sarasota County — the UF Innovation 
Station. It will give businesspeople and en-
trepreneurs access to university resources. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Some faculty 
will see wage increasesADMINISTRATIONBy Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Linda Li and Porter Maerz are moving to 
Pennsylvania to study medicine together. 
All six couples in the UF College of 
Medicine’s master’s program, including 
Li and Maerz, learned they’ll complete 
their residency with their signiﬁ  cant other. On Friday, the 125 students in the pro-
gram opened white envelopes announcing where they will specialize in their area of 
medicine, said Rita Singletary, the ofﬁ  ce 
manager at the Ofﬁ  ce of Student Affairs and Registration at the college. 
“It’s kind of like the Oscars,” said Sin-
gletary. “Nobody knew until today.”
Maerz, 26, said he and Li, 25, read their envelopes together to the audience of about 400 at the Wyndham Garden hotel on 13th Street. They didn’t open it before to see where they were matched.
“Four years came down to this one sheet 
of paper,” said Li, a UF master’s medical 
student. 
 Li and her boyfriend, Maerz, will go 
to Pennsylvania State University together, 
she said. Li will specialize in obstetrics and gynecology while Maerz trains in general surgery. 
Maerz said the two applied to institu-tions as a couple in September 2015, but they didn’t know if they’d be accepted to the same place. About 95 percent of cou-ples get matched together, but there was a chance he would not end up close to Li. 
“When you’re couples matching, there’s 
no guarantee,” Maerz said. 
Li said she met Maerz during their ﬁ  rst 
year of medical school. The two quickly became best friends and started dating in September 2014, during their third year. They had dated about a year before apply-  From the Swamp to scrubs 
SEE MATCH,  PAGE 4
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
“You guys have a beautiful bowling al-
ley,” Bo Burnham said. “Have fun paying 
off that bowling alley for 20 years. That’ll 
be worth it.”
Burnham, a comedian, and DJ Khaled, 
a music producer, entertained students Friday night at the Reitz Union Board En-
tertainment’s third annual Big Orange Fes-
tival. RUB Entertainment paid Burnham $31,000 and Khaled $50,000. 
RUB used the entertainment fee stu-
dents pay as part of UF’s tuition to host the event, said Rene Ciarmataro, 22, the Big 
Orange Festival chairman. This was the 
ﬁ  rst time the festival used the new spaces in the expanded Reitz.
“There is so much more space for us to enjoy,” the UF telecommunication senior 
said. “We wanted students to enjoy what 
the Reitz Union has to offer.”
Along with performances from Burn-
ham and Khaled, RUB Entertainment opened the Game Room all night for free, brought in sculptures — including a big or-
ange — on the ground ﬂ  oor and offered 
students free food.
Burnham’s show started in the Grand 
Ballroom at 9 p.m. RUB had 910 tickets for the show, all of which were claimed.
Amber Shepherd, a UF health education 
and behavior junior, said she got in line to see Burnham at 3 p.m.
“He peeked his head out before when 
we were waiting in line, and he waved at us,” the 21-year-old said.
During his act, Burnham berated an au-
dience member who used his phone during his performance.
Barrett Swartz, a UF ﬁ  nance sopho-
more, said he didn’t expect Burnham to address him.
“He insulted my name and continued to 
do it throughout the show,” the 20-year-old said. “I’m totally ﬁ  ne with that. I love 
Bo.”
Burnham said he spent the day walking 
around campus, going to the Florida Natu-ral History Museum and the Reitz Union.
“I went to your natural history muse-RUB’s Big Orange Festival brings comedian, DJ  
SEE FESTIVAL,  PAGE  4
UF couples go to residency together
Bo Burnham performs at the Reitz Union as part of the Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s Big Orange Festival. 
More than 900 students came to watch the comedian on Friday night. He was paid $31,000.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
“You are already on the right path 
because you’re in school.”
DJ Khaled
Music producer and disk jockeySubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Film on Wrongful Conviction
Gainesville Citizens for 
Alternatives to the Death Penalty 
will show the film “Bloodsworth: 
An Innocent Man” tonight at 7 p.m. at the Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. Main St. A 
recommended donation is $3 
to $5. Refreshments will be served. The film is a documen-tary memoir recounting Kirk Bloodsworth’s remarkable jour-
ney through the criminal justice 
system. An innocent man con-victed and sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit, 
Kirk became the first death-row 
inmate exonerated by DNA evi-dence in the U.S. Viewers will be offered an intimate glimpse into what it is to wake to a liv-
ing nightmare: an innocent man 
caught in the perfect storm of injustice.
‘The Map Thief’ author comes to 
UFMichael Blanding will discuss his book, “The Map Thief: The Gripping Story of an Esteemed 
Rare-Map Dealer Who Made 
Millions Stealing Priceless Maps” on Tuesday at 3 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. 
Maps have long exerted a spe-
cial fascination on viewers — both as beautiful works of art and practical tools to navigate the world. For those who collect 
them, however, the map trade 
can be a cutthroat business, in-habited by quirky and, in some cases, disreputable characters in 
search of a finite number of ex-
tremely rare objects. E. Forbes Smiley III, an esteemed and respectable antiquarian map dealer, spent years doubling as 
a map thief until he was finally 
arrested while delicately tear-ing maps out of books in the Yale University Library in 2005. 
He would later confess to the 
theft of 97 maps valued at over $3 million total and serve 42 months in prison for his crimes.
Toastmasters meet Tuesday
Talking Gators Toastmasters Club meets Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in the Entomology Building, 
located at 970 Natural Area 
Drive, east of the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art. Everyone is welcome to attend and learn about Toastmasters. For de-
tails about Talking Gators, go 
to talkinggators.toastmaster-sclubs.org or the Talking Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is to provide a 
supportive and positive learn-
ing experience in which mem-bers are empowered to develop communication and leadership 
skills, resulting in greater self-
confidence and personal growth.”
‘Concussion’
In collaboration with GatorNIghts, Athlete Brain brings “Concussion,” starring Will Smith, to UF. Presented 
during Traumatic Brain Injury 
Awareness Month and in exten-sion of Brain Awareness Week, the night will kick off with an expert Q&A panel featuring 
leaders in concussion health 
care and research at UF at 7:30 p.m. Friday. The free pizza and prizes will roll out at 7 p.m. 
Arrive early, seats are limited!
Gay Movie Night — ‘Capital 
Games’
On Friday at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Pride Community Center, lo-
cated at 3131 NW 13th St., come see “Capital Games” with the Pride Community Center 
of North Central Florida. Take 
two ambitious men, one top Los Angeles advertising firm and add a competition for the same high-ranking job. A tough ex-Los 
Angeles Police Department cop, 
Steve Miller quit police work for the calm environment of a busi-ness office. Mark Richfield, the 
glamorous new kid in the office, 
soon wins favor with the big boss and co-workers, causing Steve to cringe in jealousy. After a crazy night in the Santa Fe 
desert, Steve becomes torn be-
tween passionate love and pas-sionate hatred. Steve and Mark endure agonizing decisions that 
will affect their lives forever. 
Gay Movie Night is a free ser-vice of the PCCNCF. A $2 dona-tion is requested to cover the cost of snacks.
Multifaith Music Fest
On Saturday, the UF Interfaith Ambassadors will be hosting the 
inaugural Multifaith Music Fest, 
showcasing the diverse artistry of faith and non-faith based groups in Gainesville. UF stu-dents and Gainesville nonprofit 
organizations are cordially in-
vited to attend. Performances will take place on Flavet Field at 6 p.m., and free food and water will be provided. The Multifaith Music Fest is the perfect way 
to spend a unique Easter week-
end by listening to a variety of performers from all walks of religious and non-religious 
life. For event inquiries, please 
email Adam Gerstenfeld at in-terfaithuf@gmail.com.
County Library closed for Easter
Alachua County Library District 
will be closed for Easter all day 
Sunday. All branches will be closed. All book drops and on-line services including eBook checkouts at aclib.us will be 
available. All 12 library loca-
tions and both bookmobiles in Alachua County will resume their regular schedules on 
Monday, March 28. For more in-
formation, visit aclib.us or con-tact Nickie Kortus, nkortus@aclib.us, or 352-334-3909.
"Take Back the Night March and 
Rally to End Sexual Violence
Join STRIVE as we Take Back 
the Night to demonstrate our support for sexual violence sur-vivors, share our stories and 
create a culture of care. The 
event will take place April 6 at 6 p.m. on the Plaza of Americas. It involves a 1-mile march around campus that ends with 
an open mic. We will have a 
keynote speaker, resources for survivors, free T-shirts, food and amazing performers! 
Learn more at facebook.com/
events/966985553378128/.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep 
them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press 
releases will not appear in the 
paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 122
HIGH  66° LOW  37°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Brittany Spino
Alligator Contributing Writer
Seven days of discounted chicken 
wings: There’s an app for that.
Wing Week Madness starts today 
and runs through Sunday, allow-
ing members of the Gift Certiﬁ  cates 
and More app to buy $5 wings at 10 
Gainesville restaurants.
Customers will save about $3 to 
$5 by opening the app when order-ing, said Edward Lavagnino, the sales director of the app. The coupon can be used once a day at every lo-cation.
“Save money and enjoy it,” he 
said. “Watch basketball.”
Next month’s promotion is for $5 
pulled pork sandwiches, Lavagnino said.
Sal Mollica, an owner of Chomps 
Sports Grill, said he scheduled more staff and ordered extra wings to pre-pare.
“We’re excited to be a part of it,” 
he said. “We hope everyone that comes out has a wonderful time.”Brooke McMillion, a 22-year-old 
UF plant science senior, said she plans to download the app.
“I’ll have to grab some wings in 
between classes,” she said. “It’s a great deal, and it’s cool that some of the locations are super close to cam-pus.”
Candace Aho, a manager at the 
TGI Friday’s on Archer Road, said hundreds of customers took advan-tage of a burger promotion last year.
“We expect a lot of people,” she 
said. “We’re ready for everyone.”  Wing Week Madness: App oﬀ  ering wing deals around GNV
RIGHT:
An artist known as larry d ro-
salaz, 27, center, performs in his art installation “Looked at bodies in a room” at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Saturday.
FAR RIGHT:
DeAnna Wright, 33, performs during an art installation called “Looked at bodies in a room” at the Samuel P . Harn Museum of Art on Saturday.
Photos by Justin T ompkins / Alligator
PARTICIPATING RESTAURANTS
 Chomps Sports Grill
 Buffalo Wild Wings
 Gators Den Sports Grill
 Piesanos Stone Fired Pizza
 TGI Friday’s
 Beef ‘O’ Brady’s
 The Crafty Bastards Restaurant & Pub
 Wahoo Seafood Grill
 Napolatanos Restaurant
 The Thirsty GatorCustomers will save about $3 to $5
ART THROUGH ACTION
UF dance students Caitlin Pilette, 22, Amanda Stambrosky, 21, and UF theatre junior Andrew Qui-mby, 21, dance together during the Harn Museum of Dance event  on Saturday. The event featured performances by 70 dancers and choreographers from the UF School of Theatre + Dance. 4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
um,” he said. “Wonderful. I didn’t know 
how much genocide happened here. A lot 
of natives here; not a lot now. Where’d they go, Barrett?” 
He also joked about the number of 
scooters on UF’s campus during his act.
“If I have one note for this school: cool 
it with the f-----g Vespas,” he said.
Hundreds of students watched Khaled 
on Snapchat from the Rion Ballroom, 
where he was supposed to begin at 11 p.m. An hour later he took the stage. 
The famous Snapchatter filmed his fans 
reacting to his mixing and his inspirational messages he has become known for. Fans 
waved paper cutouts of keys and signs with phrases from Khaled’s Snapchats, in-
cluding “They.” 
“He took pictures of a lot of students, 
which I’m sure made a lot of them happy,” Ciarmataro said.
UF exploratory freshman Alison Wil-
fong said she thought students walked 
away with Khaled’s positive outlook.“The more you listen to him, you re-
alize he has a very optimistic attitude,” she said. “I think that’s why he relates to 
young people so well.”
Khaled offered advice to students in be-
tween playing songs from his label.
“You are already on the right path be-
cause you’re in school,” he said to the au-
dience. “You are the new young kings and 
queens of the world.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgFESTIVAL,  from pg 1DJ Khaled began performing an hour late
ing to residency programs together. 
“We joked about it even before we start-
ed dating,” Maerz said. 
After Maerz completes his five years of 
general surgery training at Penn State, he 
will go into the Air Force as a surgeon. Li said her residency program will last four years. 
Maerz said he was relieved when he 
found out he would be with Li. He said 
they applied to institutions up to two hours 
away from each other. Both Li and Maerz said they were worried there was a chance they would be placed far apart. 
“It’s always in the back of your mind,” 
said Li. “We were optimistic.” 
Li said she was excited to go to Penn 
State because of their obstetrics and gyne-cology program. 
“It was a good fit for the both of us,” 
Li said.  
“Despite a cold fit,” Maerz said, of the 
weather. 
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgMATCH,  from pg 1125 students opened envelopes
Courtesy to the Alligator
Porter Maerz, left, and Linda Li will be moving to Pennsylvania together to complete 
their residencies as part of the UF College of Medicine’s master’s program. On Friday, the 125 students in the program opened white envelopes announcing where they will specialize in their areas of medicine.
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
DJ Khaled performs at the Reitz Union as part of the Reitz Union Board Entertainment’s Big Orange Festival on Friday night.
CRIME
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police Department announced 
Friday that burglaries are 50 percent higher 
compared to the same time last year.
Since January, 280 burglaries have oc-
curred, according to a press release.
Investigators found a trend in juveniles 
stealing from unlocked houses and cars and later selling the goods for drug money, ac-cording to the release.
On Saturday at about 4:25 a.m., Nicho-
las Wienclaw, 23, pulled on the driver’s side door handle of the car of a Ridgemar Com-mons resident, who watched from his apart-ment window, according to a police report.
Out of the 59 reported vehicle burglaries 
reported between Feb. 16 and March 15, 70 percent of the cars were unlocked, according 
to the release.
Northwood Pines is among the most im-
pacted neighborhoods, according to the re-
lease. GPD’s Traffic Safety Team responded by pulling over residents and giving them fli-ers on residential and vehicle security.
Police also received new patrol areas, and 
GPD is offering rewards for information lead-ing to an arrest or prosecution, according to the release.
“We can’t patrol every inch of the city at 
once,” GPD spokesman Officer Ben Tobias 
wrote in an email. “We have to reach out 
to our residents who serve as our extra eyes and ears in the community.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgGainesville 
sees increase in burglaries this semester
WHERE UF STUDENTS 
ARE COMPLETING 
THEIR RESIDENCIES: 
• Louisiana State University 
Baton Rouge Program
• University of North Carolina Hospitals Program
• University of Virginia Program
• Georgetown University Hospital Program
• University of California San Francisco ProgramBy Renee Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
Families made butter and drank bottled 
milk when Family Day at the Dairy Farm 
returned Saturday.
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultur-
al Sciences showed families what cows eat, the milking process and production of milk in Hague, Florida, which is about 
11 miles north of Gainesville.  IFAS put 
on the event in 2012 and 2013 but hasn’t held it in recent years. In 2014, it was rained out, said Albert De Vries, an as-sociate professor in UF’s Department of 
Animal Sciences.
About 1,000 people walked through 
the barn, which houses about 500 milk-
ing cows, he said. They then took a self-
guided tour and stopped at 17 stations to 
learn about milk’s creation.
Staff members gave families educa-
tional booklets and dairy products, such as yogurt, cheese and milk.
“It is a good opportunity for people to 
come out here and see how a commercial dairy farm works,” De Vries said.
He said people also pet calves, which 
are baby cows, and asked questions about the industry and milk-making process. Children climbed onto equipment and honked the horn of a tractor.
“We like to show people what we do,” De Vries said. “There is no secret to ag-
riculture. We think it’s important that 
people see how their milk is produced.”
Katie Waldrep, of Ocala, Florida, 
dressed her 3-year-old daughter and 
5-year-old son in overalls and boots for 
the farm. They walked on the hour-and-a-half-long tour and talked to UF staff mem-
bers and volunteers.
“It’s a great experience,” Waldrep 
said. “Every station was geared towards 
the children, and the speakers definitely try to explain it on their level so they can 
understand.”MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
ABOUT $2.4 MILLION 
WAS DONATED.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Kalee Eichelberger was a miracle child.
In 2010, she was diagnosed with a systemi-
cally overactive immune condition, in which 
her immune system attacks her organs.
On Saturday, the now-21-year-old UF nu-
tritional science junior participated with more 
than 1,000 others at the 22nd annual Dance Marathon.
“I’ve kind of gotten to know Dance Mara-
thon from the inside out,” she said.
In the last of the 26.2 hours of DM, the 
crowd cheered as participants revealed they raised $2,434,315.18 at 3 p.m. Sunday. For 
the event, UF teams danced to raise money 
for children with illnesses, called miracle chil-dren, through the Children’s Miracle Network.
Armani Abreu, an overall director of DM, 
said he enjoyed seeing the families of the mir-
acle children.
“Seeing their faces, seeing their reactions, 
it’s just a rewarding feeling,” the 21-year-old 
UF political science senior said.
Abreu said more than 70 miracle families 
attended the event and met with the students, 
who helped raise money.
Barbie Diaz, a former miracle child and a 
Spanish and neurobiological sciences senior, 
attended with Eichelberger.
Diaz said she grew up healthy. But at 18, 
she suffered from a stroke, which resulted in a car crash.
Since then, her life has been riddled with 
medication, chemotherapy and hospital 
rooms.
“My goal is to make sure that the kids 
know that there’s still hope,” the now-23-year-
old said. “I got my second chance. They’ll get 
their second chance.”
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.orgDance 
Marathon: 
former miracle 
kids participate
MONEY RAISED 
THROUGH THE YEARS
• 2009: $413,562.34
• 2010: $517,260.79
• 2011: $713,053.68
• 2012: $886,726.15
• 2013: $1,169,722.16
• 2014: $1,528,330
• 2015: $2,015,307.17
• 2016: $2,434,315.18HALAL IS FOOD PREPARED 
FOLLOWING ISLAMIC LAW 
REQUIREMENTS.
By Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
More residents have bought KFC since 
its Gainesville locations began to offer ha-
lal meat.
The national chain started selling halal 
options in certain restaurants about four months ago, said Jannatun Nessa, a shift supervisor at the Archer Road location.
Nessa said KFC chicken that includes 
bones is halal, but the boneless tenders are not.“We have gained some customers from 
it,” she said.
Mehvish Quraishy, a 25-year-old UF 
second-year pharmacy graduate student, 
said she didn’t know about the change 
until recently.
Halal means “permitted” or “lawful” 
in Arabic, and only certain food meets the 
requirements of Islamic law.  
For meat to be considered halal, the 
slaughtering process must be quick, caus-
ing the least amount of pain, Quraishy said.
A prayer is recited during the process, 
she said, and the meat must be clean and safe to eat.
Quraishy said she was raised to eat 
halal meat in a religiously conservative family.
“Halal meat is to Muslims as Kosher 
meat is to Jews,” she said.
Only a handful of restaurants offer ha-
lal options in Gainesville, most being sit-down restaurants, Quraishy said.
“Fast food is always convenient, espe-
cially when you are on the go,” she said.KFC offers halal chicken, gains customers
KFC LOCATIONS:
• 330 Newell Drive
• 1231 E. University Ave.
• 3750 NW 13th St.
• 3525 SW Archer RoadRenee Wilson / Alligator
UF animal science graduate student Carolina Collazos, 22, shows 6-year-old Wes-
ley how an automatic cow milker works at the UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences’ Family Day at the Dairy Farm. Collazos and other staff members taught the public about milk production and the industry.
CAMPUS
Local families experience life on the farm
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Police arrested a Gainesville 
man early Friday morning af-
ter they said he shot his gun 
at a moving car.
At about 7 p.m. Friday, 
Jharen Anthony Sneed, 26, 
pointed a gun at two people on Southeast 25th Terrace, ac-cording to a police report. 
He then stepped into his 
Hyundai and drove away.The two people followed 
Sneed in their car, hoping to record his license plate, ac-
cording to the report.
Sneed later noticed the car 
and fired the gun at his rear 
windshield, sending several 
bullets toward the other car, 
according to the report.
His followers then stopped 
in the 2200 block of NW Eighth Ave. after spotting a police of-
ficer, according to the report. 
Their car had a bullet hole 
in the windshield.WIth a description of 
Sneed’s car and a few numbers from his license plate, police 
tracked the 
car to its reg-
istered ad-dress, where 
his mother 
lives.
After po-
lice arrived, 
they noticed 
Sneed leaving in a white Jeep, 
according to the report. 
Sneed was arrested, and 
witnesses later identified him 
in a photo lineup.The Hyundai with its shat-
tered windshield was found in the backyard, and the gun was 
discovered inside, according to the report.
Police arrested Sneed on 
two charges of attempted mur-
der and took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press time, he remains in lieu of a $300,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgPolice: Man arrested for attempted murder
He has a $300,000 bond
Sneed
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The curious case 
of Benjamin 
(Button) Carson
A little more than a week ago, the country stood in awe 
as former Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson rose from the dead — or at least partially awoke from his constant state of slumber — to endorse Mein Drumpf as the Republican nominee. While some are caught up 
in whether this is a Chris Christie-like attempt at securing a vice presidency or cabinet position, we at the Alligator have taken this opportunity to look back critically at Carson’s campaign. Af-ter intensive study and research, we’ve conclusively diagnosed him with the Benjamin Carson disease.
Recalling the condition showcased in F. Scott Fitzgerald’s 
“The Curious Case of Benjamin Button,” in which one is born old and grows aesthetically younger with growing age, we’ve characterized the Benjamin Carson disease as a case in which 
one is born with promise and intelligence but makes progres-
sively dim-witted remarks with rising fame and political inﬂ  u-ence. 
Before recent years, Carson’s story was one exclusively of ad-
mirable success. From a rough Detroit neighborhood, he worked his way into Ivy League schools and eventually established him-self as a world-renowned neurosurgeon, best recognized for his role in the ﬁ  rst-ever successful separation of twins conjoined at the head. Carson’s success became an inspiration for the 
African-American community. It’s the quintessential American 
story: a rise from the bottom up. So, in terms of our Alligator diagnosis of the Benjamin Carson disease: born with intelligence and promise? Check.
How, then, did we go from Carson’s brilliance to his cam-
paign’s great political car wreck? Well, his strong religious faith and history as a Seventh-day Adventist kept his social views rather conservative, evident in his anti-gay-marriage, pro-life, anti-evolution and pro-creationist stances. And while the world 
may never know why he dove into politics after his retirement 
from medical practice, once he joined Fox News as a contributor in 2013 and gained signiﬁ  cant public attention for his compari-son of the Affordable Care Act to slavery, it soon became clear he’d stretch out his political fortune as far as possible.
So given Carson’s complete lack of governing experience and 
already conservative presence, his best bet for this 2016 cam-paign was to run solely on rhetoric tailored to sects of GOP vot-ers.
Without fail, he resorted to Islamophobia, telling MSNBC in 
September 2015, “I would not advocate that we put a Muslim in charge with this nation. I absolutely would not agree with that.” (Wait, don’t we already have a Kenyan, Muslim, communist, lame-duck dictator as president already?) Then he pronounced his ﬁ  rm defense of the Second Amendment when referring to the Roseburg, Oregon, shooting in October by claiming, “I would not just stand there and let him (the gunman) shoot me.” Dim-witted remarks with rising fame and political inﬂ  uence? Check.
This is not the ﬁ  rst case of the Benjamin Carson disease 
we’ve seen, and it most certainly won’t be the last. For all of you pre-meds out there, watch out: You’re already on track to catching this illness. Be especially wary of basing your world-view exclusively on Seventh-day Adventist principles, and be even more especially wary of pandering to ignorant views held by certain GOP voters. Else you may fall victim to the Benja-min Carson disease, for which the only known cure is to hire a professional neurosurgeon to separate you from the amalgam of 
yourself you’ve created … Please clap.Casual sex is not self-discovery or empowerment
“There is no sexual relation.”
— Jacques Lacan
What has Beyonce done for me? 
How has Beyonce, as they say, “em-powered” me?
Who’s a better feminist: Beyonce or Hillary 
Clinton? Hillary’s advocated for paid family leave, a childcare tax credit and universal prekindergar-ten. She’s advocated for federal funding for abor-tions for low-income women and rape victims. As secretary of state, she shined a powerful light on the poverty, exclusion and violence faced by the world’s most vulnerable women. She created the Ofﬁ  ce of Global Women’s Issues. Beyonce sells the dream of a post-racial 
America led by a “ﬁ  erce” “queen.”
We postmodernists can only accept a feminism of sex. Be-
cause transsexual rights activists have pushed for a more in-
clusive deﬁ  nition of womanhood, even having a uterus and vagina are no longer necessary. Consequently, everything speciﬁ  c to the female body — even pregnancy, childbirth and childrearing — is less important than issues of identity. The female body doesn’t matter anymore, unless it’s f-----g.
And so third-wave feminism becomes last-wave femi-
nism, part of an insidious obsession with the revelatory, re-demptive power of sex.
A man once told me, “It’s important to be yourself when 
you have sex.” That’s presumptuous on more levels than the obvious one. Indeed, I think sex is about the last time I’m myself. I think I’ve got a better chance of being myself when I go to buy cereal. Yet for young girls like myself — afraid of womanhood, alarmed and allured by manhood — sex is about all we’ve got. At the Panera Bread on Archer Road, 
squeezed into a booth eating extra rolls and scanning the cal-
orie counts, gabbing about the 30-year-old from Tinder that came on our friend’s chest and wouldn’t use condoms and loved Third Eye Blind, some journalism students exclaimed: “We’re like Sex and the City!”
This is a new type of girl. She watches “Broad City” and 
“Girls” and dreams of Brooklyn. She reads Tumblr and buys MAC lipstick. She smokes weed and drinks whiskey. She’s into rough sex and “butt stuff” and giving good head. Men don’t matter: She does. Supposedly.
In his essay “Afternoon of the Sex Children,” 
Mark Greif wrote, “at the deepest level, one says: ‘Whom do I discover myself to be in sex?’—so 
that sex becomes the social province of self-dis-
covery.” But this fetish for self-discovery turns sex into an antisocial, ultimately narcissistic act; with love sapped of love, we can only love our-selves.
In his essay “Back In New Fire,” David Fos-
ter Wallace wrote, “Any animal can f—-. But only humans can experience sexual passion…This has been what’s ‘bad’ about casual sex from the beginning: sex is never bad, but 
it’s also never casual.”
Wallace had his hang-ups, and I have mine. I suspect the 
amount of time a person thinks about sex is inversely propor-
tional to the amount of time she spends having it.
And in that spirit, I reﬂ  ect from my nine square meters of 
France. A friend once told me sex was so boring she checked the time on her iPhone during it. For many of us, sex was a bomb that didn’t go off. Nothing is ever as good as it might have been. Casual sex has been a non-event, a zero, a skip-
ping on the tape, the least intimate of all acts, less intimate 
than getting coffee. I may as well have not been in the room.
If anything, we’re ourselves before and after: ﬁ  shing for 
fabric in an unmade bed, hesitantly asking where the bath-room is, watching the washed-up, washed-out sunrise play on strange skin. I thought I should remember everything, every time and wanted to remember nothing. Lessons, here, mean a succession of losses. You aren’t yourself until you weren’t.
In the unpeopled, frictionless, ventilated whiteness of the 
future, events replace ideology: travel, sex, “experiences.” To cry for more from sex is verboten; to cry at all is sacrilege. Simultaneously — sadly — sex must be without meaning and our only meaning. Running on empty and running off-track, it’s all we’ve got.
Ann Manov is a UF French, English and Spanish senior. 
Her column appears on Mondays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Ann Manov
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
According to its website, 
Accent Speakers Bureau, the Student Government group that brings speak-ers to campus, “strives 
to bring controversial and inﬂ  u-ential speakers to the university, with the intent of further educat-ing the student body, outside of the classroom, on current hot top-ics and controversies.” If this is the group’s mission statement, Accent is clearly not do-ing its job.
The group just announced it’s bringing 
Trevor Noah, comedian and host of “The Daily Show,” to campus. While I agree Noah is very talented and a superior comic, I am extremely disappointed with the selection.
From Fall 2012 to present day, I can’t 
think of a single conservative speaker Ac-cent brought to campus. Not one. Sure, some will say Ray Kelly, the former NYPD chief recently brought in with Al Sharpton, is conservative. But I wouldn’t bestow that title on someone who supports gun control.
How about Ron Paul a few years back? 
Well, Ron Paul is Ron Paul. Libertarian per-haps. I won’t get into an ideological debate, but a “conservative,” at least in the main-stream sense, Paul is not.  
But for argument’s sake, let’s say they 
are both conservative. Fine. That’s two con-servatives Accent brought to campus during my time at UF.
How many liberals did Accent bring? 
Well, signiﬁ  cantly more than two.  
They are: left-leaning activist Al Sharp-
ton; Democratic Congressman John Lewis; James Obergefell, the lead plaintiff of the Supreme Court case that legalized gay mar-riage; former Democratic President Jim-my Carter; liberal Jay Carney, President Obama’s former press secretary; liberal ac-tor George Takei; Neil deGrasse Tyson, who made fun of George W. Bush in his Accent speech; the rapper and Obama-supporter Common; Bill Nye, who criticizes the right often; Obama’s former national security ad-viser Tom Donilon; and Obama’s Housing and Urban Development Secretary, Julian Castro. The list could go on if I consider speakers who support Democrats, like poet Maya Angelou and actress Robin Wright, but this column has a word count.And the list now includes lib-
eral comic Trevor Noah, who makes fun of conservatives on a nightly basis.
So, we have two “conserva-
tives,” even though I wouldn’t categorize them as such, and a lot more liberals — like, a lot.
I fail to see how this is fair. I 
fail to see how bringing speak-
ers of the same ideological bent “further (educates) the student body, outside of the classroom, on current hot topics and con-troversies.”  
Surely Accent can bring a right-winger 
to campus. Didn’t they read my column last semester about brining Ann Coulter to campus? That did a lot. How about bringing Megyn Kelly or Bill O’Reilly? Come on, now.  
Not only does Accent bring only liberals 
to UF, but they also waste too much money on speakers who don’t educate students on any worthwhile topics.
James Franco, who stars in movies I 
won’t pay $10 to see in theaters, was paid $85,000 to speak at UF. Yes, kids, we are taking out loans and going into debt so James Franco, a C-rated actor, faux intel-lectual and perpetual stoner, can speak on campus. He’s deﬁ  nitely educating the Stu-dent Body.         
How about Paul Rudd? He, alongside a 
writer for The New York Times — the “old, gray lady” of conservative print journalism — was paid $90,000. I’m sure both talked at great lengths about topics really, really im-portant to our community, school and lives. I bet we are all better for it.
Accent doesn’t bring conservative speak-
ers to campus. And, to channel some of The Donald, Accent makes horrible deals.  
For these reasons, I demand Accent gives 
me my money back. I will not allow them to use my money in such an ideologically lopsided, unfair and wasteful way.
The lack of diversity brought to this cam-
pus is truly outrageous and completely em-barrassing. Accent, a group responsible for bringing intellectual diversity to campus, should act without such a liberal accent.
I doubt it will. Its history speaks vol-
umes. Until then, I demand my money back.
Michael Beato is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Mondays.
Accent needs to do its job  Column
The liberal media made 
up its mind a long time ago: Former Secretary of 
State Hillary Clinton will 
be the Democratic nomi-
nee. While former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley’s candidacy was 
laughable from the beginning, 
support for Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., has increased steadily. His legitimacy has increased with time. While he will never have the kind of name rec-
ognition Clinton has, Sanders’ support has 
grown from ﬁ  ve-person crowds to sold-out auditoriums. Yet, this means nothing to the liberal establishment.
This past week, the tip of the iceberg 
came when The New York Times edited a story that was posted on their website. The original story was about how Sanders managed to score victories while being an 
Independent. At this point, many support-
ers shared the article. But a few hours later, the article was edited with no indication it had been changed, and more negative para-
graphs had been added. While the editors of 
the story claimed the changes added “nu-ance and depth,” it was downright deceptive to readers and to those who shared it on so-cial media, to those not anticipating it would 
be edited into a more negative article than it 
was originally.
According to the article, Sanders collabo-
rated with Republicans numerous times to 
“prevent foreign workers from replacing 
Americans at banks that have had a federal bailout” and to “expand veterans’ access to health care.” In spite of his ability to col-laborate, Sanders is painted as the candidate 
so far left he is unable to compromise and, 
thus, unable to accomplish anything.
While Clinton’s victories are treated as 
obvious and “hard-earned,” Sanders does 
not get the same treatment. Sanders suppos-
edly wins the states he wins because they are close to his home state, because they are very white or because they are an odd-ity. Clinton wins states because she has the 
better ideas and appeals to the voters. Even 
when it’s a close race, she wins because she deserves to. The existence of superdelegates sways the press in her favor, too, because 
the delegate counts on networks like CNN and MSNBC always include super-
delegates, even though they can change their mind before the July 
convention and are not necessar-
ily “earned.” Sanders is treated like a blip on Clinton’s radar, just there to annoy her on the path to 
inauguration. In the process, she 
has discounted his accomplish-ments and made it seem like he 
would damage President Obama’s legacy.
Just last week, Clinton asked where 
Sanders was in 1993 and 1994 when she was attempting to push through a single-payer health care system. Not only was Sanders standing right behind Clinton when she 
spoke at Dartmouth on health care reform, 
she sent him a card in 1993 that read, “To Bernie Sanders with thanks for your commit-ment to real health care access for all Ameri-cans and best wishes.” Single payer health-
care has always been on Sanders’ agenda.
Clinton said in a debate, “If it’s Medicare 
for all, then you no longer have the Afford-
able Care Act.” As she disregards Sanders’ 
accomplishments, the media is buying into 
it.
While that’s true, it’s misleading. While 
she made it seem like the end of health care reform, it would actually bring us to a system through which everyone is covered. Despite Obamacare’s accomplishments, it hasn’t 
been able to do that. The way the liberal 
media treats Sanders has allowed Clinton to become lazy in her attacks because the media does the work for her. All the while, Sanders and the American people suffer the consequences. Does this sound right to you?
Nicole Dan is a UF political science soph-
omore. Her column appears on Mondays.Media still treats Sanders terriblyColumn
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Beato
opinions@alligator.org
“Sanders is treated 
like a blip on Clinton's 
radar, just there to 
annoy her on the path 
to inauguration.”MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
Gainesville Raceway host-
ed the 47th annual Ama-lie Motor Oil National Hot 
Rod Association Gatorna-
tionals drag racing week-
end. On Saturday, qualifying ses-sions were held for the Nitro- and 
Pro Stock-class cars and motor-
cycles. More than 300 vehicles en-tered across the 13 racing classes during the four-day event.
TOP RIGHT:
Angie Smith, right, races down 
the track during the 2016 Ga-tornationals. The Pro Stock Motorcycle reached speeds up to 192 mph during the qualify-ing session on Saturday. 
BOTTOM RIGHT: 
James Underdahl races down the track at Gatornationals on Saturday. The Pro Stock Mo-torcycle reached speeds up to 197 mph during the qualifying session. 
BELOW: 
Ron Capps, driving the NAPA Auto Parts Charger, takes off at the starting line at the 2016 Gatornationals on Saturday. The Funny Car reached speeds up to 321 mph during the quali-fying session.
Photos by Scott Parker / Alligator
BURNIN’ RUBBER
Kevin Fiscus, driving a 2012 Mustang, takes off from the starting line. 
The Pro Modified car reached speeds up to 246 mph.
Pictured is a 2016 Pro Modified Corvette by Al-Anabi Racing. Pictured is a nitromethane engine from a T op Fuel car.MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo
2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   4-20-15-72-2"MR CHEAP ROOM"
is back in service. For economical luxury, call 
Rob 375-8606. Near Campus & only $180/mo.    
3-24-10-2
Houses For Rent close to UF
3/2, excellent condition, fenced backyards, 
pets welcome
$1200 per mo to $1350 per mo.
611 NW 36th Terr, 630 NW 34th Terr
Call Mike -352-665-7316 or
email oranskym@gmail.com
3-25-16-10-2
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-23-16-5-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
For Sale: Condo 1BR/1BA - 705sq.ft. Bike to UF or ride bus
Call or Text 352-234-3018     3-21-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Sunrise Auto SalesBring your W2 anddrive home today!!NO credit check!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!Bring your W2 and drive home today!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     4-20-16-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatest
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
Assistant Production Manager
The Independent Florida Alligator,
the largest student run newspaper in the
country, is seeking to hire someone for the
position of Assistant Production Manager.
This position is responsible for:
● supervising the nightly activity of the    production department● working in coordination with newsroom staff 
● responsible for meeting 1:00 a.m. deadline
   for submissions to printer.
Candidate must be extremely knowledge-
able in, and be able to train others to use the following:● Adobe InDesign● Adobe Illustrator● Adobe Photoshop● Stock Image Sites
Responsibilities also include:
● Hiring● Firing● Training employees● Maintaining balance between career staff    and editorial staff
Work hours are 5:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m., 
Sunday through Thursday.
Fridays and Saturdays off.
Great work atmosphere.
Modest salary.
Email cover letter and resume to
tcarey@alligator.org
to be considered for an interview.
No phone calls please. EOE.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
ewalker@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.
Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 3/21-3/24 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      3-21-5-20
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21DOMINO'S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
Local small business is seeking a market-
ing intern to help grow the business. Must be well-organized, proficient with website design and social media analytics. Help de-sign a data-based review system to drive improvements. Great part-time work for a student. Please send CV to punchkin23@hotmail.com.    3-25-16-10-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
F/T office receptionist wanted. Starting not less than $11 per hour. Legal experience not required. Seeking an energetic person for the front desk that can communicate well with clients. We want this person to be a great first impression for our office. Computer skills helpful, but nothing high end required. Call 352-371-4000     4-1-14-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches hiring part-time deli help/closer and day availability.Apply at 2327 NW 13th St location. Must have reliable transportation.    3-24-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 20 Event Notices 23 RidesHeadline
Story description Pg#
Kelsey Stewart and the Florida 
softball team swept T ennessee on Sunday.Read the story on pg. 15.By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
Entering Sunday, Buddy Reed was 
slumping at the plate. 
In three games during the week, he 
was 2-for-12, one of those hits being a bunt single, with five strikeouts.
He broke out of his slump in a big way 
against Missouri on Sunday as he tied his career-high in hits, going 3-for-4 with a two-run home run. His resurgence helped  the No. 1 Gators complete their opening Southeastern Conference series with a sweep of the Tigers, 7-5. 
Florida has won 15 in a row and its 21-1 
record is the best 22-game start for a Flor-ida team under coach Kevin O’Sullivan.
The three hits were a welcomed sign 
for Reed, who hasn’t been able to get go-ing at the plate since he hurt his shoulder diving for a ball during the Gators’ series against Harvard. 
“I know guys are going to pick me up, 
even when I’m not doing good," Reed 
said. "And when I’m doing good, I’m go-
ing to have to pick other guys up."
The junior center fielder picked up 
the team and starting pitcher Alex Faedo early. 
In the bottom of the first inning, Reed 
cranked an Austin Tribby fastball over the 
left-field fence to give the Gators a quick 
2-0 lead. 
“I just wanted to put a good swing on 
it and not do too much and it went over 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF to compete at Briar's Creek Invitational
The Florida women's golf team has won two straight tournaments heading 
into Briar's Creek and claimed the tournament title in the same competition last season. Read the story online at alligator.org/sports.UF WILL PLAY IN THE 
QUARTERFINAL ROUND OF THE 
TOURNAMENT ON WEDNESDAY.
By Alex Maminakis
Sports Writer
No Egbunu, no problem.
Freshman Kevarrius Hayes stepped 
into the starting lineup on Sunday against 
Ohio State for John Egbunu, who had 
hand surgery on Thursday, and played the best game of his young career. 
Florida’s impressive performance 
crashing the boards on both ends of the 
floor made up for Egbunu’s absence in the 
paint.
The No. 2-seed Gators defeated third-
seeded Ohio State 74-66 — Florida’s first win ever in Columbus, Ohio — to advance 
to the quarterfinals of the National Invita-
tion Tournament. 
It was the first postseason meeting be-
tween the Gators and the Buckeyes since 
the 2007 National Championship Game.In Hayes’ fifth career start, the fresh-
man from Live Oak never missed a shot — a perfect 5-of-5 from the field and 4-of-
4 from the free-throw line for a career-high 14 points in a career-high 28 minutes played.“Kevarrius is a guy who hasn’t been 
given a lot of opportunity, playing behind John Egbunu, and boy did he take advan-
tage,” Florida coach Mike White said. 
“Moving forward, this should help Ke-
varrius. Very proud of his performance.”
At halftime, Florida’s lead was cut to 
31-30 after opening the game with a 16-4 advantage. 
The Gators suffered a 3:15 scoring 
drought to end the first half while the Florida advances to third round of NIT with win over Ohio State
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 14Reed powers Gators to weekend sweep  
It was UF's conference opener
GYMNASTICS
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
For the past two years, despite winning the 
national title each season, Florida had fallen 
short to Alabama in the Southeastern Confer-ence Championships by the slimmest of mar-gins.
On Saturday night, the Gators flipped the 
script.
Florida won its 10th SEC title and its first 
since 2013, edging out second-place Alabama 
197.775-197.750 in North Little Rock, Arkan-
sas, for what equalled the slimmest margin of victory in SEC Championship history. 
“It was a moment I will cherish forever, for 
the rest of my life,” an emotional coach Jenny Rowland said. “I’m so incredibly proud of this team. They have fought through adversity and have done anything and everything the coach-
ing staff has asked them to do. I couldn’t be 
more proud of them.”
Needing a 9.850 or better to win, senior 
Bridgette Caquatto stepped on floor for the fi-nal routine of the night.
Caquatto, who in a similar situation scored 
a 9.950 on floor to earn Florida a share of the 2014 national title, battled with herself dur-ing the routine, fighting to stay in bounds on one tumbling pass and willing her legs to stay down on another.
Nearly 10 agonizing minutes passed after 
the senior had finished, her routine was given a 9.875, just enough to give the Gators, who erupted in cheers, their first title under Row-land.
The moment was clearly not lost on the 
first-year coach, who held back tears after the meet.
“Why is this moment emotional for me?” 
Rowland said. “First-time head coach, first-
time SEC win and first time that I am able UF wins first 
SEC title 
since 2013
SEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 14
SEE GYM,  PAGE 14Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Buddy Reed swings at a pitch during Florida's 7-5 win over Missouri on Sunday at McKethan Stadium. 
"Kevarrius is a guy who hasn't been 
given a lot of opportunity, playing 
behind John Egbunu, and boy did he 
take advantage."
Mike White
UF men's basketball coachBuckeyes finished the half on a 9-0 run. 
But Hayes scored the first two buckets of the second half to spark a 14-2 Gators 
scoring run. 
Florida didn’t look back, and Ohio 
State never led in the game.
“The way we started was a bit of a sur-
prise,” White said. “We got off to a great 
start, and it was much needed of course 
with the way that the crowd got involved 
and became a factor in the game.”
Dorian Finney-Smith led Florida (21-
14) with 16 points and 12 rebounds, 
marking his eighth double-double of the season.
 Kasey Hill scored 15 points — his 
fourth straight game scoring in double figures — and dished out five assists, while Justin Leon added 12 points, seven 
rebounds and shot 2-of-3 from beyond 
the arc.
Florida’s ability to control the paint 
was a major factor in the win. 
The Gators outscored the Buckeyes 44-
28 in the paint and out-rebounded Ohio State 43-35,  all without Egbunu. Florida also grabbed 16 offensive rebounds — five by Leon — and scored 14 points off of 13 Ohio State turnovers. 
The Buckeyes (21-14) sagged on tran-
sition defense and failed to block out around the rim while the Gators were full of energy from the opening tip.
“It was really emphasizing winning 
the battle on the inside,” Hayes said. 
“Knowing that they have big post 
men, we had to play to our best to fight down there and not let any of the loose balls be given away.”
Florida now advances to Wednesday’s 
NIT quarterfinal to face the winner of tonight’s game between Monmouth and George Washington.
“We continue to improve incremen-
tally offensively,” White said. 
“We would have rather have made 
this improvement a couple months ago, but I’m proud of the fact that we’re still 
fighting and trying to get a little better 
each and every day and taking advantage of this NIT opportunity.”
@alexmaminakis
amaminakis@alligator.org
to be a part of a team of girls that 
are my own that mean the world to me.”
The Gators claimed the lead ear-
ly, scoring a 49.425 on vault to open 
the meet, which gave them a 0.075 
lead over Auburn after the first rota-tion.
They improved upon that on 
bars, scoring a 49.500 — their best event score of the night — to extend the lead to 0.150 over the Crimson Tide after Rotation 2.
Florida maintained that margin over Alabama through the third rotation, despite a fall on beam for senior Bridget Sloan, who had a sub-
par night by her standards.
But Sloan rallied to score a 9.925 
on floor, and the team rallied around 
her to hold onto its lead in the fourth rotation and pull off the win.
“I did not have the best night of 
my life, but my team is incredible,” Sloan said. “They were behind me 100 percent and after I got off the 
beam, they were like, ‘Kill it on 
floor,’ and I was like, ‘You know what, thank you. I’m going to.’”
Sophomore Kennedy Baker won 
the event’s all-around title with a 39.650, which matched her career-best all-around score and was just the third all-around title of her ca-
reer. She also took home a share of 
the SEC vault title.
Sophomore Alex McMurtry, who 
competed all-around for just the third time in her career, finished just behind Baker with a 39.625 while also nabbing the SEC beam title.
Florida will next compete in the 
NCAA Regionals in two weeks.
A television broadcast contribut-
ed to this report.
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
the fence,” Reed said. “... It al-
ways is nice to set the tone of-fensively.” 
He set the tone again in the 
third. 
After Dalton Guthrie struck 
out swinging, Reed laced a sin-gle to center — one of five times he reached base Sunday. Then the Finksburg, Maryland, native used his speed. 
He stole second base and 
moved to third on a wild pitch before Peter Alonso drove him home on an RBI double, giving the Gators a 3-0 lead.
“He’s a playmaker. He can do 
everything,” Faedo said. “They always give me an early lead and he does a good job of that, like usual.”
Faedo used the early run sup-
port to stymie the Tigers’ lineup. At one point, he struck out five hitters in a row and was cruis-ing along. 
Then the sixth inning hap-
pened. Missouri (14-9, 0-3 SEC) tagged Faedo for four runs and climbed back to within one run, 6-5. 
“Give them credit,” Faedo 
said. “I gotta lock in more later in the game, third time around the lineup. They did a good job hitting me.” 
Faedo (5-0) finished his start 
with nine strikeouts, which gave UF’s starters 30 strikeouts on the weekend. 
In total, the Gators’ pitching staff struck out 44 batters during the three games, the most under O’Sullivan in a three-game se-ries. 
“(It) just means we have 
really good arms,” O’Sullivan said. “I think as impressive is we’re not walking guys, either. We’re attacking the strike zone. 
We’re making pitches when we 
need to. You gotta throw the 
ball across the plate to strike people out.”
Missouri tried to claw its way 
back and had a couple of oppor-
tunities to take the lead. 
The Tigers had runners on 
first and second with two down 
in the top of the seventh when 
O’Sullivan called on Dane Dun-
ning. 
Dunning struck out Ryan 
Howard looking on four pitches. 
The next inning, Dunning 
struck out Brian Sharp on a 95-mph fastball with Jake Ring on 
second.  
Dunning, who has been a 
midweek starter for Florida dur-
ing the season, said he wanted 
to come out of the bullpen when 
SEC play started. He made a big impression on O’Sullivan on Sunday. 
“I think what Dane did today, 
boy that’s a huge, huge weapon to have in your back pocket on a Saturday or Sunday,” O’Sullivan said. “If you gotta go to him, 
with that type of arm, that’s 
pretty special.”
@LFTorresIII
ltorres@alligator.org 
BASEBALL,  from pg 13UF's starters struck out 30 
batters over the weekend
GYM,  from pg 13Caquatto's 9.875 floor routine clinched the title
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Bridgette Caquatto performs her floor routine during UF's win over North Carolina on March 
11 in the O'Connell Center. HOOPS,  from pg13Florida scored 14 points off 13 Ohio State turnovers
AP Photo
UF's Kevarrius Hayes (right) gets tangled up with T exas A&M's Tyler Davis during Florida's 72-66 loss to the Aggies in the SEC T ournament on March 11. MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
No. 1 Florida matched its best 
start in school history on Sunday.
With a 3-0 win over Southeast-
ern Conference rival No. 16 Ten-
nessee, the Gators (30-1, 5-1 SEC) 
became the first SEC team to sweep 
the Volunteers (21-8, 3-3 SEC) since UF took three games from them in 2011.
Florida relied heavily on two 
upperclassmen leaders in junior Delanie Gourley from the pitcher’s circle and senior Kelsey Stewart from the batter’s box. 
Gourley tossed a complete-
game, one-hit shutout, while Stew-art went 3-for-3 with two RBIs.
“This conference is so hard, 
and to sweep a team — it’s a great feeling,” Gourley said. “But, you know, our whole team has to con-tribute, and that’s what we did, and it was a great turnout.”
After a pair of scoreless innings, 
Stewart cracked the game open in the third. The senior reached on an infield hit after beating out a bouncing ground ball. 
She then stole second base be-
fore her classmate, senior Kirsti Merritt, moved her over to third with a ground out. Stewart finished 
her trip around the bases by taking 
home plate on a passed ball. 
After going three-up, three-
down in the bottom of the fourth,  Florida’s offense tacked on a pair of insurance runs in the bottom of the fifth driven in by Stewart. 
Nicole DeWitt led off the inning 
with an infield single to the pitcher.
On the next at-bat, Justine McLean’s ground ball to third base caused a bad throw at first base. McLean reached safely on the error and moved DeWitt over to third.
After McLean stole second base, 
Stewart strolled to the plate and ripped a grounder past the glove of the outstretched Tennessee second baseman. Both runners scored, let-ting Florida solidify its 3-0 lead. 
“They’re a very good pitching 
staff,” Stewart said. “They had 
great pitches. I never knew what 
was coming at me. So it was re-ally just keeping your mindset, not thinking what’s coming, and just reacting.”
Stewart had three of the Gators’ 
five hits and has been rolling re-cently. Just this week, she upped her batting average more than 40 
points, from .305 to .347.
“(On Saturday) we talked to 
coach, made little adjustments that 
I needed to do. (It) didn’t matter what pitcher was in today,” Stew-art said. “I had adjustments that I know I needed to make personally for my own swing, and I just did it and it came together.”
Gourley gave up just one hit and 
one walk in seven innings, striking out eight Volunteers in the process and lowering her ERA to 0.86.
“That might be the best I’ve 
seen her against a top-20 team,” coach Tim Walton said. “Really electric rise ball, and a really good curveball location-wise and a good 
offspeed pitch. I thought she did a 
good job.”
The Gators’ pitching staff gave 
up just seven hits to Tennessee over the three-game series. 
“I was excited to throw,” Gour-
ley said. “I haven’t thrown to (Ten-nessee) I think since my freshman 
year. So I was ready.”
That staff will look to lead Flor-
ida to another series win in Baton 
Rouge when the Gators take on 
No. 4 LSU. The series opens with a doubleheader on Friday starting at 5 p.m.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgUF sweeps Tennessee, ties best start in school history
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kelsey Stewart bats during Florida’s doubleheader sweep against Jacksonville on Feb. 17 at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
Ever since its 6-1 defeat at the hands of 
Kentucky’s Mami Adachi and Aldila Sutjiadi 
on March 10, the No. 7 tandem of sopho-
more Brooke Austin and junior Kourtney 
Keegan has been unbeatable.
In two doubles matches since Kentucky, 
Austin and Keegan have cruised through 
dominant performances, winning against 
Vanderbilt’s No. 61 Ellie Yates and Astra Sharma 6-1 and Ole Miss’ No. 27 Arianne Hartono and Mai El Kamash 6-2
And on Sunday, they added to that streak 
by soundly defeating Mississippi State’s No. 34 Madison Harrison and Georgina Patrasc 6-0. 
The victory fueled a solid overall show-
ing by No. 13 Florida (11-2, 6-0 Southeast-ern Conference) against a ranked opponent on the road, as it defeated No. 22 Missis-sippi State (11-5, 2-4 SEC) 4-0 for its sixth-straight win.
“We played another really good match 
from start to finish. We showed real tough-ness again at times today,” coach Roland Thornqvist said in a release. 
“Doubles was once more really good on 
all three courts. We got off to quick starts in singles.”
Florida jumped out to an early lead with 
strong doubles play.
Austin and Keegan got the ball rolling 
with their quick sweep over their Bulldogs opponent.
Soon after, No. 58 sophomore Anna 
Danilina and senior Brianna Morgan got the job done, defeating Anastasia Rentouli and 
Kristina Vozniak 6-1 to earn the doubles 
point for Florida.
Florida kept the intensity in singles play, 
as No. 15 Austin defeated No. 9 Jasmine Lee 6-2, 6-2 to give the Gators a 2-0 lead.
No. 81 Danilina took the first set of her 
match against Vozniak 6-2. 
In the end, the Moscow, Russia, native 
took the victory 6-4 and put the Gators 
within one point of a victory.
The clinching match would come from 
junior Spencer Liang. Facing Jennifer 
Brown, Liang earned the win for Florida, 6-3, 6-3.
“We are playing with a lot of intelligence 
and heart,” Thornqvist said. 
“We showed a lot of toughness even in 
matches where we were not playing great 
and finding ways to get back in the match 
and eventually turn the match around.”
During Florida’s sixth-game winning 
streak, the Gators have faced three top-25 teams, including reigning national cham-
pion Vanderbilt. 
The Gators close out their road trip with 
a visit to Columbia, South Carolina, to take 
on the Gamecocks at the Carolina Tennis 
Center on Saturday at 1 p.m.
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.comGators beat Bulldogs for sixth-straight win, remain undefeated in SEC
Kourtney Keegan / Alligator Staff
UF’s Kourtney Keegan hits the ball during Florida’s 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the 
Ring T ennis Complex. 
The Gators are 30-1 this season16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2016
Look Where You’re Going! Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!
Look Where You’re Going! Don’t Text & Ride!By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
After a series of heartbreaking one-point 
losses on the road against elite non-confer-
ence opponents, the Florida men’s tennis team has hit its stride in Southeastern Confer-ence play.
The No. 24 Gators (9-4, 4-1 SEC) hand-
ily defeated the No. 22 Ole Miss Rebels (7-6, 2-4 SEC) 6-1 on Sunday afternoon at the Ring Tennis Complex, capping a weekend that saw UF win two dual matches by a combined score of 12-2.
Florida has won ﬁ  ve of its past six dual 
matches and is off to its best start in confer-ence play since 2011. 
“We’re starting to see that there’s no holes 
in this team anywhere in doubles or singles,” junior Maxx Lipman said. “Everyone is play-ing extremely well at a high level, and if they continue to do that, there’s no reason that we can’t have a very special year.”
Lipman and his doubles partner Elliott Or-
kin played a big role in setting the tone early for the Gators on Sunday.
After sophomore Chase Perez-Blanco and 
freshman Alfredo Perez defeated the Rebels’ Stefan Lindmark and Gustav Hansson 6-3, Lipman and Orkin clinched the doubles point for UF, knocking off Fabian Fallert and Grey Hamilton 6-4 on Court 2 to give Florida a 1-0 lead.
“Elliott did a great job of playing solid,” 
Lipman said. “We both stayed within our-selves and knew our limits and really made our opponents play a lot of shots.”
The Gators then transitioned over to sin-
gles play, where they received three solid per-formances from their underclassmen.
Perez defeated Fallert 6-3, 6-1, Perez-Blan-
co knocked off Filip Kraljevic 6-1, 6-3 and freshman McClain Kessler won the match-clinching singles point with his 6-4, 6-1 vic-tory over Vinod Gowda.
“It’s just fun to see them that young, be 
able to come out and compete at this level and believe it,” assistant coach Mark Merk-lein said. “They’re helping our older guys too, so yeah, we’re lucky to have them and I feel like they’re only getting better.”
Seniors Diego Hidalgo and Gordon Watson 
were also strong, winning their matches 6-2, 7-6(4) and 2-6, 6-2, 6-0, respectively. In their ﬁ  nal seasons at UF, the two players have been 
on a torrid stretch during which they’ve won 
every singles match they’ve played over the past two weeks. 
“Mentally I’ve been playing a little more 
conﬁ  dent,” Hidalgo said. “So I think that’s been a key factor for my success in these last matches.”
UF hits the road next weekend to take on 
Mississippi State and Alabama. The Gators 
face the Bulldogs on Friday at 5 p.m., fol-
lowed by a battle with the Crimson Tide on Sunday at 2 p.m.
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgUF men’s tennis defeats Ole Miss, sweeps weekend matches
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alfredo Perez returns a serve during Florida’s 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the 
Ring T ennis Complex.
MEN’S GOLF
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
After a runner-up ﬁ  nish in its last 
tournament, the No. 2 Florida men’s 
golf team will tee off today in the opening rounds of the Valspar Col-legiate in Palm City.
The winner of the individual con-
test will earn an exemption to play in the PGA Tour’s Valspar Cham-pionship in 2017, which coach J.C. Deacon said will provide an incen-tive for his team this week. 
“It’s a really nice, little perk for 
the guys, so I know they have a little bit extra motivation,” Deacon said. 
“I know we’re gonna try hard, and 
work hard, and play right, and it’s worked all year long, so I don’t see why it won’t again.” 
The event, held at the 7,114-yard 
Floridian Golf Club, will feature 15 teams. The Gators are one of nine 
teams ranked in the top 20, includ-
ing No. 1 Illinois, No. 4 Texas, No. 8 Clemson and No. 9 Florida State.
Florida is eyeing its second win 
of the Spring season after ﬁ  nish-ing in the top three in consecutive events. 
 The Gators last competed in the 
Valspar during the 2013-14 season, 
ﬁ  nishing second to last in the event 
in what would be former coach Bud-dy Alexander’s ﬁ  nal season with the team. 
Deacon said the team has done 
a great job of managing the expec-tations and frustrations that come with close calls in tournaments. He said his team is keeping the bigger picture in mind.
“I think everyone realizes how 
special of a team we can be,” Dea-con said. “We just gotta keep going out there and take care of business.”
The Gators will play 36 holes in 
Round 1 of the two-day event. Sam Horsﬁ  eld will open up things for the Gators’ ﬁ  ve-man lineup.
“I’ve been hitting it good, so 
hopefully (I) have another good week,” Horsﬁ  eld said. “I kinda just try and go with it. I think that my game is in good shape right now, 
but, you know, golf’s a crazy sport. 
Anything can happen on any day of the week.”
 The freshman is coming off a victory at the Southern Highlands Intercollegiate in Las Vegas, the sec-ond victory of his young career. Fol-lowing his win, Horsﬁ  eld was also tabbed Southeastern Conference Freshman of the Week for his third SEC accolade of the year. 
The rest of the Gators’ lineup 
will include freshman Jorge Garcia, freshman Kyler Tate, senior Richard Donegan and redshirt junior A.J. Crouch. Donegan, who played in the Valspar in 2014, has not made an appearance in the lineup all sea-son. His last competitive round was at the SunTrust Gator Invitational 
on Feb. 21 where he competed as an 
individual. 
“I wanted to reward his com-
mitment, and his work ethic, and his dedication to the team,” Deacon said about inserting Donegan into the lineup. “He’s a great kid, and he’s worked hard, and he deserves this chance, so I’m really excited to see what he can do.”
Deacon said his team is ready 
and excited for the challenge to com-pete against another stacked ﬁ  eld. The Gators will need more than just Horsﬁ  eld if they are to capture their second victory of the season.
“It’s another good test, and we’re 
gonna go and have a nice little trip and enjoy it,” he said. “I’m looking forward to it.” 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org 
Gators to compete at Valspar Collegiate tourney