We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 115 THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
Florida football began 
Spring practice on Wednesday
Fulwood is looking to take on a bigger 
role, pg. 20
Police body camera bill sent to governor
GPD is looking into purchasing body cameras for ofﬁ  cers, pg. 5
Scholars discuss Jewish-Muslim history
Story description ﬁ  nish with comma, pg#Union Street Farmers 
Market comes back to Bo Diddly
Check out the photo story, pg. 3
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Presidential candidate Sen. Bernie 
Sanders, I-Vt., will speak to UF students 
and Gainesville residents this morning.
The presidential candidate will come to the University Village South Field, sit-uated next to the Southwest Recreation Center, said Isaac Netzer, the president of Progressive Gators. Guests will be al-lowed in starting at 8 a.m., and Sanders will speak at 11 a.m. No tickets are re-
quired for the free event, and Sanders is not being paid to speak.
Between 4,000 and 8,000 people are 
expected to attend, Netzer, a UF politi-
cal science sophomore, said. Those inter-ested in attending can RSVP at map.ber-niesanders.com, but admission will be given on a ﬁ  rst-come, ﬁ  rst-served basis.
Guests can park at UF’s Cultural Plaza 
on Hull Road, Netzer said. Sanders’ cam-paign is working with University Police 
to help with trafﬁ  c and security.Netzer, 20, said those not attending 
the event should expect trafﬁ  c delays in 
the morning.
“If you’re considering going to the 
gym between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m., I would reconsider,” he said. 
RTS posted a release warning about 
detours and delays today. Bledsoe Road will be closed from 7 a.m. to noon and the Samuel P. Harn Museum, Southwest  Sen. Bernie Sanders visits UF today
SEE BERNIE,  PAGE 4
CAMPUS
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
UF staff, faculty and students 
are being asked their opinions on guns.
James Shepperd, a UF psychol-
ogy professor, and a group of grad-
uate students designed a survey 
asking the UF community what they think about guns on campus. They sent out 60,000 emails for the survey, which will run for two weeks, Shepperd said.
“We are interested in people 
who live and work on campus ev-ery day,” he said. “When guns are 
around, do people feel less safe?”
Shepperd said the idea for this 
survey came from the recent de-
bate about gun laws in Florida.
“This wasn’t a response to 
legislation,” he said. “This was a response to the discussion that emerged in response to legislation. I am not trying to inﬂ  uence legisla-
tion here.”
Florida Senate Bill 68: Licenses 
to Carry Concealed Weapons or Firearms would allow those with 
a Florida concealed carry license to carry guns on Florida public col-
leges’ and universities’ campuses. 
Florida Senate Bill 300: Weapons and Firearms would allow permit-holders to openly carry handguns. Both bills are currently in the judi-ciary committee.  
The group worked with police, 
gun shop owners and other mem-bers of the community to create the 
questions for the survey.
“We got people on both extreme 
sides to comment on it,” he said. 
“We spent a tremendous amount of time vetting the survey.”
Brandon Woolf, the president 
of Students for Concealed Carry at UF, said he didn’t think the ques-tions on the survey captured the 
true issues of the debate. He said 
that statistics are better than feel-ings when it comes to understand-ing open carry laws.
“Most of the questions were 
pretty biased,” the UF architecture junior said. “I thought the survey  UF asked opinions 
on campus carry
SEE SURVEY,  PAGE 4
HE WILL START 
ON JUNE 1.
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF has selected a new vice president of Stu-
dent Affairs.
David Parrott, the current chief of staff and 
vice president of Student Affairs at Texas A&M University, will start June 1, the university an-
nounced Tuesday. 
Dave Kratzer, UF’s current vice president of 
Student Affairs, said he will retire in May after 30 years at UF.
Parrott will be paid $290,000 a year, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an email.
Parrott said he is looking forward to work-
ing with students at UF.
“I certainly think the students of the Univer-
sity of Florida are highly organized — highly talented,” he said.
He said he wants to focus on equality and 
accessibility to education while at UF. He will take ideas from staff, faculty, students and alumni to better UF.
“I want to listen to all the stakeholders as-
sociated with Student Affairs,” Parrott said. “I intend to hit the ground listening.”
Kratzer said he is excited to see Parrott suc-
ceed. He said Parrott has the experience from a large land-grant university needed to lead.“I think he’s going to be a great leader,” he 
said. “He had a very good track record.”
A search committee of nine UF administra-
tors and UF Student Body President Joselin Padron-Rasines selected the three candidates who applied for the position. Kratzer said the 
ultimate decision was up to UF’s provost, Jo-
seph Glover, and UF President Kent Fuchs.
Kratzer said after he retires he will continue 
to live in Gainesville and support the Gators. UF chooses David Parrott as new VP of Student Aﬀ  airs
SEE VP, PAGE 4Emma Green / Alligator Staff
TRICKS UP HIS SLEEVE
V, a magician out of Las Vegas, performs a magic trick involving three uneven ropes at the Market 
Street Pub and Cabaret on Wednesday evening.
He speaks at 11 a.m.
Sanders
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a 
Renaissance-Festival-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. un-til 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. 
The event will feature a rock 
climbing wall, crafts and face painting. The event will also feature two showings of the movie “Creed” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. Free bowling and pool tables will be part of the event. The night 
will end with free pizza dur-ing Midnight Munchies. This 
event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be current stu-dents to participate. Students 
are allowed to bring a maxi-
mum of one guest to the event.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. 
To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 115
HIGH  88° LOW  57°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, 
  Mary Grace Henley, David Hoffman  
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs  Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Lindsay Alexander, Maria Bonaventura,   
  Jessica Gonzalez, David Hoffman,  
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Ainesey Foira, 
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo Noguerol,   
  Caroline Rhoades,  Isabella Rodriguez,   
  Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
 Union Street Farmers Market comes back to Bo Diddley  
Photos by Andres Leiva
Alligator Staff Photographer
ABOVE:
Jon Wedemeyer of the North 
Florida Canine Behavior Center speaks with Gainesville resi-dent Lisa McKennon about her 7-year-old Great Dane, Syrus. “I like that I can bring my giant dog, ” McKennon said about the farmers market.
RIGHT:
Gainesville residents browse vendors’ wares on Wednesday afternoon at the ﬁ  rst Union Street Farmers Market after the Bo Diddley Plaza renova-tion. Previously, the farmers market was being held on Lot 10 in downtown Gainesville.A Gainesville resident for almost 60 years, Austin Gregg waits in line to purchase a pair of oak leaf lettuces at the Union Street Farmers Market. Gregg said he was glad the farmers market was back at Bo Diddley because he felt the space had more character than Lot 10.
Two-year-old Olive Sue Gage spins inside a hula hoop with her mother, Ashley Macsuga-Gage, at Bo Diddley Plaza on Wednesday during the Union Street Farmers Market. Macsuga-Gage said she loved the new space. “I feel like it’s really family friendly, even more than before, ” she said.4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
CAMPUS
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
No students protested during 
Created Equal’s last day on cam-
pus Wednesday.
The anti-abortion group dis-
played graphic images of abor-tions during its second day on the Plaza of the Americas and 
Turlington Plaza. 
Grant Schwab, a UF political 
science senior, was planning a 
counterprotest of the groups’ images but couldn’t attend due 
to the last-minute Bernie Sand-
ers rally today. 
He said without him orga-
nizing the protest, not many 
showed up. 
“To my knowledge, a couple 
people might have came, but 
didn’t stay for more than ﬁ  ve minutes,” the 21-year-old said. 
He said he expected 15 to 
30 people to silently protest the group. 
“In the grand plan, I think 
the event fell through for some-thing more important,” he said. “If one thing’s going to fall by the wayside, I’m not going to let it be Bernie.” 
Mark Harrington, the nation-
al director of Created Equal, said he didn’t see counterprotesters. 
“Nobody with signs that I can 
tell,” he said. “We want the stu-dents to get up and protest and have their voices heard. We’re for that.” 
Harrington said the group 
uses the photos because abor-tions are graphic, but he would not reveal the photographer’s identity. 
“I’m not going to disclose 
how we go about getting our 
photos; that’s conﬁ  dential,” he 
said. 
“That would jeopardize us 
being able to get any future pho-
tos,” he said. 
Emily Davidson, a UF eco-
nomics senior, said Wednesday 
was the ﬁ  rst time in four years she walked through the group’s 
signs. 
“I think it’s disgusting,” the 
21-year-old said. “I have to walk 
around this every single year.”
She said the pictures were 
too gruesome. 
“Of course free speech is a 
thing,” she said. “On a college campus, I just think it’s a little 
intrusive.”
Kaleigh Clarke, a 21-year-
old UF psychology senior, said 
while she’s personally against 
abortions, she disagrees with 
Created Equal. 
“I’m pro-life, but I think that 
these signs are a bit much,” she said. “I feel it could be heart-
breaking for anyone who’s been 
affected by abortion.” 
She said more focus should 
be placed on education and op-
tions for adoption. 
“I would encourage my 
friends to choose adoptions over 
abortion because I do believe that’s killing a human being,” 
she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  Counterprotest of pro-
life group falls through  By Melissa Gomez and 
Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
Lauren Book is walking to help 
42 million children.
About 30 volunteers joined her; a 
police car led the group while a large 
pink and blue tour bus followed be-
hind.  
She’s walking 4.2 miles every day 
from Monday to Friday, starting and 
ending at the Child Advocacy Center each afternoon, to raise awareness for childhood sexual abuse.
Her organization, Lauren’s Kids, 
started the “Walk in My Shoes” movement.
For the past seven years, Book 
has walked the state of Florida to educate people and prevent children from being sexually abused.
She walks 4.2 miles every day to 
symbolize the 42 million American children who are survivors of the 
abuse.  
This year, she is traveling from 
Panama City, Florida, to Key West; 
Melbourne, Florida, is her next stop after Gainesville, Florida.
Book said she founded the orga-
nization after being sexually abused from the age of 10 to 16 by her fam-ily’s live-in nanny.
“My family and I decided that we 
needed to turn a horriﬁ  c, harrowing experience into something positive where we can create change,” she said. “It shouldn’t hurt to be a child and all too often it does.”
She said her mission is to support 
survivors of childhood sexual abuse and let them know it’s OK to speak up. This week, she will visit schools in Gainesville and Alachua County.
“It’s all about educating commu-
nities,” she said.
Lexi Sidle, a 19-year-old UF ﬁ  -
nance sophomore, said she heard about the walk from her sorority, 
Kappa Delta.
She said advocating for child 
abuse victims has always been a pas-
sion of hers. 
In high school, she would help 
fundraise for child abuse advocacy programs.
Sidle joined the walk Wednesday.“I just wanted to come out and 
support,” Sidle said. “I hope it spreads awareness.”
Sidle said it was her ﬁ  rst time par-
ticipating in the event.
“I’m deﬁ  nitely coming back Fri-
day,” Sidle said.Woman leads walk for child victims
Recreational Complex and Family Housing cannot be ac-cessed, according to the release. The busses will be de-toured to Radio Road and NW 34th Street. Routes 117, 
118, 119 and 125 will use the 34th Street park-n-ride.
If the number attending rises, Natzer said the cam-
paign will consider busing people to the event from an-
other lot. He said Sanders’ campaign called him Tuesday 
to coordinate Sanders’ visit to UF.
Netzer and his group have wanted to bring Sanders 
to UF since he announced his run for the presidency, 
he said.
“I’m hoping this wakes up people and wakes Bernie 
Sanders supporters up,” he said.Steven Ochoa, a UF ﬁ  nance sophomore, said he’s 
supported Sanders since he appeared on “The Colbert Report” a few years ago.
On the show, Sanders spoke about his support of uni-
versal health care, the 19-year-old said.
He said health care is important to him because his 
father was diagnosed with diabetes when he was 34. 
“Ever since then, I liked what he stands for,” Ochoa 
said.
He said he wants to get in line at 7:30 a.m. to see 
Sanders speak. 
“I like to pick candidates off their character rather 
than their afﬁ  liation,” Ochoa said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org BERNIE,  from pg 1Guests are allowed in beginning at 8 a.m.
was tuned towards the population that is against gun rights.”
People shouldn’t be afraid of hav-
ing students, like him, carry guns on campus, the 23-year-old said.
“I’m the same person no matter 
where I go,” he said.
Jesse Fallen, the president of UF College Democrats, said he took the survey. He said he was pleased that the research was being done.
“I was happy to see a university 
department is asking students how they feel about this issue,” the UF economics senior said. 
Fallen, 21, said he hopes the bills 
in the Florida Legislature fail.
“I’m against guns on campus,” 
he said. “It something that interrupts the educational experience.”
Shepperd said he hopes he sees 
participation in the survey from those who support and oppose the 
legislation.
“We want everyone to partici-
pate,” he said. “We know it’s a very 
diverse community.”
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.orgSURVEY,  from pg 1The survey will run for two weeks
He is retiring to spend more time with his family, and he said he felt like it was time to move on.
“I thoroughly enjoyed this job,” he said. “I set some 
goals for myself and, with the opening of the Reitz Union, 
we’ve established those.”
When Kratzer came to UF, he started as the director 
of the Reitz Union. He was the associate vice president 
of Student Affairs from 2004 to 2011 and was named in-terim vice president of Student Affairs in 2011. In 2012, he became the ofﬁ  cial vice president.
“I love the University of Florida,” he said, “and I’m sure David Parrott will quickly ﬁ  nd this is the best divi-sion of Student Affairs in the country.”
Kim Pace, the associate vice president of Student Af-
fairs, said she will miss working with Kratzer.
“His leadership is beyond compare,” she said. “Every 
day I learned something.”
Pace said she heard Parrott speak when he presented 
his ideas for the position to UF faculty and staff. She said he will continue Kratzer’s legacy.
“I think he’s really going to do a terriﬁ  c job moving 
the university forward,” she said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org VP,  from pg 1He was selected among three candidates
Participants of “Walk in My Shoes” walk down University Ave-
nue on Wednesday afternoon in support of the organization’s efforts to raise awareness for childhood sexual abuse. Sup-porters will be walking 4.2 miles every day this week, symbol-izing 42 million children who are the victims of sexual abuse.
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator StaffShe walks 4.2 miles per day
“My family and I decided that 
we needed to turn a horriic, 
harrowing experience into 
something positive where we 
can create change. It shouldn’t 
hurt to be a child and all too 
often it does.”
Lauren Book
organization founderTHURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Dakota Williams
Alligator Contributing Writer
Introduced to establish stan-
dards for the use of body cameras 
by law enforcement, House Bill (HB) 93: Law Enforcement Of-ficer Body Cameras unanimously 
passed the Florida Senate on 
March 7 and, as of press time, is now awaiting action by Gov. Rick Scott.
Authored by Reps. Shevrin 
Jones (D-West Park) and Alan Williams (D-Tallahassee), the bill requires law enforcement agencies that use body cameras to create 
policies and procedures that out-
line proper use, maintenance and storage of the cameras.
It would also require a periodic 
review of the agency’s body-cam-era practices, making sure they align with department policies and procedures.
“Too often, body cameras are 
touted as the solution to police brutality,” said Khyra Keeley, a 19-year-old UF political science sophomore. “They aren’t the end-all-be-all solution, but this bill is definitely the first step in the right direction.”
HB 93 does not, however, re-
quire agencies to use body cam-eras.
Officer Ben Tobias, the spokes-
man for the Gainesville Police De-partment, said his agency does not use body cameras and would not currently be affected by the bill’s requirements, which he said could 
cost agencies like GPD at least half 
a million dollars from the start.
He said the expenses would 
result from the creation of new positions dedicated to overseeing recorded data and the need for new servers.    
“If we were asked if we want 
to use body cameras in the future, 
that would be a resounding yes — 
we want to,” Tobias said, “and if you were to poll our officers, they would actually want body camer-as. It adds a layer of transparency to what we do.”
After passing through both 
chambers of the legislature with no objections, HB 93 is now await-
ing Gov. Scott’s signature.
Fahad Khan, a 20-year-old UF 
political science and history se-
nior, said the bill is incredibly im-portant, especially in the midst of policing issues.
“People will benefit by know-
ing there are established proce-dures,” Khan said. “They won’t 
be just ad hoc.”Police body camera 
bill sent to governorBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Kissimmee, Florida, woman and two 
Lake Worth, Florida, men were arrested Tues-
day after police said they used fake credit cards to purchase about $1,200 worth of gift cards.
At about 11:30 a.m., deputies with the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office pulled over a white SUV for slowing down traffic. Inside, deputies found eight fake credit cards and 27 gift cards, according to a police report.
Authorities arrested Tammy Valdes Hor-
ta, 43; Manuel Leiva Orozco, 42; and Carlos Miguel Plasencia, 25, on nine charges of fraud for possessing the counterfeit credit cards.
During police questioning, Orozco said he 
bought the cards in Miami for $400 before driv-ing to Kissimmee, Florida, with Plasencia, ac-cording to the report.The plan, Orozco said, was to meet Horta 
and take a road trip to Arkansas, according to the report.
Horta said buying gift cards was the trip’s 
sole purpose. They stopped at several Wal-Mart locations and other stores as they trav-eled through Georgia, Alabama and Mississip-pi before reaching Arkansas, she said.
Twenty-three of the gift cards were Vanilla 
MasterCards. The other four gift cards were from Home Depot, J.C. Penney and Macy’s, according to the report.
Authorities took the three suspects to the 
Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, Horta and Plasencia remain in lieu of $65,000 bonds, and Orozco remains in lieu of a $90,000 bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgFloridians charged with fraud
Orozco
Plasencia
Horta
STATE
By Nicole Dan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students tried to lift a 32-pound 
bucket on the Plaza of the Americas on Wednesday. 
Chispas, a student-run immigra-
tion advocacy group, asked students 
to lift a bucket filled with weights 
and rice to see what it’s like to be a migrant farm worker. Migrant farm workers have to carry buckets of pro-duce to trucks, said Mariana Castro, the vice president of external affairs for Chispas.“I don’t think people understand 
the physical need to do all this work for such small financial gain,” the UF 
neurobiological sciences sophomore 
said. Students carried the bucket about 100 feet, the 21-year-old said. It was provided by the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a group that fights for fair wages and safe work-ing conditions for migrant workers.
“They don’t have any protection, 
so they don’t get basic human treat-
ment,” Castro said.
The groups will hold a march Fri-
day starting on Norman Field for fair-er work conditions, she said. Natalia 
Perez Santos, a UF history and po-litical science junior, said she heard 
about the CIW last year. She said fair 
pay and conditions for migrant work-ers are important to her because she is Latina.
“I could not imagine having to lift 
that day-in and day-out constantly throughout the entire workday,” the 20-year-old said. She said she plans on attending the march Friday.
“It’s really sad just how unjust 
their lives can be just from trying to make an honest living,” Santos said. Migrant farmer activists visit UFThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Donald Trump and the assumption of knowledge
Since Donald Trump has been ever-
present in the headlines lately, and because most Republicans don’t know 
whether to endorse him or run in the 
opposite direction, it is clearly time to 
discuss Trump’s greatest weakness: his inabil-ity to answer questions in a way that shows he 
has a firm grasp of the issues at hand.
One of the main arguments against Trump 
is his lack of self-control, which we see mani-
fested in his personal attacks against other candidates and his brazenness whenever he speaks. But this route 
of attack against him has time and again failed because 
Trump is, well, Trump. His entire past can show a clear line of behavior or opinion on an issue, but then his opin-ions change within a millisecond when he’s challenged. 
In this situation he usually counters with how he works 
well with people, but he ends up insulting the very peo-ple he may eventually have to work with.
What Trump really needs to be challenged on is his 
understanding of the issues. This is difficult to do, be-
cause for decades moderators and audiences alike have 
worked under the basic assumption that the candidates onstage have an understanding of what they are talking about. However, this assumption can no longer be held 
true, especially in elections with candidates who have 
never held public office looking to hold the most power-ful office in the world.
What separates Trump from other outsiders is his 
ability to sell himself to voters by “answering” questions. 
If you pay attention, Trump never actually answers ques-
tions within most of his ramblings on an issue. Rather, he creates a vague picture on the canvas of policy, re-sembling an almost childlike understanding of politics.
Let’s take up the issue of the border wall, something 
Trump has given very few details about. With what he has given us, we know it will span the entire southern border, it will have a “big beautiful door” and it gets larger and larger with each 
Mexican politician who says they won’t pay for 
it. Excluding the complexity of constructing a more than 1000-mile border wall — and never mind the geographical barriers, towns and cit-
ies in the way — let’s assume Trump can ac-
tually build it. How will he get the Mexican government to pay for it? A wonderful trade 
war, of course!
How can a businessman who has products made in 
Mexico and probably has undocumented immigrants working for him claim he will be tough on Mexico? Start-ing a trade war of that kind, coupled with deportations of cheap labor that the U.S. thrives on, would jeopardize 
our economy just as much, if not more than Mexico’s.
But Trump’s main goal is not to offer actual solutions 
for issues; it’s to be controversial. The idea of a border 
wall is not new in conservative America, but the rhetoric accompanying the idea has become demagogic in nature. 
Just like many other policies, Trump stokes the flames 
of anger among Americans who are disenfranchised but couples that with unrealistic policy expectations.
This lack of policy insight has become a central point 
during the debates, and even with nearly a dozen of them, there still is not a lot of solid policy in Trump’s answers. If his supporters enjoy him because he is not a politician, then why do they not address the fact that he dodges questions even more than his fellow candidates 
do? Trump isn’t speaking cold, hard truth; he’s usually 
just talking for the sake of talking. By no means should these be the qualities that describe the frontrunner of the Republican Party.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.Political parties 
aside, let’s respect 
each other
The news of presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sand-
ers, I-Vt., coming to UF has spread across the Swamp. Some are singing his praises, already planning on lin-ing up at 5 a.m. for the opportunity to hear Sanders speak. Others, however, are not responding so kindly.
Right now, we’re looking at you, UF College Republicans. 
And before we get accused of being just another liberal newspaper, let us explain our grievances.
On Wednesday, we saw a meme circulating that origi-
nated from the UF College Republicans’ Facebook page. It reads, “When you find out Bernie Sanders is coming to school to brainwash more of your friends,” and features a creepy cat-like thing that we guess is supposed to look in-credulous.
Our issue with this particular image is its assertion that 
anyone supporting Bernie Sanders is “brainwashed.” We’ll spare you a rant and instead just say this: If you truly believe that anyone who believes differently from you is “brain-washed,” you might need to look in the figurative mirror for a while.
As it turns out, these types of images are quite rampant on 
the group’s Facebook page. From making fun of Sen. Sand-ers’ tweets, to a compilation video making fun of Hillary 
Clinton for barking (don’t think we missed the implications 
of comparing a female candidate to a dog), to announcing, “The White House is not a retirement home,” we’re overall unimpressed with the maturity level of this particular stu-dent organization.
For the sake of unbiased journalism, we also took a look 
at the UF College Democrats’ Facebook page. There is an ob-vious lack of personal attacks, and rather a plethora of event promotions and general body meeting announcements. 
While this page is distinctly less entertaining, it’s a whole lot 
more respectful and conducive to a welcoming community.
Of course, we at the Alligator realize that differences of 
opinion are to be expected. Not just expected, in fact, but really appreciated and absolutely necessary in a democratic society such as our own. However, we’ve also seen the ef-fects of a lack of respect for opposing opinions on a national scale. Unless you’ve been living under a rock the size of Donald Trump’s ego for the past few months, you know this 
election has gotten nasty.
As college students, we have an incredible opportunity 
to be part of a free-thinking society right here on campus. 
There are tons of diverse groups to be a part of, including UF College Republicans and UF College Democrats. This expres-sion of thoughts and opinions is vital to an inclusive, diverse college campus.
However, let’s all take a step back and re-examine how 
we go about expressing those opinions. Ad hominem at-
tacks and immature social media posts are not the way to go 
about getting a point across. In fact, they really just make the group look immature and, quite frankly, uneducated.
We at the Alligator absolutely love seeing students taking 
the initiative to educate themselves and especially exercis-ing their right to vote. Contrary to popular belief, we’re cool with you having different political opinions from us. What we’re not cool with is seeing UF groups being rude to other students with different political views. Don’t we see enough 
of that on a national scale?
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257. Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“The best argument 
against democracy is a ﬁ  ve-minute 
conversation with 
the average vot-
er.” —Winston Churchill
Being able to vote on both 
local and national matters as a U.S. citizen is one of the most essential aspects of living in a democratic society. 
People have fought and died through-
out history for this privilege, yet a surpris-ing number of people will stay home on Election Day this November. This is by no means a bad thing. In fact, it’s one of the 
great things about our country: We don’t 
have an overpowering government that forces us to vote if we don’t want to. 
At a time when the government seems 
to be tightening its grip and rapidly ex-
panding its reach over the people, Ameri-
cans still have the choice of whom and what to vote for, if at all, without any overpowering pressure or inﬂ  uence pres-
ent.
All citizens should be informed vot-
ers and have their voices be heard during 
elections. 
However, I believe better decisions 
would be made at every level of govern-ment if the voting age were raised to 21.
How can the government not trust 
18-year-olds with alcohol yet trust them 
with making mature and well-informed 
decisions in elections? An 18-year-old can vote for the commander-in-chief but not legally have an alcoholic beverage for an-other three years. 
Now, voting and consuming alcohol 
are not at all related in action, but I think they both represent a certain level of re-sponsibility on both the personal and so-
cietal level.
I’m conﬁ  dent my vote is well-re-
searched, thought-out and representative 
of my personal beliefs and values. How-ever, I am not conﬁ  dent all 18- to 20-year-
olds are the same way. We’re still young, 
and young people — despite any claims otherwise — are still heavily inﬂ  uenced by outside and social forces that can mold 
one’s vote.I don’t want to general-
ize all 18- to 20-year-olds, but 
many young voters will vote 
for whomever their parents or 
friends tell them to, without do-ing any independent research themselves. Young people are 
often swept up with the social 
movements at the time and me-ander their ways through the po-
litical landscape with a “pack mentality,” just following the masses, not 100-percent 
sure of what exactly they’re following.
I may be wrong, but I would break the 
population of 18- to 20-year-old voters into 
thirds. One-third is informed and makes 
thoughtful decisions on whom and what 
they vote for. Another third will vote for whom and what they are told by friends and family. The other third will vote for whom they perceive everyone else will or 
whom they think has the best chance of 
winning — known as the “bandwagon ef-fect” in psychology.
The three years between 18 and 21 may 
not be a whole lot of time, but I like to think these years involve at least some maturing. A 21-year-old may be just as lost in the world as an 18-year-old, but they at least have some more life experi-
ence and education under their belts. 
Realistically, a 21-year-old might feel 
they have more at stake in the short-term, 
since they’re likely about to enter the 
workforce and real world. Our views are 
shaped by our upbringing, education, be-liefs and past experiences, and these three additional years can only result in more considerate, educated votes.
With the Florida primary just around 
the corner and a critical election coming this November, now is the perfect time to look inward and establish a personal po-
litical voice and view with a democratic 
vote. 
This is a pivotal time in U.S. history, 
and as our country appears to polarize it-self and the world becomes more intercon-
nected, every election and major decision 
being voted on will need to be decided by a knowledgeable electorate.
Andrew Hall is a UF ﬁ  nance sopho-
more. His column appears on Thursdays.America's voting age should be raisedColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.orgWhy is the death penal-ty one of the world’s most convoluted 
problems? I have 
written multiple pa-
pers on the death penalty, and because of the research I have 
done on capital punishment, I 
feel very knowledgeable on the subject. 
The death penalty, otherwise known 
as capital punishment, has always been 
extremely controversial and has amassed 
multiple opinions and views over the years. Capital punishment is not only a necessary and crucial part of our criminal 
system, but a way to balance the wrongdo-
ings — hence the title “Eye for an eye, life for a life.” 
The death penalty is a way to handle 
severe and extreme crimes and prevent 
crimes when used as a scare tactic, all 
while maintaining strong popularity in the face of opposition.
When the crimes committed by a crimi-
nal exceed the punishment of any amount of time in jail, the death sentence is used as the next and ﬁ  nal level of punishment. The criminal is sentenced to death in hopes that he or she will help ﬁ  nd retri-
bution for whomever was affected by the 
heinous crimes committed. 
This logic is best represented by the 
Code of Hammurabi: an eye for an eye. 
The Code of Hammurabi is an ancient 
set of rules from Mesopotamia, which can be seen in modern-day laws and trials. 
As stated in an article written by J. 
Budziszewski, “Retribution is the prima-
ry purpose of just punishment as such,” 
which means to some, the only way to receive retribution for a wrongdoing by another is to give a punishment of equal 
value.
The death sentence also doubles as a 
scare tactic that helps prevent crimes from 
happening altogether. 
For example, when someone is put in 
a situation in which they ﬁ  nd themselves thinking or planning on murdering some-one, they automatically start to consider the repercussions and immediately think 
of the most severe and extreme punish-ment: capital punishment. 
When in comparison to the 
life-in-jail sentence, a criminal fears the death sentence signiﬁ  -
cantly more. This is the reason criminals ﬁ  ght to receive the life in jail sentence over the death 
sentence in court.
Therefore, it is one of the 
most effective deterrents to mur-
der ever created, and it may save innocent 
lives. 
Even though more organizations are be-
ing formed to abolish the death penalty, the overall support of the death penalty has been steadily increasing throughout 
the past 14 years. 
This proves how a growing majority of 
the public supports the death penalty and 
agrees that it helps create a safer and more crime-free community.
Every bit of information mentioned in 
this column helps solidify and secure the notion that the death sentence should con-tinue to be carried out and supported in today’s law. 
It is a valuable component toward ﬁ  ght-
ing and preventing crime. The death penal-ty also proves how useful it is for deterring and handling criminals. It has continued to maintain a strong popularity while being 
attacked by abolitionist organizations. 
There is an abundance of information 
defending the necessity and effectiveness 
of the death penalty, so to get rid of it would be disastrous. 
This leaves no other option but to con-
tinue carrying out and using the death penalty in today’s courtrooms and crimi-nal trials.
A version of this column by Ziad Ha-
boush originally ran in Mace & Crown.Eye for an eye and a life for a lifeUWire
Ziad Haboush
UWire
"The death sentence 
should continue to 
be carried out and 
supported in today's 
law."8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
HE ALSO HAD 0.1 GRAMS 
OF COCAINE.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville Police officer tack-
led and arrested an armed man 
Tuesday morning.
At about 11 a.m., Officer Andrew 
J. Bunevich responded to a call of 
domestic battery in the 1100 block 
of NE 25th St., according to a police 
report.
He then stopped Aljuwan Melik 
Burnett, who was leaving the home, according to the report.
Burnett, 19, ignored the officer, 
stepped into the passenger seat of a 
white car and drove away, according 
to the report.
Bunevich followed in his police 
car and later located Burnett on NE 
25th Terrace, where Burnett ran 
from the stopped car, according to the report.
Bunevich drove within 10 feet of 
Burnett, who stopped running and began to turn around, according to the report.
As he left his car and stepped 
closer, Bunevich noticed a black handgun in Burnett’s hand. The of-
ficer then grabbed Burnett’s hand and tackled him 
to the ground, knocking the gun 
away, according 
to the report.
The gun was 
loaded with five 
bullets, according to the report.
Burnett said he carried the gun 
for protection because he sells 
drugs, according to the report. Po-
lice later found 0.1 grams of crack 
cocaine hidden in a ChapStick tube 
in Burnett’s front pocket.
GPD spokesman Officer Ben To-bias said officers who undergo trau-
matic experiences can seek coun-seling services from the Employee Assistance Program.
Bunevich, however, did not seem 
shaken up, Tobias said.
“It’s just another day at the of-
fice for him,” he said. “By the time you’re really processing it, you’re on to the next call.”
Police later discovered the gun 
was stolen years ago in a residential burglary, according to the report.
Police arrested Burnett on charges 
of carrying an unlicensed, concealed 
firearm and possessing cocaine, 
along with two counts of committing 
a grand theft of a firearm.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he remains, 
as of press time, in lieu of a $30,000 
bond.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgGPD officer chases, disarms man who had loaded firearm
By Anayansy Hernandez 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Scholars spoke about the history of Jew-
ish-Muslim relations at UF on Wednesday. 
UF and international researchers came 
together at Smathers Library to discuss the 
two religions’ mutual influences, culture, 
language, philosophy and rituals. The event, attended by about 25 people, took less than a year to plan and cost about $15,000.
The Center for Global Islamic Studies 
and the Center for Jewish Studies organized the event.
Jack Kugelmass, the director of the Cen-
ter for Jewish Studies, said he wanted the Gainesville community to learn about Jew-ish-Muslim history.
He said people might not be aware of the 
depth of the current Jewish-Muslim con-flicts, which are influenced by history. 
Terje Ostebo, the director of the Center 
for Global Islamic Studies, said scholars 
shared research findings they have been 
working on for years. The first panel discussed the locations 
where Muslims and Jews live in the Middle East. In history, there have been tensions 
over Jewish settlement in the predominant-
ly Muslim Middle Eastern cities.
Michelle Campos, an associate profes-
sor of Middle Eastern history at UF, said it’s important to understand the history each Middle Eastern city has. 
“In order to understand what happened 
to these imperial spaces, we must better un-derstand those places on their own terms,” 
Campos said. 
Campos said her interest in the history of 
the two faiths came from her doctoral proj-
ect about Palestine’s political history.  The project entailed Muslims, Christians and Jews demanding equality and the right to vote in Israel’s parliament, the Knesset, in the early 1900s. 
After the project, she said she still had 
unanswered questions about how Jerusa-lem could be shared between the cultures. Her current project seeks to answer those questions.“This project is really trying to give more 
of a social historian look at things I earlier asked,” Campos said. 
Campos said Jerusalem is the most 
studied Middle Eastern city and there are huge areas of it in which nothing is known about the city’s history.  Her current project, which she presented, attempts to fill in gaps about day-to-day life in the Middle East. 
Sherman Wilhelm, a UF economics and 
statistics junior, said he attended the event as part of a diversity project. He said he was 
surprised by the amount of information he 
learned.
“I thought it would be cool to learn how 
Jewish and Muslim cultures interact, espe-cially now with everything going on in the Middle East,” the 21-year-old said. 
Wilhelm said he did not expect the con-
ference to be as intellectually in-depth as it was. 
“It was a very different perspective,” he 
said. “It was good to hear from someone who knows about it and not just regular students.”Scholars discuss Jewish-Muslim history
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Mark Wagner, an associate professor of foreign language and literature at Louisiana State University, answers a question in 
the Judaica Suite of the Smathers Library on Wednesday during the Q&A portion of his talk, “Sexual liaisons between Mus-lims and Jews in 20th century Yemen. ” Wagner was one of several scholars invited by the Center for Global Islamic Studies and the Center for Jewish Studies for a conference discussing the history of Muslim-Jewish relationships.
Courtesy to the Alligator
Pictured is the gun found in Aljuwan Melik Burnett’s hand by Gainesville Police Officer Andrew J. Bunevich on Tuesday morning. The gun was loaded with five bullets, according to the report.
Burnett
By Nealy Kehres
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Gator Community Supported Agriculture 
program can now offer more options for organic, 
fresh and local produce.
Frog Song Organics, one of Gator CSA’s par-
ticipating farms, recently purchased 40 acres of 
farmland and plans to acquire livestock in hopes 
of recruiting more UF students and faculty.
Gator CSA is a program that works with a farm 
to provide the university community with fresh produce.
After joining the CSA program and paying a 
fee at the season’s start, members pick up a box of fresh produce every week on UF’s campus, ac-cording to the Office of Sustainability’s website.
The cost is $260 for 10 boxes in the Fall and 
$286 for 11 boxes in the Spring, both totalling $26 per week, according to the Gator CSA web page.
In turn, farmers receive immediate income for 
seeds and other necessities, often eliminating the need for operating loans.
The program also allows farmers to focus more 
on sustainable growing practices rather than mar-keting the produce, according to the website.
Co-owners of Frog Song Organics, Amy Van 
Scoik and John Bitter, both alumni of UF’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, have provided produce to UF students for four years.
Van Scoik said they started Frog Song Organics 
in 2011.
“The mission behind is just that we person-
ally really love to eat and really love good qual-ity food, and we felt the market was really wide 
open,” Van Scoik said.
She said the season is quickly approaching, 
and the CSA program will have plenty of crops for 
students, who currently make up a small portion of Frog Song Organics’ CSA membership.
“It’s a chance to both feed yourself, nurture a 
relationship and support a local farm, and that’s a win-win,” she said.
Rose Lyn Byrd, a 22-year-old UF economics se-
nior, said she enjoys supporting local farms and eating healthy.
“This is my last year in Gainesville, and it 
makes me feel more a part of my community,” she said.Gator farmers 
market expandsCAMPUSKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Music you might have missed over Spring Break
The latest hip-hop roundup by Jack DaSilva, pg 10.What’s inside: 
The Avenue’s ﬁ  rst-ever Tinder drinking game, pg 12.By Zach Schlein
Avenue Writer
On paper, there was no rea-
son to expect Okeechobee Music 
Festival would be the resound-ing success it turned out to be: Although Florida has long played 
host to music festivals catering to 
niche markets, such as the elec-tronic hedonists of Miami’s Ultra Music Festival or the crusty punks of Gainesville’s very own The Fest, Florida had yet to host an outdoor festival of the size, scale and broad appeal of Okeechobee. Would Floridians who were ac-
customed to the pulsating synths, 
lights and overpriced hotels of Ul-tra warm up to more esoteric mu-sical ventures like the psychedelic jazz offered by Kamasi Washing-ton, or even sleeping in a sticky, sweaty tent for four nights? Was there a possibility that acts not named RL Grime or Bassnectar 
would actually draw large, sub-
stantial crowds? The answer to all of the aforementioned questions was a ﬁ  rm yes.
Following in the footsteps of be-
loved camping festivals like Camp Bisco and Bonnaroo, Okeechobee Music Festival offered four nights and three full days of incredible 
music, stunning sights and eccen-
tric characters. Even those who may have missed Okeechobee but have been to similar festivals no doubt have an inkling of the in-sanity and beauty last weekend held: Until you’ve been to an out-door festival, you really have no idea what you’re in for.
Although there had been some 
grumblings that the Okeechobee lineup was little more than a Bonnaroo 2015-lite (see: Robert Plant, Kendrick Lamar, Mumford & Sons, Bassnectar… you get the idea) that didn’t stop the attend-ees — or the performers, for that matter — from having the time 
of their lives. The positivity per-
meating the festival was embod-ied by sets such as that of former Led Zeppelin frontman and Friday night headliner Robert Plant. With triumphant, rousing renditions of both solo material and Led Zep-pelin classics such as “Trampled Under Foot,” Plant’s performance 
with backing band the Sensa-
tional Space Shifters served as a gripping reminder to attendees of how lucky they were to be in the presence of a living legend. Even 
acts that may not have possessed 
the sheer star power of Robert Plant, such as synth-pop star duo Classixx, the alt-rock tricksters of Ween and Gainesville-based act Flat Land shone brightly over the course of the weekend.
Like all great festivals, 
Okeechobee didn’t rely solely on 
its musical acts to do the heavy 
lifting. The myriad installations, ranging from the inﬂ  ated white domes of the yoga tent (appro-priately titled Yogachobee) to the “Jurassic Park” meets “Close En-
counters of the Third Kind” meets 
illegal English rave aesthetic of Jungle 51, were not only great in their own right, but proved to be refreshing alternatives to con-ventional music festival fare. It certainly helped that drinks were in no short supply, with many an $11, 24-ounce Corona can lit-
tering the festival grounds in the 
wee hours.
For a festival only in its in-fancy, Okeechobee was remark-ably well thought-out and nota-ble. As of writing, we’re far from 
the only publication to think so: 
From Florida-based publications like the Tampa Bay Times to popular music journalism outﬁ  ts like Pitchfork and Consequence of Sound, Okeechobee was on the tips of many music nerds’ tongues Monday morning. Having been lucky enough to be a part of 
Okeechobee’s ﬁ  rst year, we can’t 
wait to see what the future holds.
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
LEFT:
Kendrick Lamar was one of 
the headliners during the ﬁ  rst-ever Okeechobee Mu-sic Festival.
BELOW: 
The four-day festival hosted names such as Skrillex and Gainesville’s own Flat Land.
Photos by Eugene Cho / Alligator
Okeechobee Music Festival wows with high-proﬁ  le lineup
MUSIC
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
The past couple of weeks have been 
pretty great for music. I rounded up the newest albums in case you were too busy partying over Spring Break to pay attention to the latest releases, which 
include a debut album, a collaborative album and even a surprise release from one of the biggest names in rap. Let’s get to it.
Feb. 19“Wave Gods”by French MontanaFrench Montana debuted his latest proj-
ect on DJ Khaled’s second episode of “We 
The Best Radio” on Beats 1. “Wave Gods” is 
an ode to the Harlem rapper Max B, who is currently serving a 75-year prison sentence. French Montana has always been a fairly in-consistent artist. He’s made some dope songs here and there but just can’t seem to make a solid project without having a few songs you find yourself skipping every time you listen. That is definitely not the case with this mix-
tape; I’ll keep it simple by telling you “Wave 
Gods” is one of the best tapes I’ve heard in a very long time. This mixtape is great from start to finish and gets better with every listen. The songs are album-quality and come with a great list of features from Kanye West and Nas on “Figure It Out” to Future, Travis Scott, Big Sean, Quavo of Migos, Kodak Black and more. 
It took me a couple weeks to get around to this 
tape and downloading it was one of the bet-ter decisions I’ve made in 2016. Do yourself a favor and take a listen to this tape. Stay wavy.
Feb. 25“Warlord”by Yung LeanYung Lean is a rapper out of Sweden who’s 
been slowly building a buzz over the past few years and gaining an underground following. “Warlord” is Yung Lean’s second studio al-bum, and he’s certainly not for everyone. Per-sonally, I’m not crazy about Yung Lean, but even if you can’t get down with his style at the very least you’ll be able to appreciate the production on this album.
Feb. 26“This Unruly Mess I’ve Made”by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis“This Unruly Mess I’ve Made” is the sopho-
more album from the hip-hop duo Macklemore and Ryan Lewis. A follow-up to their extreme-ly successful debut album “The Heist,” which went platinum and won a Grammy for Rap 
Album of the Year, “This Unruly Mess I’ve 
Made” is somewhat of a letdown. I don’t care for Macklemore, but the album has received generally mixed reviews. There’s too much good new music to listen to Macklemore.
Feb. 26“Jerome Raheem Fortune”by Rome Fortune
Rome Fortune is an up-and-coming rapper 
out of Atlanta and released his debut album “Jerome Raheem Fortune” on Feb. 26. The al-bum isn’t bad at all. With a good amount of auto-tune and cool beats, this album is worth checking out because you might enjoy it and discover a new artist you like.
Feb. 26
“HXLT”
by HXLTHXLT signed to Kanye West’s G.O.O.D. Music label back in 2015 and finally released his self-titled debut album Feb. 26. Before “HXLT” was released, I only listened to a few songs by HXLT and had no idea what to expect on this album. HXLT was a mysterious artist with little music released, and the songs he did have out had many different sounds. I went into this album with an open mind, and you 
should, too. “HXLT” can be classified as alter-
native/punk-rock but has a lot of hip-hop in-fluence, which makes for an interesting com-bination. ”HXLT” is a dope album that hits a few different genres, and I think a lot of people could vibe to it. Check it out.
March 4“COLLEGROVE”
by 2 Chainz and Lil Wayne
There were rumors about a 2-Chainz-and-
Lil-Wayne collaborative project in the weeks leading up to the release of “COLLEGROVE,” but a tweet from Kanye West on March con-firmed the release of the album. The album is technically 2 Chainz’s album, as it was re-leased in his name under Def Jam. Before you listen, don’t expect an album full of songs as good as “Duffle Bag Boy.” I’ve made my opin-ion of Lil Wayne known, so if you go into this album with no expectations you can’t be let down. With that being said, the album actu-ally surprised me. “COLLEGROVE” has an impressive list of producers including South-side, Mike Dean (the god), Mike Will Made It, TM88, Zaytoven and Metro Boomin. This 
album won’t be on repeat, but it’s worth tak-
ing a listen. Lil Wayne has his moments, but 2 Chainz certainly carried this project.
March 4“Too High To Riot”by BasBas is Dreamville’s secret weapon and re-
leased his second studio album “Too High 
To Riot” on March 4. The album is only 37 
minutes long but features J. Cole as well as labelmate Cozz. Bas is definitely slept on as a rapper, so check him and this album out.
March 4“untitled unmastered.”by Kendrick LamarJust as the title says, “untitled unmastered.” is a collection of raw demos and songs that didn’t make ”To Pimp A Butterfly” and were released without being mixed or mastered. After Spotify prematurely made the tracklist available to a new Kendrick album late on March 3, rumors spread like wildfire through social media. This became reality a short while later when Lamar surprised us with a new al-
bum available for streaming and for purchase 
through iTunes. The album is dope, not only because of the surprise release, but because we get to hear the songs and demos that didn’t make the cut to K Dot’s last album. Check out the album on genius.com to learn any and ev-erything there is to know about this album.
ff the Record Music you might have missed over Spring Break
Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
“Wave Gods” by French Montana12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
By Kelsey Bona
Avenue Writer 
Disney took a break from its 
recent tirade of snowmen and in-
ﬂ  atable robots to bring us some-
thing more familiar: animated, 
anthropomorphic animals. 
“Zootopia” debuted last week-
end to record numbers, taking 
in a whopping $73.7 million. Al-
though the ﬁ  lm balances humor and a good message, its success in the box ofﬁ  ce is more likely attributed to positive word of 
mouth than an extraordinary nar-
rative.
In a world where predator and 
prey coexist in apparent peace, an 
eager bunny by the name of Judy 
Hopps, voiced by Ginnifer Good-win, has always dreamt of prov-ing herself as a police ofﬁ  cer, a profession usually undertaken by 
larger species.
 She ends up biting off more 
than her rabbit teeth can chew 
when she moves to the opportu-
nistic city of Zootopia, only to be 
met with workplace discrimina-tion and a lousy job of distribut-ing parking tickets.
 When predators start going 
missing, Judy slips her way into the case with a grueling 48-hour time limit. In doing so, she takes 
on an unlikely partner, a devious 
and conniving fox named Nick Wilde, voiced by Jason Bateman, and together, they discover that 
the predator-prey relationship 
may not be as harmonious as ex-pected.  
By addressing the harm in ste-
reotypes and prejudices, “Zooto-pia” strikes hard with a ﬁ  ttingly 
topical lesson for 2016. 
There are some poignant 
scenes that stick out, like a moth-
er bunny scooting her child away 
from a predator on a bus seat and 
Judy reaching for her fox repel-lent at the slightest hint of trouble from Nick.
However, the message gets 
muddled the more it runs on. 
The predators, who hold the most 
power and start as the most big-oted, become the ones targeted by discrimination, showcasing that anyone can be hurt by prejudice. 
As well-intentioned and true 
as this may be, it comes across as the cartoon city’s own unneces-
sary “All Animals Matter” move-
ment instead of the more signiﬁ  -cant “Prey Animals Matter.” 
Not to mention, the ﬁ  lm covers 
the negatives of tokenism, but in real life, Idris Elba is the only per-son of color in its sea of white di-
rectors, writers and voice actors. 
The overall theme of denying ste-reotypes is still solid and impor-tant, but Disney’s valiant efforts could have gone a bit further.
While the story itself is origi-
nal, its conventions are trite. It has so many overused tropes that it’s predictable, and it shoves 
each conﬂ  ict in your face, making 
no use of subtlety. 
There’s even a long “Godfa-
ther” parody, as if that hasn’t been done before. What isn’t 
predictable, though, is the mov-
ie’s sense of humor. The jokes and gags are more amusing and tongue-in-cheek than cheesy, 
which is always refreshing in an 
animated feature. 
The sarcasm and wit, as well 
as its occasional pop culture ref-erences, actually make up for the 
lack of unique plot and character 
development.
Much of the movie is fun and 
cute, but it doesn’t feel like a 
Disney classic. For a story about 
animals, there’s a surprising ab-sence of ﬂ  ufﬁ  ness — not on the artfully-animated characters, but within the narrative. 
There’s no strong emotional 
focus, and there’s not enough depth to be heart-wrenching. This perhaps hurts the movie the most.
“Zootopia” is certainly a hu-
morous and progressive ride, but with some of its ﬂ  aws, it’s hard to fathom the recent hype and the reason audiences are hopping to 
it.Zootopia is good but overhyped
By Kirsten Chuba 
and Laura Gomez
Avenue Writers
Now that all Valentine’s Day 
festivities are over, you may ﬁ  nd 
that your two-week ﬂ  ing was re-ally just a way to feel less lonely on Valentine’s Day. So you partied 
too hard over the break, drunk-
enly confessed your love to your ﬂ  ing — or hooked up with your ﬂ  ing’s best friend — and it’s likely you’re extremely single again. Now you’re left with your only reliable friend: Tinder. What better way to get a date than with a little liquid courage? But please, put away the 
drunk goggles or you might get cat-
ﬁ  shed.
Good luck and happy swiping!
IF YOU’RE SEEKING A GUY
Take a sip of your drink every time…
 A guy is holding a dead ﬁ  sh
 A guy is posing with a dead deer
 A guy’s bio is completely 
blank
 A guy has a picture in which 
he is surrounded by girls
Take a shot...
 For every corny pickup line in his bio
 For every guy with his face covered by his phone (#cat-ﬁ  sh)
 For every guy you social-me-dia stalk and end up ﬁ  nding 
his girlfriend (Really, bro?)
 Every time you run into an 
Andrew or a Cody
 When the guy you super-liked super-likes you back When you land a date (Meet-
ing up at Grog is not a date.)
Finish your drink if…
 All of a guy’s pictures are of 
him working out
 A guy uses more than 10 emo-jis in his bio
 A guy lists all his social media accounts in his bio
 He says he’s an athlete but doesn’t show up on the roster 
IF YOU’RE SEEKING A GIRL
Take a sip of your drink every time…
 A girl poses in front of an American ﬂ  ag
 A girl “throws up” her sorority letters at the beach
 A girl’s bio includes a Marilyn Monroe quote
 A girl has a picture posing at Cantina
 For every gym selﬁ  e
Take a shot...
 For every fake account you encounter
 When a girl’s proﬁ  le picture is with Tim Tebow
 For every girl that says she’s not looking for “just a hook-up”
 For every overly edited proﬁ  le photo (Where’s your nose?!)
 If she states every activity or team she’s ever been a part of
Finish your drink if…
 All of a girl’s pictures are group photos
 A girl uses more than 10 emo-jis in her bio
 A girl says a guy needs to be at least a certain height in her bioTinder drinking game
DRINKING GAME
MEDIOCRE ADVICE
Julia Nevins
Avenue WriterDear Mediocre,How do I ﬁ  nd a way to relax while 
studying adequately at the same time?
- Chem Major
Chem Major,Relax is an interesting word that 
is certainly not afﬁ  liated with being a student — a chem major nonetheless. Now, while I can’t recommend the use of recreational drugs, I can recommend one of my favorite study spots: The Swamp in July. If you’re a football fan, it’s even better. Nothing says relaxing 
like trying to balance three textbooks 
on your knees while losing ﬁ  ve pounds of water weight due to profuse sweat-ing. Make sure to sit in the student sec-tion. It’s rumored that Coach Mac sits out there and contemplates his game plan before training sessions. Consider those seats kissed by the Gator gods.
If you’re like me, then you like back-
ground noise while you study. What could be better than hearing stadium runners pant and groan while they hus-tle toward their goal weight? I ﬁ  nd it therapeutic. Make sure to stare at them from time to time. It’s not creepy at all. It’s encouraging.
Good luck,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
What’s the best place to 
grab a burger?
- Starving
Starving,
With Gainesville being known for 
delicious gourmet eateries, as well as 
hole-in-the-wall grub hubs, the answer to this question is clear as night: Burger King. Hello? It’s called Burger KING for a reason. Clearly the cheap, greasy, meatless patties reign supreme in the burger universe. The Burger King on Archer has a fancy faux-ﬁ  replace and 
everything — just don’t order a milk-
shake. Their machine never works.
Ta,Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,
I’m fed up with my room-
mates. They let bags of trash 
accumulate. They eat my 
food. They even throw away my food. WHAT DO I DO?! How do I get them to stop?
Sincerely,
- Frustrated
Dear Frustrated,We’ve all been the victims of incon-
siderate roommates at least once in our lives — even if that roommate is a cat. Living with others is never easy, es-pecially if you’re a spineless crybaby. Lucky for you, I’ve got the perfect pay-back recipe, which includes liquid laxa-tives and some Nair.
Remember, if it doesn’t hurt anyone, 
it’s OK.
If garbage is piling up, then start a 
landﬁ  ll in his or her bedroom. Separate your roommate’s trash from yours, and have it waiting when your roommate gets home from a long day. Nothing says “home sweet home” like the smell of rotting eggs.
If your roommate is eating your 
food, lace the most sought-after items with laxatives. This will work especial-ly well if you have more than one sus-pect in mind. You’ll be able to pinpoint the culprit by the number of ﬂ  ushes per hour.
Side note: Buy air freshener.Lastly, if things escalate too far, then 
stop by your local pharmacy, ﬁ  nd the 
hair removal section and pick up some 
Nair. Put it in your roommate’s condi-tioner, and wait until you hear the high-pitch shrieks of horror. Checkmate.
Bottom line? Fight ﬁ  re with ﬁ  re. If 
your roommate gets you, get that per-son back.
Good luck,Mediocre
Send your questions to mediocre.al-
ligator.advice@gmail.com.It hit record numbers
Roommate probs & more
“Much of the 
movie is fun 
and cute, but 
it doesn’t feel 
like a Disney 
classic.”By Isa Perez
Avenue Writer
For Rebecca Maguire, being an 
art student can get pretty expen-
sive, so the UF visual art studies 
sophomore turns to The Repur-
pose Project.
According to its mission state-
ment, The Repurpose Project is a 
“community-based effort to divert 
useful resources from the landﬁ  ll, redirect these items to the pub-lic for art and education, inspire creativity and help us all rethink 
what we throw away.”
“There are so many unwanted 
items in the world that end up 
in a landﬁ  ll somewhere so Sar-
ah, my fellow co-founder and I, 
thought about what we could do about it and came up with this,” said Mike Myers, a co-founder of The Repurpose Project.
The project, located at 1920 
NE 23rd Ave.,  makes it ﬁ  nancial-ly beneﬁ  cial for Maguire to exe-cute her projects while sustaining 
goods.
“I think this is a perfect place 
for students to ﬁ  nd inexpensive 
supplies,” the 19-year-old said. “Some things have a price on 
them, but most of the time you 
end up naming your own price and walking away with so much.”
With just six employees and 
a few volunteers, The Repurpose Project is open to new items and ideas from surrounding counties, especially from university stu-dents.
“Our favorite time is when stu-dents move out and leave things out that they no longer want,” 
Myers said. “We like to call it 
Curbs-R-Us.”
While this organization is 
helping to solve the waste issue, locals beneﬁ  t from the things that 
can be found there as well.
“I love that the content of it 
changes as new things come and 
go,” Maguire said. “Anytime I’m 
assigned a project I go there for inspiration before I even begin, 
since I never know what different 
stuff I can ﬁ  nd every time.”
Rachel Wayne, a co-founder 
of DolphinWizard Puppetry and 
Toys, drops by regularly for cos-tuming and prop supplies for her 
puppets.
“My favorite part of The Re-
purpose Project is that it almost 
always has what I need,” Wayne 
said. “Any type of art or crafting supplies, they have it all.”
Wayne is never surprised at 
what she comes across at The 
Repurpose Project, but she was 
deﬁ  nitely happy when she found 
a particular object for a personal project.
“I would have to say the most 
unique item I’ve ever found was a pair of costume wings that I re-covered to be a part of a Gelﬁ  ng costume for Dragon Con,” Wayne said.
Wayne ﬁ  rst learned about The 
Repurpose Project in 2012 and kept it in mind when she opened her business two years later.
“Each puppet costs anywhere 
between $200 and $1,000, so the 
foam, fabric, PVC pipe and lum-
ber from there is really helpful,” Wayne said.
Satchel Raye, the owner of lo-
cal restaurant Satchel’s Pizza, re-thinks items from The Repurpose Project into art for the restaurant.
“I was inspired by folk art as a 
teenager and I found that there is 
so much beauty in the stuff that 
people throw out,” Raye said. “So why not use the free materi-als, recycle and make something 
cool?”
While it may seem the restau-
rant has always been decorated 
with funky art, it wasn’t Raye’s original plan to make it that way.
“We make new additions ev-
ery month or so,” Raye said.
 “I’m a workaholic, so I con-
tinue making art, collecting junk 
and ﬁ  nding a place for it, mak-
ing it a one day at a time sort of idea,” he said.
As for the future of The Repur-
pose Project as a whole, Myers 
hopes to have different areas for 
events, families and even a beer bar to make it feel more like a community where people can just 
hang out.
Maguire has been stopping by 
The Repurpose Project for two 
years now and plans to go for as long as she lives in Gainesville.
“I live by the fact that one 
man’s trash is another’s treasure, and I hope people can ﬁ  nd that in The Repurpose Project like I 
have,” Maguire said.By Macey Wilson
Avenue Writer 
The UF drama club Florida Players 
will present Timothy Mason’s play, “Only 
You,” this weekend.
The play is a romantic comedy that en-
tertains the idea of a modern-day fairytale.
Director Lauren Killer, a 21-year-old UF 
theatre senior, chose the romantic comedy 
because she loved how funny and quick-
witted the dialogue was.
However, the humor can present the ac-
tors with their own dilemmas. 
“The hardest part of the play was trying 
not to laugh throughout the scenes,” Jor-dan Sison, a 19-year-old UF acting fresh-man and one of the play’s actors, wrote in an email.
As a ﬁ  rst-time director of someone 
else’s work, Killer faced her own unique challenges. 
Not only did she have to deal with inter-
preting another author’s play, but she also 
had the ups and downs of being completely 
in charge.“On one hand, there’s no one to argue 
with,” Killer wrote in an email. “On the 
other hand, there’s no one to tell me ex-
actly what the right thing to do is.”
She wants the audience to not only 
laugh but be happy.
“Laughing is amazing, but it doesn’t 
necessarily indicate happiness,” she wrote. “I want it to entertain people and bring them joy.”  
Performances are Friday at 7:30 p.m., 
Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. and Sun-day at 2 p.m. in the Squitieri Studio The-atre in the Phillips Center for the Perform-ing Arts. 
Tickets are free and can be reserved on-
line.THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator 
Members of the Florida Players rehearse for their upcoming show, which 
opens Friday and runs through the weekend. Tickets are free and online. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
Mike Myers, 70, co-founder of The Repurpose Project, poses within the decorated dome climber, one of his repurpose creations. “It has new additions just about every week, ” he said. 
UF drama club to perform romantic comedy ‘Only You’ 
THEATRE
GNV’s The Repurpose Project turns trash into treasure 
“Laughing is amazing, but it doesn’t 
necessarily indicate happiness. I want 
it to entertain people and bring them 
joy.”  
Lauren Killer
UF theatre senior
Art students, local vendors ind use THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Countryside 4 Bd/4 Bth beautifully furnished condo on bus route. Bball, vball, pool, spa,  fitness room. $395/room, includes $37.50/room utility allowance. Fall occupancy. Jamie 561-338-5297 or jamie@zakarinlegal.com.   4-20-16-33-1  
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   3-11-15-20-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
2/2 Las Pampas TOWNHOME for sale. Bedroom on the first floor has tile flooring with access via sliding doors to a patio that is fenced for privacy. 2nd bedroom which is carpeted is located upstairs. 77k Call Theresa 407-462-8695    3-15-16-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
 
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished3 Subleases 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosTHURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-12This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
Designated drivers are the greatestUF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     3-22-16-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to 
astolzenberg@alligator.org
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 12 Autos16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
DOMINO'S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    3-31-16-
27-14
$100 PER NIGHT GUARANTEED
Domino's Hiring Delivery Drivers
Closing drivers can earn $100+ each 
night. Apply at gatordominos.com    4-20-
16-41-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
Seeking responsible and engaging individual to supervise and work with children grades 1st through 8th in our After School Program. M-F, 2:25-6:00 PM. Must be 18 years or older. Start immediately. Please submit resume and application to mmschool@millhopper.com    3-14-16-10-14
FUN SUMMER JOB ON UF CAMPUSSeeking enthusiastic and outgoing UF stu-dents to help with Gator Dining meal plan sales from May – August. Approx. 20 hrs a week, $10/hr plus cash bonuses, flexible hours and evenings plus free meals! Must enjoy interacting with others in a professional manner and have a positive attitude. Retail, customer service or volunteer experience is a plus. Apply online at www.gatordining.com    3-11-16-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
MEDICAL OFFICE
Pre-med student. Shits available, 1-9 p.m., Mon - Fri, Weekend hours vary. 15-20 hrs per week. Fax resume & availability to 373-2230    3-11-16-5-14
Mature responsible adult with education, mu-sic, or art orientation for day learning com-panion for teen. Own car and references. Email jdcschool@yahoo.com    3-11-16-5-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer!
Camp Counselors, Swim, Gymnastics,
Office, Rockwall, Cheer,
Dance, Cleaning, Drivers.
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!
3-18-16-10-14
M & C Army Surplus is hiring. 25 + hours per 
week. Firearm + Retail Exp. Required. Apply in Person to 626 NW 13th St    3-7-16-3-14PREGNANT? Consider Adoption.Financial Assistance, Support & CounselingGift of Life Adoptions. Lic#100051974. 800-216-LIFE (5433) www.giftoflifeadoptions.com, www.facebook.com/giftoflifeadoptions.    3-23-16-20-16
FINALLY! A Weight Loss Program Just 
For Teens. Lose weight for GOOD with the 
“World’s BEST Weight Loss Program EVER!” 
Results Guaranteed “Or Your Money Back” Here’s How It Works! www.skinnynhot.com    3-10-16-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYDo you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-
71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Gourley throws no-hitter in win 
for Florida softball.Read the story on pg. 20.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida men's golf finishes in second place in Las Vegas 
tourney
Freshman Sam Horsfield came in first place with a score of 7 under par. Read 
the story online at alligator.org/sports.By Jordan McPherson
Sports Writer
Third base felt like home for Mike Rivera on 
Wednesday night.
Normally a catcher or designated hitter for 
the No. 1 Gators, Rivera found himself starting 
at the hot corner in Florida’s second game of a 
home-and-home against North Florida.
He made the most of it.
Rivera’s sound defense and early three-RBI 
triple gave the Gators just enough to take home a 5-4 win over the Ospreys at McKethan Stadium. 
“We need to get our offense going a little bit 
more,” said UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan, whose team managed just seven hits on the night, “… but at the end of the day, good teams find a way to win.”
Small ball and patience at the plate set the 
stage for Rivera’s big hit in the bottom of the first.
A Buddy Reed fielder’s choice, a Peter Alonso 
walk and a Deacon Liput two-out single loaded the bases for the sophomore with the Gators.
Facing a full count and a 1-0 deficit to the Os-
preys, Rivera laced a Zach Drury fastball to the wall in left-center field. 
As his three teammates raced toward home 
plate, Rivera hustled along the basepaths before sliding safely into third for his first triple of the season.
“I knew he didn’t want to walk me this early 
in the game, so I was just hunting fastballs,” Ri-vera said.
While Rivera’s offense gave the Gators (14-1) 
the initial lead, his defense at third base was a critical factor in preserving it.
Rivera, who played third base during his stint 
with the USA Under-18 national team during his  high school playing days, cleanly fielded all five balls hit his way with ease before moving to catcher in the eighth, including one in the fifth that allowed the sophomore to show off his arm 
and defensive prowess.
With two outs in the fifth, UNF shortstop Kyle 
Brooks hit a dribbler that skirted along the third-
base line. Rivera scooped up the ball behind the third-base bag and fired it across the diamond to first baseman Peter Alonso to end the frame.
His defense carried over when he moved be-
hind the plate. With two outs in the ninth and UNF’s potential game-tying run on third, Rivera Gators narrowly complete sweep of UNF  
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
 
On Monday, while game-
planning for its most important 
game of the year, Mike White 
was trying to figure out how Florida — the Southeastern Conference’s 10th-ranked team in points per game — was going to score.
And on Wednesday, UF an-
nounced that one of its most vital pieces — center John Eg-bunu — tore a ligament in his right thumb.
The timing was disastrous 
for Florida.“Just really disappointing,” 
White said on Wednesday. 
“All you can do at this point 
is try to overcome it.”
As the No. 8-seed Flori-
da  basketball team faces No. 9-seed Arkansas at 1 p.m. in the second round of the South-eastern Conference Tourna-
ment, it will be attempting to 
overcome more than just a lim-ited Egbunu, who practiced on Wednesday and is expected to play with a brace.
UF must also fight past its 
disappointing end to the regu-
lar season, which saw it drop 
four of its last five games.
It must overcome its fall 
from a secured spot in the 
NCAA Tournament to a likely With Egbunu limited, UF’s chances in tourney are tooSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 19
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 19 SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 19Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Mike Rivera makes a throw while playing third base during Florida's 5-4 win over North Florida on Wednesday night at McKethan Stadium.
DAVIS WAS SECOND ON 
THE TEAM IN TACKLES LAST 
SEASON.
By Graham Hack
Sports Writer
After a disappointing end to his best 
season in college, linebacker Jarrad Da-
vis had to do his due diligence.
Despite strongly committing to re-
turn for his senior season after the 
Southeastern Conference Champion-
ship Game in December and reaffirm-ing that commitment a week later, the linebacker felt obligated to see where he stood in relation to the NFL Draft.
Had Davis seen himself ranked as 
a first round prospect or “something totally unexpected,” he said, he might have decided to make the jump to the 
next level.
But he insisted that deep down, his 
feelings on leaving school early never 
changed.
“I don’t really think I was that close,” 
Davis said. “I knew what I wanted to do after the SEC Championship Game.
“Of course, I had to look and see 
what it looked like. But at the same 
time, just that bad taste that was in my 
mouth, I can’t walk away from that.”
Two months since Florida’s 41-7 
pelting from Michigan in the Citrus Bowl, Davis got his first chance to get rid of that bad taste, participating in UF’s first Spring practice of the year.
“It feels awesome,” Davis said. 
“Coming back out here to put the hel-
met on, getting to run around and throw 
around the rock a little while is what we all needed. You almost have withdraw-als sitting around and working out all winter.”
But although he and his teammates 
have returned to a familiar setting, there was still something unfamiliar for Davis about taking the field without the likes 
of Jon Bullard, Antonio Morrison, Kea-
nu Neal and Vernon Hargreaves.
“I’m not going to lie,” Davis said. “It 
was kind of weird not seeing those guys around me.”
Those four are busy preparing for the 
NFL Draft and their pro day on March Florida 
linebacker looking to fill void on defense
UF plays Arkansas at 1 p.m.BASEBALL18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
fielded a Shaun Anderson ball in the dirt well off the plate 
to avoid passing the ball during Keith Skinner’s final at-
bat. Anderson forced him to ground out a couple pitches 
later to end the game.
“That was a game-saving play behind the plate there,” 
O’Sullivan said.
Mark Kolozsvary tacked on to Florida’s score in the 
second when the catcher belted a fastball over the left-
field fence for his second home run of the year.
A JJ Schwarz infield single that scored Dalton Guthrie 
in the seventh proved to be the deciding factor.
North Florida (6-8) opened scoring in the first inning 
when right fielder Nick Karmeris hit a single through the right side to score Brooks from second base. The Ospreys added two more runs on Corbin Olmstead RBI doubles in the third and eighth innings and then cut their deficit to 5-4 on a Christian Diaz RBI groundout later in the eighth.
On the mound, UF freshman Jackson Kowar earned 
the win after pitching six innings of two-run ball. 
The 6-foot-5 righty gave up four hits and a walk while 
striking out four batters, and at one point retired nine-straight batters.
Florida continues its nine-game homestand on Friday 
against Harvard, the start of the Gators’ final weekend se-ries before Southeastern Conference play. 
First pitch is set for 7 p.m.
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.org BASEBALL,  from pg 17Kowar retired nine-straight hitters
entry into the National Invita-
tion Tournament.
It will be forced to advance far 
in Nashville, likely winning three or four games, to even be consid-ered for a spot in the Big Dance.
And it’ll try to reverse its sub-
par performances away from the O’Connell Center this season, in-cluding a 4-8 record in true road games.
“I think it’s a heck of a league, 
of course. And you’ve got proba-bly a few (teams) that are playing better than the rest,” White said.
 “But then you’ve probably 
got a middle group there of four or five teams that probably — night-in and night-out — will be competitive with those top four or five.”
The Gators are hoping that 
they fall in that middle pack.
But first they’re focused on the 
Razorbacks, a team they beat by 
just four points at home on Feb. 
3.
And with Egbunu limited with 
a brace, the question remains how Florida will limit 6-foot-10 Arkansas forward Moses Kings-ley. 
The 2016 second-team All-
SEC member scored 15 points and grabbed nine rebounds in their last matchup, with Egbunu 
guarding him in the post for a ma-
jority of the game.
If Egbunu proves ineffective, 
White will be forced to turn to freshman forward Kevarrius 
Hayes or reserve center Schuyler 
Rimmer.
“Maybe he can fight through 
some pain and give his team-
mates some effort and some min-
utes,” White said of Egbunu. 
“Again, I’m not sure how ef-
fective he’s gonna be simply 
catching the basketball.
In Florida’s last home game, 
an 88-79 loss to Kentucky on Feb. 
6, Egbunu finished with a game-high 27 points while collecting four rebounds and one block. 
While Egbunu’s hand injury 
shouldn’t affect him much on the defensive end, his offensive game 
will likely suffer.
“...It ought to be interesting."
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgHOOPS,  from pg 17Florida beat Arkansas 
at home on Feb. 3
UF had its first Spring practice W ednesdayJordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Jackson Kowar pitches during Florida's 5-4 win over UNF on Wednesday night at McKethan Stadium.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF linebacker Jarrad Davis tackles Florida State running back Dalvin Cook during Florida's 27-2 loss 
on Nov. 28, 2015, at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
John Egbunu dunks during Florida's 88-79 loss to Kentucky on March 1 in the O'Connell Center.
22, with some of them putting their 
first-round projections on the line.
Davis could easily be participat-
ing in pro day instead of working out with a bunch of early enrollees and 
a group largely made up of young, 
unproven talent.
But the senior believes he can still improve on his 2015 season, a year that saw him rank second on the team with 98 tackles as well as 3.5 sacks and an interception.
“I just need to make sure that I 
show that I’m a consistent player and I’m somebody that’s going to go out and take over every play, take over every snap and not wait for anybody else on the field to make a play.”More than that, though, Davis 
feels like he has unfinished business in college, and last year was just scratching the surface.
“I know that I came back to do 
something special and leave my mark,” Davis said.
@graham_hack24
ghack@alligator.org
FOOTBALL,  from pg 1720   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, MARCH 10, 2016
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
When Ahmad Fulwood arrived 
at Florida in 2013, he brought high 
expectations with him. 
A 4-star prospect out of Bishop 
Kenny High School in Jacksonville, 
he was rated higher than current 
Florida starters Caleb Brantley and Jarrad Davis, as well as soon-to-be NFL Draft pick Keanu Neal, accord-ing to 247Sports. 
He possesses elite height, measur-
ing in at 6-foot-4. He was an Army All-American. His coaches thought so highly of him that he saw the ﬁ  eld 
in all 12 games as a true freshman.
But so far, saying that the senior 
has underwhelmed would be an un-
derstatement. His freshman year turned out 
to be one of his best, as he racked up 17 catches for 127 yards and a 
touchdown. His sophomore year 
was similar, with fewer receptions (12) but more yards (199) and one touchdown.
 And last year, which was sup-
posed to be his breakout year, he dropped to six receptions for 61 yards and no scores, taking a back-seat to breakout star Antonio Calla-
way. 
But with Callaway’s future uncer-
tain and with the youth of Florida’s 
receivers, Fulwood has one ﬁ  nal chance to live up to the hype. 
And he is embracing the role. “Coming out here, I just wanted 
to have a different year than I had last year,” he said of starting Spring practice on Wednesday. 
“I want to be a bigger playmaker 
for the team and have a bigger load 
on my back.”
One thing that could help Ful-
wood is the inﬂ  ux of talent the Gators 
have brought in at quarterback.
Luke Del Rio, who sat out last 
season after transferring to UF from Oregon State, has a “leg up” in the competition according to McElwain, and he and Fulwood have a history.
Back in high school, when Ful-
wood was a standout at Bishop Kenny and Del Rio was the starter at Jacksonville Episcopal, the two played against each other. 
“When Episcopal played B.K. we 
beat the hell out of him, probably had four picks in the ﬁ  rst half. Those are days I don’t like to remind him of 
because I know he’s gotten a lot bet-
ter since then,” Fulwood said. 
“I always tease him about that.”But Fulwood has wanted to make 
a difference since day one. 
So what’s he doing different this 
year?
“It’s more of off the ﬁ  eld,” he 
said. “Getting a lot more treatment. 
Eating right. Living right. …and 
then during practice just keeping my speed up, staying on time with my routes and stuff like that.”
His focus on putting in the work 
off the ﬁ  eld showed, as the same player who arrived weighing 200 pounds said he was up to 215. 
But off-the-ﬁ  eld work aside, Ful-
wood only has one season left to make an impact for his team, and he’s focused on helping his team one day at a time.
“I’m just trying to go out here and 
catch some balls, run some routes with my friends,” Fulwood said. 
“If it helps the team move for-
ward, that’s what I’d like to do.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFulwood looking to take on bigger role
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Behind a no-hitter and three 
home runs, Florida continued its winning ways on Wednesday night at home.
No. 1 Florida (24-0) beat 
South Dakota (2-20) in back-to-back games to sweep its double-header at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. UF picked apart its op-
ponent in the ﬁ  rst game, win-
ning 9-0 in the sixth inning. In the second game, junior Delanie Gourley threw the second no-hit-ter of her career, and the Gators scored eight runs before the USD defense recorded an out and won 9-0. 
Kirsti Merritt carried the 
Gators’ offense in Game 1. The senior hit a sacriﬁ  ce ﬂ  y, was hit by a pitch and hit a pair of two-run home runs. The ﬁ  rst was a low-ﬂ  ying liner over the left-ﬁ  eld wall. The second was a towering shot ﬂ  ying 30 to 40 feet past the left-ﬁ  eld fence.
“The second one I knew was 
out right away,” Merritt said. “The ﬁ  rst one was kind of one of those line drives. You always like to see (those) go over the fence.”
The Gators led 6-0 going into 
the bottom of the sixth. With Merritt and sophomore Janell Wheaton on second, sophomore Kayli Kvistad strolled up and hit a long ﬂ  y ball over the right-ﬁ  eld fence. The home run ended the 
game, as the Gators eclipsed the 
eight-run rule.
Freshman Kelly Barnhill took 
command of the mound for Flor-ida. She pitched ﬁ  ve innings and gave up just one hit, one walk and struck out seven. The Gators piled it on in the 
second game behind Gourley’s pitching performance.
Senior Kelsey Stewart tripled 
to start the bottom of the ﬁ  rst. Two batters later, Wheaton walked with the bases loaded to put the Gators up 1-0. The next batter, Kvistad, knocked a base hit up the middle, driving in two runners. She tried to steal second base during the next at bat and 
got caught in a jam, distracting 
USD’s players while the runner on third scored. 
The Coyotes’ pitchers walked 
ﬁ  ve batters in the ﬁ  rst inning, and by the third out, the Gators were up 9-0. 
In the circle, Gourley’s no 
hitter was her ﬁ  rst since her 
freshman year. Only one runner 
reached base for USD after being hit by a pitch in the second in-ning. 
“It’s always exciting to reach 
an accomplishment like that,” Gourley said. “It was fun how excited the rest of my team was for me.”
Florida’s competition will take 
a step up this weekend, as the Gators travel to No. 3 Auburn for a three-game series beginning Saturday at 8:30 p.m. It’ll be UF’s Southeastern Conference opener. 
“We talk more about the 
Florida Gators more than we talk about our opponents,” Walton 
said.
 “So, next game’s our ﬁ  rst SEC 
game on the road at Auburn. But 
to our team, it’s really not that. It’s really more about us doing what we continue to do.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgGourley throws no-hitter 
in win for UF softball
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida receiver Ahmad Fulwood catches a pass during the ﬁ  rst day 
of Spring practice on Wednesday.
FOOTBALL