We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 157 TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
UF’s season ends after CWS loss
Alex Faedo is one of the many players returning 
next year, pg. 13
Safety and savings on the road
An organization’s message about tire pressure, pg. 3
Letter: Student Body President Susan Webster 
She addresses voting issues, changes, pg. 7Two charged for mobile meth lab
See the story at alligator.org
DIGITAL
By Samuel Figuera
Alligator Contributing Writer 
An online crowdfunding cam-
paign to raise money for the victims 
of the June 12 shooting at Pulse 
nightclub is nearing its $7 million 
goal.
Equality Florida, the state’s LG-
BTQ+ civil rights organization, cre-
ated a GoFundMe page the day of the 
shooting in an effort to support the families and survivors in need. The total amount raised is about $6.4 mil-lion, as of press time.
One-hundred percent of the funds 
will go toward the Pulse shooting victims, according to Equality Flori-da.
Ida Eskamani, Equality Florida’s 
North and Central Florida develop-ment ofﬁ  cer, said she began working on the GoFundMe page within hours after the shooting. 
The goal of this campaign is to 
disburse funds in as little as eight weeks — a contrast to the typical fundraising campaign that takes six 
to eight months to properly disperse 
funds, she said. To ensure this hap-pens, Equality Florida is working in partnership with the National Center for Victims of Crime to administer the distribution of funds.
GoFundMe is also working close-
ly with Equality Florida by donating $100,000 and allowing other dona-tions pages to be linked to the orga-nization.
“We are so grateful to have cho-
sen GoFundMe as our fundraising platform because it allows us to le-verage the power of social media in 
the global community,” Eskamani 
said.
Initially, Eskamani said Equality 
Florida aimed at collecting $100,000 worth of donations. But it then ad-
justed that goal.
“We have over 115,000 donations 
from 120 countries,” Eskamani said. 
“The vast majority are small dollar 
gifts. It’s a powerful statement that 
shows the world is standing with Or-lando.”
One donor, Shane Doyle, contrib-
uted after hearing of the Pulse Shoot-
ing. “When I ﬁ  rst heard about the at-
tack, I couldn’t believe it.” Doyle has many friends in the LGBTQ+ com-munity and decided to help saying, 
“I’m not close enough to give blood  Online fundraiser for 
Orlando nears goal
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
Yunfai Ng can thank procrasti-
nation for her new opportunities.
Procrastination led the 21-year-
old UF graduate to the Mama Hope 
organization, which specializes in community development in some of the world’s poorest areas.
It led her to the organization’s 
Global Advocates program, for which she was recently selected. 
In September, it will lead her 
to western India, where she’ll be tasked with bringing a mobile health clinic to the villages of Gu-
jarat. 
Ng said it was all because she, 
like countless other people, wanted to avoid studying.
Her test of choice was the Medi-
cal College Admission Test. Having 
graduated in December 2015 with 
a degree in microbiology and cell 
science, the native of Miami Lakes, 
Florida, spent the spring studying for the 6-hour exam. 
The need for a break eventually 
came, and it was avoiding the rigors 
of nucleic acids and carbon bonds 
that led her to search for a job.“I still don’t really remember 
which button I clicked on the inter-
net to get there,” she said. 
Ng said she wanted to do some-
thing different, and that, after an 
exhaustive search, she found Mama Hope.
“I made sure I bookmarked it,” 
she said, “because if not, I would 
never have been able to ﬁ  nd it 
again.”
She later applied by writing 
three personal essays, posting two YouTube videos and agreeing to 
raise $20,000 for her project. 
A phone interview stood be-tween Ng and a completed applica-
tion, but she would soon embark on 
a family cruise, devoid of cellphone 
reception.  
Ng called Mama Hope and re-
quested to interview early. Her 
request was granted, and she re-
turned from the cruise to ﬁ  nd she 
was a Mama Hope Global Advocate — the ﬁ  rst-ever from Florida after 
10 past groups of advocates.
She is tasked with the end goal 
of starting a mobile health clinic in 
India — a concept Ng said she is fa-miliar with. 
Ng said she worked as a vol-
unteer coordinator for UF’s Mobile 
Outreach Clinic, a program she 
originally found while procrastinat-ing.
“It’s kind of like a mirror,” she 
said of ﬁ  nding the two programs. 
While working for the UF clinic, 
Ng said she realized the difﬁ  culties 
even people in a city like Gainesville 
face when it comes to getting to a 
hospital for basic medical care. 
“That’s the beauty of this mo-
bile model,” she said, “where I am 
bringing the services to your neigh-
borhood.”
Sara Rahal, who worked with 
Ng as a volunteer at the clinic, said Ng has many qualities that make 
her a good ﬁ  t for a project such as 
Mama Hope.
Among those qualities is the  UF alumna hopes to raise money and start clinic in IndiaSEE PULSE,  PAGE 3
SEE INDIA,  PAGE 3
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
STRENGTH IN UNITY 
Century T ower, lit with rainbow colors in support and solidarity of the victims of the 
June 12 Pulse nightclub shooting. T oday, UF will be hosting a commemoration and 
unity ceremony at the tower at 8:30 p.m. The tower will remain lit with the colors until 
Friday.
She is the program’s irst FloridianLOCALSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  71°
WHAT’S HAPPENING
 Blue Star Museums May 30 — 
Sept. 5
The Florida Museum of Natural History is offering free admis-sion to all fee-based exhibits for active duty U.S. military person-nel and their families, from now through Sept. 5, Labor Day, as part of the Blue Star Museums program. Free admission is available to any active duty Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines or Coast Guard personnel, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserve, U.S. Public 
Health Service and National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps, and up to five family members. For more informa-tion, including a list of partici-pating museums and acceptable IDs, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calen-dar/grid/blue-star-museums. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submissions 
after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, aalbright@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Alligator Staff, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Mathews Silva, Donovan Vazquez,   
  Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 157
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer
About a dozen agents at UF’s In-
stitute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences have signed up for the orga-nization’s new Zika Challenge, and members can sign up until Friday. 
The program is meant to prepare 
the institute’s faculty and all Florida residents to fight mosquitoes, espe-cially as the Zika virus continues to gain attention, said Ken Gioeli, an extension agent in St. Lucie County.
The program is called a challenge 
because agents will need to train and pass an exam to receive their Pub-lic Health Pest Control license — the equivalent of a license for someone who specializes in mosquito control, 
Gioeli said. 
He said it also challenges the 
community by encouraging residents 
to learn more about mosquitoes and to use products that UF considers ef-
fective for killing mosquitoes. 
“Everybody has a responsibility 
to manage mosquitoes on their own 
property,” he said. 
Mosquitoes are known to carry 
many other diseases aside from the 
Zika virus, and homeowners, Gioeli 
said, should know how to manage 
mosquito breeding.Mosquitoes use places such as 
gutters, birdbaths and planters to breed. Such places may seem un-
usual, but larvae often live in them, 
he said. 
Anita Neal, the director of the in-
stitute’s St. Lucie County Extension Office, said Gioeli helped form the 
Zika Challenge to educate agents, 
who will then educate the public.
“We’re like the first responders,” 
she said. “People call on us to ask 
questions.”
With constant reminders and 
new information, managing mosqui-
toes could become second nature, 
she said. “You get in a habit, like brush-
ing your teeth and turning the water off,” she said.
Dr. Roxanne Connelly, a profes-
sor of medical entomology, said the 
Zika virus is spread through the bite 
of infected mosquitoes. 
Humans can also pass the virus 
to each other, she said. Infected men can transfer the virus through sex, 
and mothers can pass it to a fetus.
Though nobody has contracted 
Zika on U.S. soil, 820 infected people have returned with the virus from 
abroad, Connelly said. As of press 
time, Florida accounts for 223 cases.
She said Florida, Hawaii and Texas have the highest risk of a Zika 
outbreak because of two particularly dangerous mosquito breeds, which 
also spread diseases such as Chikun-
gunya virus, dengue fever and yel-
low fever. 
The Zika Challenge, she said, 
“will work to reduce mosquitoes, 
prevent mosquito bites and prevent 
mosquito-borne diseases” by licens-
ing its agents, using social media, 
publishing news articles and offering 
public training events. 
A list of local extension offices 
and effective mosquito repellents 
can be found at solutionsforyourlife.
ufl.edu.New program aims to fight mosquitoes, educate public  
— but I had to do something.”
After browsing for potential Pulse fundraising sites, he found 
Equality Florida. At first, he said he reserved caution about donat-
ing and decided to do some research before committing. He said he 
found that Equality Florida was a site that he could trust after seeing the report Guidestar, a database of nonprofits, released for Equality Florida.
The lives of the victims, families and survivors are forever 
changed, but one thing is certain — there are thousands of support-
ers standing beside them. Eskamani said of the fundraiser’s success, 
“We never expected for this to happen. We are amazed by the out-
pouring of love and support.”PULSE,  from pg 1It was created June 12
ability to connect with people and 
adapt to new situations, Rahal said. 
“You can’t really tell if she’s 
stressed or not because she handles it very well,” she said. “She knows how 
to prioritize.”
Her main challenge is currently to 
meet the $20,000 goal, half of which she needs by the time her trip to India comes in late September. 
As of press time, Ng said she has 
raised about $800. But with events such as a July 15 
fundraiser at Oak: Original American Kitchen, located at 15 SE First Ave., Ng said she is not nervous about rais-ing the money or living in India for three months. 
She also has an ongoing fundraiser 
at classy.org/yunfai4desai.
Though she may find peace in pro-
crastination, it has worked before.  
“My parents are definitely more 
worried than me,” she said.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgINDIA,  from pg 1She will travel to India in September
Yunfai  Ng
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
LOCAL
By Demi Wolfe 
Alligator Contributing Writer
The Petco Foundation will start 
using a $10,000 grant, recently 
awarded by the Alachua County Humane Society, by next week. 
Since 2011, the no-kill animal 
rescue shelter, in partnership with other local rescues, has reduced the number of euthanized animals in the community by 90 percent, said Margot DeConna, the director of development for the shelter.  
After applying in May, the non-
proﬁ  t received the grant to help 
give its dogs and cats proper at-
tention.
The money will be used to pay 
for food, cleanings and medical 
expenses such as vaccinations, 
microchipping and sterilization 
surgery.
The shelter receives most of its 
funding from individual donors, 
but it also continually applies for 
grants to help fund its programs. “What’s really great about the 
funding from Petco is that it is 
general in nature,” DeConna said.  
“We are able to use it however we 
need to get these animals ready to 
be adopted.”
Due to warmer weather, kitten 
and puppy season is in full swing, 
creating more work for the shel-
ter, as well as other shelters in 
Gainesville, she said. 
DeConna said the shelter cur-
rently has about 215 animals be-tween foster pets and shelter resi-
dents.
The shelter encourages dona-
tions such as Dawn dish soap, 
bleach and paper towels to help 
prevent diseases, she said. Ala-
chua County residents can also 
volunteer at the shelter or foster an animal. 
“It really is a helpful and up-
lifting job, and, again, whenever 
you are having a bad day you 
can snuggle with some kittens or dogs,” DeConna said. “It is a real-ly fun and upbeat place to work.”
For the past two semesters, the 
national community service soror-
ity Omega Phi Alpha has partici-
pated in an ongoing project with 
the shelter, giving members a 
chance to volunteer. 
Iqra Ahmed, a member of the 
sorority and a volunteer at the shelter, said she was excited to 
hear about the grant because she 
knows how committed everyone is. 
“You can tell the people who 
work or volunteer there really care about making these pets happy and getting them to good homes,” said the 21-year-old UF environ-
mental science and marketing se-
nior. “It’s wonderful to hear that 
they’re getting money to be able to do that a little easier.”
For more information about 
the Alachua County Humane So-
ciety or the Petco Foundation, 
visit www.alachuahumane.org or www.petcofoundation.org.  Pet retailer provides Gainesville 
animal shelter with money boost 
By Daniel Hopin
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Jordan Meyers, 25, said the 
summer heat is causing the tires 
on his 2015 Chevrolet Suburban to constantly lose pressure. 
After he took the car to a 
mechanic, who didn’t ﬁ  nd any problems with the tires, Meyers started to believe temperature changes from day to night caused the problem.
“Every four or ﬁ  ve days the tire 
pressure is low,” he said. “There 
are no nails or anything.”
According to a recent press 
release from the American Auto-
mobile Association, Meyers is not 
alone.
The summer heat can also 
cause air to expand within the tires, increasing the risk of a blow-out, according to the report. Tires that are not inﬂ  ated enough can 
waste gasoline and increase the 
risk of tire damage. 
In a 2015 survey, the Rubber 
Manufacturers Association found 
that only 9 percent of cars had 
four properly inﬂ  ated tires, ac-
cording to the release.
Montrae Waiters, a spokes-
woman for AAA, said her or-ganization sees an increase in pressure-related incidents each summer, but she did not have an exact amount.  
“It goes back to motor educa-
tion,” Waiters said. “It’s as simple as checking your tire-pressure once a month.”
Gainesville mechanic Malcom 
Jerry, 28, said issues with tire-pressure are a common problem.
Jerry said inﬂ  ation issues could 
cause costly damage over time, or even cost a driver his or her life. 
“A lot of people are not in-
formed and not taught the impor-tance of air pressure,” he said.    Organization warns drivers of possible tire pressure woes 
Summer heat may cause problemsTHINGS TO KNOW:
• A car’s recommended tire-
pressure is found in the owner’s manual
• Check tire-pressure after the 
car has sat for at least three 
hours
• 69 percent of vehicles have at least one under-inﬂ  ated tire
More information is found at autoclubsouth.aaa.com
Alligator File Photo
Two kittens sit in a cage at the Alachua County Humane 
Society on Sept. 10, 2013. Unvaccinated cats are the domestic 
outdoor animals most at risk for developing rabies in the state.
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Jessica Rodriguez 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Every day for 19 years, Harry 
Bowley wore a white T-shirt to work.
Now, the 82-year-old Gainesville 
retiree has 309 T-shirts for nearly ev-
ery occasion and day of the year.
Around Christmas, he wears one 
of his 26 Christmas T-shirts. For Hal-loween, he dons one of 17 themed shirts instead of a costume. On St. 
Patrick’s Day, he has eight more to 
choose from. 
It began with his kids buying them as a gift, but now he says he buys any funny T-shirt he sees.
“It just started from there, and it 
got out of hand,” Bowley said.
The shirts vary from puns and 
national holidays to comedic quotes such as, “Money isn’t everything, but it sure keeps the kids in touch.”   
“I didn’t want the wife washing 
clothes every day, so I just started buying T-shirts,” he said.
Bowley and his wife have trav-
eled to 48 states and bought a shirt from each.
Any time he visits a local restau-rant, he checks if they have any T-shirts available for him, Bowley said. 
He saves other shirts for special 
occasions, like his tuxedo T-shirt for events at The Village at Gainesville, a retirement community where he lives. 
Every day, Bowley said he wears 
a different T-shirt, and everyone looks forward to seeing which one he picks.
“I’m glad I do it,” he said. 
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.orgOutﬁ  ts no issue for one local man 
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Harry Bowley, 82, also known as “T-shirt Harry, ” stands in front of his 309 T-shirt collection. 
It began with receiving shirts from his children, he said. Now he buys every funny shirt he sees.
By Jose Sanchez
Alligator Contributing Writer
For the past ﬁ  ve years, the 
Rahma Mercy Clinic has provided free medical care to low-income families in Gainesville. 
The clinic has received more 
than 1,000 patients who do not have health insurance. Located at 5220 SW 13th St., the clinic is open every Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Doctors and volunteers normally treat six to 10 patients per day.
Asad Haroon, one of the co-
ordinators at the clinic, said the 
clinic provides medical atten-
tion to patients who are seeking general checkups. Doctors treat people who have high blood pres-sure, weight issues, ﬂ  u, diabetes or psychological problems, such as depression or anxiety.
Patients have to ﬁ  ll out a form 
with basic information, includ-ing their address, phone number, blood type, gender, age and al-lergies, he said. The main focus of the medical staff is to serve the underserved, no matter their background.
The attendance of patients has 
decreased this year, Haroon said. It might be because more people are getting access to healthcare through the Affordable Care Act, and there are more non-proﬁ  t clin-ics opening in the community.
Nabeel Iqbal, a former volun-
teer of the clinic, said volunteers 
do not need a vast knowledge of 
medicine. Doctors and experi-enced volunteers teach newcom-ers how to manage the medical forms, weigh patients and check vital signs, such as measuring blood pressure and body tempera-ture.
Haroon and Iqbal said the clin-
ic receives ﬁ  nancial support from government funding and direct donations through a drop box at the clinic. Patients do not need to wait in long lines or schedule appointments to be assisted by a doctor. A person can come in as a walk-in patient and expect atten-tion from the staff.
“The fact that they were able to 
see a doctor in the same day that they wanted to, it was a big deal for them,” Iqbal said.
Raihan Noman, a volunteer 
at the clinic, said the only proto-col that volunteers need to follow when checking in patients is to de-termine whether they have health 
insurance. Patients do not need to 
show their Social Security number when they go to the clinic.
“We are just here to provide 
treatment if we can,” he said.
Noman said that the reputation 
of the clinic will grow thanks to the renovations, which will allow them to accommodate more pa-
tients and recruit more volunteers.
“I hope to see the clinic grow 
and become more well-known,” 
Noman said.  Gainesville citizens 
receive opportunity for free medical care 
“ We are just here to provide 
treatment if we can .”
Raihan Noman
Clinic volunteerThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Apocalypse now 
— but, like, for real 
this time
The end of the world: We tease the idea here in the opinions 
section every now and again. Like in our opening editorial of Sum-
mer A and C—we mentioned an apocalypse was sure to come because Ted Cruz and John Kasich dropped out of the Republican presidential primary. Well, here’s the thing: We may have cried 
wolf a little bit.
Put it this way, things have gotten so bad that Lionel Messi 
says he’s retiring from soccer. Messi! This is the man who is to 
soccer as Jeb Bush is to losing presidential elections. What’s next? Is Leonardo DiCaprio destined to spend another lifetime just to get another Oscar? (#PrayforLeo)
And our political news is even worse. Just look at this Brexit 
situation. Europe and Great Britain: America’s parents are getting divorced.
The time for panic may come, but this isn’t a certainty. Sure, 
Mom and Dad have been arguing, and they’ve threatened the household with divorce since October. They even slept in different bedrooms last night. But have they ﬁ  led the paperwork and actu-ally laid out a plan to live separately? No.
Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which assigns a ﬁ  rm two-year 
deadline to negotiations for a country’s divorce from the EU, has yet to be invoked by the U.K. And when Prime Minister David Cameron responded to the Brexit vote by announcing his resigna-
tion come October, he said, “I think it is right that this new prime 
minister take the decision about when to trigger article 50 and start the formal and legal process of leaving the EU.”
So, the soonest anything will ofﬁ  cially happen is October. 
Moreover, as The Intercept reported, when prominent Leave cam-paigner Boris Johnson joined the Leave campaign in February, he argued, “There is only one way to get the change we need, and that is to vote to go, because all EU history shows that they only really listen to a population when it says ‘No.’”
Such language, coupled with Johnson’s recent “No-need-for-
haste” rhetoric after the Brexit vote, suggests the campaign was designed more as a bluff, a negotiating tool for the U.K.
All this to say: we shouldn’t panic because nothing is set in 
stone. What we should do is get ready for a clusterfuck of emo-tions, legalease, cat ﬁ  ghting and passive aggressive stalemates… not all that different from an actual divorce. Or having your annoy-ing roommate spoil the most recent “Game of Thrones” episode.
Brexit wasn’t the only bad news for American politics. On Fri-
day, members of the Democratic Platform Drafting Committee voted on a series of amendments to the platform. If Brexit was Britain moving to divorce the EU, these voting outcomes were the Democratic Party’s move to divorce Progressive values.
Voting down a series of proposals by Bernie Sanders’ appoin-
tees, the committee failed to reject the TPP—a trade pact that Hillary Clinton denounced in rhetoric during the primary but sup-ported avidly as secretary of state. The committee also opposed $15 minimum wage indexed at inﬂ  ation, refused to acknowledge 
Israeli occupation of Palestine, opposed a carbon tax and rejected 
a national moratorium on fracking.
In fairness, the committee did vote in favor of reapplying Glass-
Steagall and rejected the death penalty, which are both fantastic proposals for progressives.
But with how this platform stands overall, it seems we should 
make preparations to host a vigil for Clinton as, “the progressive who likes to get things done,” and instead, ready ourselves for an ugly, mind-numbing general election between a monster and a 
centrist Republican disguised as a Democrat.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITORHello my dearest readers. To everybody 
returning to Gainesville, let me be the ﬁ  rst to welcome you back to our humble home. To all of the freshmen who just graduated from high school, don’t wor-
ry; the worst (the move-in process with crying mothers, silent fathers and impatient siblings) is behind you. Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Zach, but you can call me Zachary. I write a weekly op-ed column here in your soon-to-be most favorite newspaper, The Independent Florida Alligator. Congratulations on beginning your col-legiate journey by joining us in the wonderful, religiously drunken pilgrimage that is Summer B.
During your time here at UF, you’re going to meet a 
lot of new people. We here in Gainesville are very lucky to have such an eclectic bunch. You have many young people on and around campus, a thriving downtown area (and the infamous dumpster-smelling Midtown, as you’ll soon grow to un-ironically appreciate in all its wretched-ness) and a community of wonderful locals who really care about this city. Consequently, you are entering a world of diverse opinions and worldviews. I encourage you, in your next four years (ﬁ  ve for my kind of people) to explore those views and soak up all this potential new knowledge like a sponge. I also encourage you to re-ex-amine your own views, the ones you came here with and the ones you take for granted. The classroom is a great place to do this, but outside the classroom is where you’ll see this magic. While the rigidity and formal nature of classrooms and chalkboards may release sparks that ig-nite a curiosity, one of our 369 on-campus Starbucks (Star-buckses? Starbucks’s?) will provide the environment you want for a genuine conversation and discussion with one of our many fascinating people around campus (ignore the dancing bald dude in short shorts on University, he’s got nothing).Another great way to do this is to get in-
volved. I know one of the things they shove in your face during the cringe-worthy two days that is Preview is that we have like, a million student organizations. Politically, we have a group for everybody. Ranging from UF College Democrats to the “I can’t believe this is actu-ally a thing” UF Students for Trump (bye-bye half of my potential new readership), there’s an organization for you. We also have tons of interest-based student groups. We have LG-
BTQ+ clubs, environmental groups, health organizations, et cetera. There is a group of people here with the same interests as you, and more importantly, people here who can help you discover new interests to explore, practice and grow.
I won’t get into Student Government. I only have 
about a hundred words left in this column, and it would take me a lot more than that to express my distaste for the institution as a whole. If you want to get involved, I actually encourage civic participation on campus mat-ters. Just know that on both sides of the aisle (it’s not left versus right there, it’s Access Party versus Impact Party, but they’ll both probably change the names of the parties twice in your time here) don’t give a damn about your “experience” (at my high school, everybody in SG was the best on paper, according to everybody in SG) or any merit that warrants commendation. Shake the right hands, and you’ll make it here politically. Don’t worry about the workload as an SG member, the only work you’ll have to do is switching the 24-hour libraries every semester. Apart from that, nada.
Also, those lanyards are fucking cool. Wear those con-
stantly.
Zachary Lee is a philosophy senior, and encourages 
responsibility in all of the things you enjoy.
The Jungle: We got the fun, and some games 
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgGuest Colomn
Universities don’t teach the one concept 
most important in our world and in our personal lives.
That concept is love. Our world would be transformed 
for the better if each of us, including me, learned to live lives of love.
For two weeks, UF’s most iconic symbol, 
Century Tower, has been awashed in love.  Century Tower is lit with rainbow colors as a symbol of love, compassion and unity with the LGBTQ+ and Latinx communities follow-ing the heinous slaughter at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub. Today at 8:30 p.m., we will hold a commemoration and unity ceremony at Cen-
tury Tower.
In contrast to the hate displayed in the kill-
ing of 49 people on the morning of June 12, 
almost all cultures and religions have love for others as a guiding principle.  Philosophers call it the Law of Reciprocity or, more commonly, the Golden Rule, i.e., we should treat others as we would like others to treat us.  
However, my hope for the UF community 
and for myself is that our love will be more 
than simply the Golden Rule. My prayer is that 
even though there are no majors or required classes on the subject, we will learn to love un-conditionally, to love the undeserving and the unlovable, and to love even when it is not in our personal best interest.
The image of the rainbow colors shining on 
our beloved Century Tower is an unforgettable symbol of the beauty of love. I know my per-sonal life and our globe will be better when I 
leave no room in my heart for hate – but rather 
fill it with active love for all others, particularly those who think and look different from me.
Kent Fuchs is the president of UF. His col-
umn appears monthly.TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
UF President Kent Fuchs urges students to love and be kind to one another
Student Body President  Susan Webster addresses voting issues, changesLetters to the Editor
Hello, Gator Nation, and welcome to Summer B! 
As you all finish moving in and 
tweaking your schedules, I have some important developments to share with 
you in Student Government. 
This past weekend, Saturday, June 25, the 
Student Body Supreme Court met to discuss amendments to the Student Body constitu-tion dating back to 2008. In this process, they overturned a total of four amendments. These amendments include adding genetic informa-tion to the SG non-discrimination policy, num-bers of signatures for ballot referendums, on-line voting and numbers of senate seats.
What the Supreme Court ruled is that since 
2008, the Supervisors of Elections have been interpreting election results incorrectly. Ac-
cording to Student Body constitution article 
VIII, section 4, a proposal by initiative requires “a three-fifths approval vote of those voting in the spring general election.” The Supervisors of Elections incorrectly tabulated the votes, not considering abstention votes. When abstention votes were considered, each of the previous-ly mentioned initiatives failed. Additionally, article VIII, section 5, states, “The text of all amendments and the ballot summary shall be published in a campus-wide print media pub-lication one week before and on both days of the election.” As this did not occur, this section 
also renders these initiatives unconstitutional.
Particularly troubling for me after the ex-
citement surrounding the Spring election is the 
reversal of online voting. My running mates and I plan to follow through on our promise to make voting easy and accessible, and I will be working closely with the legislative branch in the coming weeks to move forward with these changes. I look forward to the conversations and debate in Student Senate on how to move forward from here. 
For those of you who want to learn more 
about this decision, I encourage you to reach 
out to the judicial branch and look for their de-
cision in the week to come.
As always, please feel free to reach out with 
any comments, questions or concerns. Enjoy the rest of your summer, and go Gators!
Susan Webster is the UF student body presi-
dent.
The United Kingdom’s referendum to leave the European Union, or the “Brexit,” as it has been affectionately called, has been a long time coming with strangely not a lot of attention throughout the world until it 
happened.
Brexit is the highlight of the greater anti-es-
tablishment zeitgeist that is gripping politics all around the world. As communications technol-ogies become more readily available, the voices of those that feel cheated them become more readily heard.
This came to a culmination in the U.K. as 
members of the conservative party not only ran successfully on the promise of a referendum, but actually initiated it as well leading to the slaying of the EU dragon.
Nobody has used the word dragon to de-
scribe the ever-complicated EU system but 
it was pitched as something similar, and the 
rhetoric is not unique to the U.K. We’ve been hearing it for nearly a year as the U.S. presi-dential election has been occurring, talk of the “establishment” as this giant monolithic entity that is destroying everything that everybody holds dear. In the British case, economic costs and protection from rampant immigration were reasons to abandon the EU entirely.But as I have written about before, this 
monolithic entity portrayed by political leaders lacks the nuance to deal with the problems that people actually elect these leaders for.
The EU does have problems, the most ap-
parent being its colossal bureaucracy and its lack of sovereignty over issues like immigration control.
The only problem is these are issues the 
U.K. could have fixed. The so-called overbear-ing regulations on products in the U.K. would still have to be implemented if it wanted to stay in the massive market of Europe. Also, the com-plaint of immigrants from the continent coming into the U.K. ignore the fact that British workers do the same thing, including all of those U.K. citizens who work in Brussels for the EU.
Brexit’s economic impact has been felt im-
mediately, but the actual separation from the 
EU will take at least two years. The U.K. and EU 
have to deal with some effects of the breakup, such as U.K. citizens living and working in Eu-rope, and current economic agreements.
But hey, at least they got their sovereignty 
back that they never really gave up, so that’s nice.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. 
His column appears on Tuesdays.
Was the Brexit worth it?  As with most questions, the answer is probably noColumn8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
9:15 p.m.
Donald Trump has hired a top communi-
cations consultant who worked on Sen. Ted Cruz’ unsuccessful presidential campaign. A Republican with knowledge of the hiring says 
Jason Miller will serve as Trump’s senior com-
munications adviser.
The Republican who conﬁ  rmed Miller’s hir-
ing was not authorized to speak publicly ahead of the announcement and did so on condition of anonymity.
Miller is a seasoned political communica-
tions operative. Prior to working for Cruz, Miller worked on the presidential campaign 
of former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and 
on South Carolina Rep. Mark Sanford’s bid for Congress.
Trump’s communications has been han-
dled by Hope Hicks, a loyal but inexperienced spokeswoman. The hire comes as Trump tries to build out his campaign for a general election and a week after ﬁ  ring campaign manager Co-rey Lewandowski.
4:33 p.m.Hillary Clinton says she knows some people 
don’t trust her.
The presumptive presidential Democratic 
nominee told a women’s luncheon crowd Monday in Chicago that she has work to do to earn trust that’s been damaged by a quarter century of “wild accusations” that aren’t true.
Clinton acknowledged making mistakes 
over the years, but didn’t spell them out during her speech to the largely black crowd. She says it may seem like she’s cautious with her words but that’s not because she’s hiding something. She says it’s because she thinks about what she’s going to say before she says it. That’s an implicit dig at Republican presidential candi-date Donald Trump, a more impulsive speaker.
4:05 p.m.Hillary Clinton says saving children from 
gun violence is a civil rights issue.
The presumptive Democratic presidential 
nominee addressed a women’s luncheon Mon-day hosted by the Rev. Jesse Jackson’s Rain-
bow/PUSH Coalition in Chicago. She called 
attention to gun violence in America’s third-largest city, including over 60 people shot dur-ing the Memorial Day weekend.
The largely black crowd included elected 
ofﬁ  cials and local leaders.
Clinton nodded to Jackson’s civil rights ef-
forts and drew parallels to Democrats’ sit-in over gun legislation on the U.S. House ﬂ  oor. 
She also played to President Barack Obama’s 
hometown crowd, praising economic gains during his tenure.
Jackson has endorsed Clinton and lauded 
her for ﬁ  ghting for racial justice and gender equality.
2:08 p.m.A Donald Trump ally is suggesting that 
Elizabeth Warren take a DNA test to clear up 
controversy over her heritage.
Former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown, 
who lost his Senate race to Warren in 2012, 
on Monday attacked Warren’s past claim of having Native American heritage. He made the comment during a Monday afternoon confer-ence call hosted by the Republican National Committee, responding to Warren’s appear-ance with Democrat Hillary Clinton earlier in 
the day.
Republicans claim that Warren fabricated 
her ethnic background to gain an employment 
advantage. Warren denies that. She says she heard about her heritage from family stories.
Trump regularly mocks Warren as, “Poca-
hontas.”
Brown, a vocal Trump supporter, said 
Clinton “is considering making someone vice president who has very serious character ﬂ  aws when it comes to honesty and credibility” in dealing with her heritage.
11:50 a.m.A new study says Donald Trump’s tax and 
budget plans would make the national debt skyrocket by $10 trillion or more over the com-ing decade, mostly because of expensive tax cuts.
The Committee for a Responsible Federal 
Budget also says Democrat Hillary Clinton’s agenda — which relies on tax increases to 
pay for proposals such as expanding Presi-
dent Barack Obama’s health care overhaul — would increase the debt by about $250 billion over 10 years.
Trump’s tax plans, which include lowering 
the top income tax bracket from 39.6 percent 
to 25 percent and the top corporate rate from 
35 percent to 15 percent, would add $9 trillion-plus to cumulative deﬁ  cits over a decade. Clin-ton would increase taxes by $1.25 trillion.
The nonpartisan group advocates for small-
er deﬁ  cits.
11:40 a.m.Bernie Sanders is calling the Supreme 
Court’s decision to strike down Texas’ regula-
tion of abortion clinics a “decisive victory for 
women across the country.”
The Democratic presidential candidate says  The latest on the US presidential campaign
AP Photo/Andrew Harnik
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, accompanied by Sen. Elizabeth 
Warren, D-Mass., arrives to speak at the Cincinnati Museum Center at Union T erminal in Cincinnati, Monday, June 27, 2016. 
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
in a statement that the Supreme 
Court reaffirmed that access to a “safe and legal abortion is a wom-an’s constitutional right,” and a right that cannot be prevented by “ex-
treme, Republican politicians.”
The justices voted 5-3 Monday 
in support of the Texas clinics that 
argued the regulations were an at-tempt to make it harder for women to get an abortion.
The Vermont senator says that 
the nation cannot go back to a time when “women in America did not 
have the right to control their own 
bodies.”
11:35 a.m.Retired NFL player Herschel 
Walker says he’s being dropped from speaking engagements because of his relationship with Donald Trump.
In an interview on the “TMZ 
Sports” TV show, the Heisman Trophy winner and former “Celeb-rity Apprentice” contestant said he’s 
known Trump “before he became 
‘The Donald.’” Walker said the pre-sumptive Republican nominee is not racist.
Walker told TMZ Sports “Just be-
cause you build a wall, doesn’t mean you’re a racist.”
Trump has faced sharp criticism 
for his statements on immigration 
and plan to build a wall along the 
U.S. border with Mexico.
11:05 a.m.Hillary Clinton is offering effu-
sive praise for Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren at their first event together during the presidential campaign, calling her someone who “tells it like it is.”
Clinton says in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
that Warren has worked on behalf 
of hard-working Americans, trying 
to ensure that Wall Street “never wrecks” Main Street again and the federal government doesn’t profit off student loans.
The Democratic presidential can-
didate says she also loves to see how Warren “gets under Donald Trump’s thin skin.” That’s a nod to Warren’s 
recent role as one of Trump’s most 
vocal critics.
Clinton says that Trump “proves 
every day he’s not in it for the Amer-ican people, he’s in it only for him-self.”10:55 a.m.Hillary Clinton is taking the stage 
with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who is calling Clinton a fighter who “has never backed 
down.”
Clinton and Warren joined hands 
and waved to a cheering crowd in 
their first joint appearance. Warren told the crowd in Cincinnati, Ohio, “I’m here today because I’m with her,” and said Democrats would “work our hearts out” to make Clin-ton president.
Warren is offering a harsh cri-
tique of Republican Donald Trump. She says he looks “goofy” in his trademark baseball cap. She warns that Trump “will crush you into the dirt to get whatever he wants.”Warren is a darling of liberals in 
the Democratic Party and considered a possible running mate for Clinton.
10:35 a.m.Hillary Clinton says the Supreme 
Court’s ruling to strike down Texas’ regulation of abortion clinics is “a victory for women in Texas and across America.”
The justices voted 5-3 Monday 
in support of the Texas clinics that argued the regulations were an at-tempt to make it harder for women to get an abortion.
Clinton says the “fight isn’t over,” 
adding that the “next president has to protect women’s health. Women won’t be ‘punished’ for exercising their basic rights.”BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. available 7/1/16 & 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed in-ternet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   6-30-16-4-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-4-16-13-1
1 room, furnished, sliding glass doors to small privacy fenced back yard patio (du-plex). One female student roommate, dish-washer, washer/dryer in unit 2.5 miles from UF. High-spd internet included in $325 rent. 352 631 0737       7-26-16-10-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for 
August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry....  1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        6-30-16-6-2
6 BLOCKS FROM UF3BR/2BA w/ double sinks. All appliances in-cluding DW, W/D. Patio, 3 reserved parking places. $1200/mo. Call Claudette @ 352-359-5584   7-28-16-10-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Housemate wanted to share a lovely pool home in a beautiful safe area. You'd have 2BRs & pvt BA. Female preferred but not nec-essary. Call 352-214-6512 afternoons for more details.    6-30-6-4
1-2bd $325 shared ba, $375 own ba in 3/2 home. Peaceful 7.5 acres w oaks <10 mins to UF, Shands, Publix & shops! Spanish speakers encouraged. jrfong00@yahoo.com or txt 352.284.2654     7-28-16-10-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
For Sale - 1Bedroom/1 Bathroom,Renovated Ground floor unit, Ride the bus or bike to UFAsking $61,500352-234-3018 for info       7-7-5-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
LP VINYL BLOWOUT SALE!
400+ records $2-$5 (or 10/$18): blues/ 50s 
r+r / country/1960-80 artist/ jazz/big band (+ 
45s/78s). Waldo Antique Village, 17805 U.S. 301 
(352.468.3111). BOOTH MJC. Show ad=10% off 
$20+ other MJC items (except "firm").    7-5-8-10
BRITANNICA - 31 VOLUMES
1988 edition. Blue leather w/ gilt title. Mint 
condition. $160. Call 377-6651    6-28-16-
1-10  
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
WHITE PEACE SPORT 2015
With storage, 346 miles. Asking $1000 OBO Call 409-988-1505    7-5-16-5-111For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedUnload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $1999
91 Lexus LS400 $1999
01 Lincoln LS $1999
01 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999
352-338-1999                      8-15-25-1203 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     7-14-16-7-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
8-15-25-13
Plannig to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich at Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191      7-14-16-7-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meet-
ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
Full time -plus over the summer
WordPress Website Developer 
Expertise in web development
and interface design
Strong knowledge in WordPress
Proficiency with responsive web design
SEO proficiency with friendly techniques
Ability to write website documentation
Experience with e-commerce
Active social media user
Experience with Adobe Creative Suite
Please forward your resume to
hr@gleim.com
6-28-16-6-14
Motorcycle Parts Personneeded Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9am-5pm and Sunday 11am-5pm. Must be a team player and have motorcycle endorse -
ment. We will train the right person but parts knowledge is a plus. Please email resume' to todd@gainesvilleharley.com    6-28-16-5-14
FT/PT Customer Service Representatives 
needed. Must be 18+, and have a computer with internet service and a landline tele-phone. Guaranteed at least 15 hrs/wk. Call 1(8444) 539-8735.    6-30-16-6-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com      7-5-16-5-14
NOW HIRING for SUMMER '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
6-30-16-3-14
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
F/T receptionist for busy law firm. 
Communication, attention to detail, and multi-tasking skills a must. Previous experi-ence a plus. Send resume tocarrillolawoffice@gmail.com      7-14-16-6-14
The Village at Gainesville Career Fair
North Florida Retirement Village
is hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!
Come out to our Career Fair on June 29th
from 9am - 2pm to learn more about
our employment opportunities.
We are seeking Nurses, C.N.As, 
Companions, Servers/Kitchen Porters,
Cooks, and Painters.
We are located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd.,
Gainesville, FL 32606. Please apply online
at www.thevillageonline.com/careers.
6-30-16-2-14
Grad- or Med-Student wanted for PT assis-
tance or live-in w/ elderly man. Light shop-ping, light cleaning required. Access to golf course, country club & pool provided. Fees discussed @ interview. Call 386-518-6898    7-12-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-25-15
Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
FREE GRE WORKSHOP.  UF Teaching Center offers this workshop M - R, 7/11-7/14 from 5-7 p.m. Verbal sessions are M & W; Math sessions are T & R.  Go to www.teach-ingcenter.ufl.edu, then “study skills” then workshops” to register.      7-7-4-20
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!
Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classiﬁ  eds!
ACROSS
1 Official on a
baseline
4 “Cheers”
mixologist
9 Warehouse club
with 652
locations
13 “Cheers” location14 Place for a
queen
15 Request
16 Alter __17 *1977 Hitchcock
parody
19 Turn in for cash
21 Smooth
transitions
22 Laptop port
letters
23 Air gun shot26 “Wrong!”27 Muslim holy city29 Go for eagerly,
as a chance
31 “All bets __ off”
32 Tanzania
neighbor
34 Self-satisfied38 Broadcast
39 As if in shock
41 Ambient music
pioneer Brian
42 Suburb of
Phoenix
44 Remington 700s,
e.g.
45 British “Inc.”46 Journalist Chung48 Boxcar
stowaways
50 Amassed, as
debts
53 Fast sports cars54 Incoming flight
info: Abbr.
55 Hams it up57 Green Giant’s
“Little Green”
buddy
60 *1976 parody of
pre-talkies
64 Tip jar bill65 Slanted type:
Abbr.
66 Insult67 Kipling’s young
spy
68 The Big Apple, in
addresses
69 Rides the 
breeze
70 Gas additive
brandDOWN
1 Transportation
network app
2 Ancient sorcerer
3 *With “The,” 1968
parody of
dishonest
Broadwayfinanciers
4 Caprice5 Email suffix6 “Awesome!”7 Paternity suit
evidence, briefly
8 Longings9 Cask outlets
10 Alaskan native11 Allots, with “out”
12 Authority
14 Shakespearean
nickname
18 TV princess
played by LucyLawless
20 PC “oops” key23 *With 25-Down,
1974 Western
parody
24 Dental coverage,
e.g.
25 See 23-Down
27 Address to a lady
28 Buffalo’s county
and lake
30 Washed-out33 Alert
35 Born 6/28/1926,
director of the
answers to
starred clues
36 Golden rule word37 Saturn and Mars40 Like a fork in the
road
43 With keen
perception
47 Welcoming store
window sign49 Hockey great
Bobby
50 Pine secretion51 Island in “Jaws”
52 Strikeout king Ryan
56 Put in a hold57 Transgressions
58 Mile or minute
59 Weather Channel
stat
61 Juilliard deg.
62 Inaccurate
63 Boxer fixer
By Jeffrey Wechsler and Jason M. Chapnick©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/28/1606/28/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 28, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 19 Connections 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
PRESERVE WATER
TICK.TOCK.
Reduce your showertimeby 2 min.
06/28/16
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
xwordeditor@aol.com
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Former UF swimmers Conor 
Dwyer and Elizabeth Beisel 
will represent team USA in the Olympics, and more former Gators could follow. Read the story on pg. 14.UF opens academic center for student athletes
UF unveiled the Otis Hawkins Center at Farrior Hall on Monday, a $25 mil-
lion academic center to be utilized byabout 500 UF student athletes. The 
building is located across the street from the student infirmary and the Stu-dent Recreation Center. Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Alex Faedo pitches during Florida's 3-0 loss to Florida State in Game 1 of the NCAA Super Regionals on June 
11. Faedo, who led the Gators in strikeouts this season, will likely headline UF's pitching staff next year.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
The ball was low, but Peter Alonso swung.
It left his bat and soared over the left-field wall at 
TD Ameritrade Park, and with Florida trailing by three 
runs in the bottom of the ninth inning in the College 
World Series, Alonso’s two-run homer brought the Gators within one run.
“It gave us hope,” Alonso said.
It was the last time UF would score this season.
After Alonso trotted around the bases, JJ Schwarz 
struck out, Mike Rivera popped out, and Jonathan In-dia was tagged out trying to reach second base after his hit fell deep in left field.
No. 1 seed Florida (52-16) was eliminated from the 
College World Series last Tuesday after losing 3-2 to Texas Tech (47-19).
“Of course we’re disappointed, of course we want 
to stay here longer,” UF coach Kevin O’Sullivan said after the game. “We’ve been here five out of the last 
seven (years), and we’ll be here again soon.”
Florida’s season ended in disappointing fashion, as 
the Gators lost two-straight games to open the CWS, 
sending UF back to Gainesville much earlier than ex-
pected.
During last year’s posteason, Florida made it to 
the semifinals of the CWS before falling to eventual 
champion Virginia, even with a pitching staff that was considerably less dominant.
In 2015, UF’s pitchers combined for a 3.18 ERA. In 
2016, UF finished sixth in the nation with a 2.91 ERA. 
This year, the Gators struck out over 100 more bat-
ters than last year (555 to 671) and gave up less runs (247 to 221) and hits (532 to 514).Florida's  season ends after winless showing at CWS
UF finished with two straight losses 
MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After not being one of the 
60 players selected in the NBA 
Draft on Thursday night, former Florida basketball player Dorian Finney-Smith finally landed on a team.
According to Kevin Brockway 
of the Gainesville Sun, Finney-Smith agreed to a partially-guar-anteed deal with the Dallas Mav-ericks. On Sunday, Finney-Smith posted a picture of him and the Dallas Mavericks logo to his Ins-tagram account.
The former Florida forward 
averaged 14.7 points and 8.3 rebounds per game in his final season at Florida, and was a pivotal 
piece in the Gators’ 2014 Final Four run.
In his first year at Florida 
after transferring from Virginia Tech, Finney-Smith was named the Southeastern Conference Sixth Man of the Year and led the team in rebounds before the Gators fell to eventual national champion UConn.
Finney-Smith was named 
to the All-SEC second team in each of his next two seasons, also leading Florida in points per game.
If Finney-Smith secures a spot 
on the Mavericks for the 2016-17 season, he’ll be joining a front-court that could include two for-mer Gators. 
Former Florida forward Chan-
dler Parsons signed with Dallas in 2014 but will become a free agent on Friday. The Mavericks also signed former UF forward/center David Lee on Feb. 22 after Lee was released from the Bos-ton Celtics.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
Undrafted Finney-Smith signs 
deal with Dallas Mavericks
Finney-Smith
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Five future Florida athletes in 
two sports advanced to high-level 
competitions over the weekend. 
In track and field, incoming 
freshmen Connor Bandel and Noah 
Lyles both advanced to the Interna-
tional Association of Athletics Fed-erations’ World Junior Champion-ships — the pinnacle of competition for younger track and field athletes — with easy wins. 
Bandel out-tossed the next-clos-
est competitor by 13.3 feet in the discus throw to make team USA, 
while Lyles’ 10.08 mark in the 
100-meter dash beat the runner up by nearly two tenths of a second. 
Meanwhile, in gymnastics, three 
future Gators made the U.S. Gym-nastics Olympic Team Trials. 
Amelia Hundley, Alyssa Bau-
mann and Rachel Gowey placed sixth, seventh and ninth, respec-tively, in a preliminary competition, advancing to the final trials to be held on July 8 and 10. 
Fifteen total gymnasts will com-
pete in San Jose, California, for five available spots on the U.S. team that will go to the Rio Olympics. 
Of the three future Florida fresh-
men, Hundley’s score of 115.550 was about one point away from fifth-place Madison Kocian at the preliminary event. 
First place was claimed by 
heavy-favorite Simone Biles, who beat Hundley by about 10 points.
 
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgTrack, gym recruits find 
success before FloridaSEE BASEBALL,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
Tuesday: 
Elizabeth Beisel: 200-meter freestyle, individual medley. 
Wednesday: 
Caeleb Dressel: 100-meter freestyle
Ryan Lochte: 100-meter freestyleConor Dwyer: 100-meter freestyle Elizabeth Beisel: 200-meter butterfly
Thursday: 
Ryan Lochte: 200-meter backstroke, 200-meter individual medley Conor Dwyer: 200-meter individual medley Friday:Caeleb Dressel: 50-meter freestyle, 100-meter butterflyRyan Lochte: 100-meter butterflyElizabeth Beisel: 200-meter backstroke, 800-meter freestyle
Saturday:
Arthur Frayler: 1500-meter freestyle 
Note: Only athletes seeded 20th or 
higher on a given day were included on this list. List only applies to preliminary races. GATORS TO WATCH  in Olympic swimming qualifying racesBy Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Two former Florida swimmers 
have made the U.S. Olympic roster 
so far, and Ryan Lochte isn’t one of them. 
Former Olympic medalists Eliza-
beth Beisel and Conor Dwyer both advanced to Rio with second place finishes in their respective events. 
Meanwhile, Lochte, an 11-time 
Olympic medalist, was edged out in 
the 400 individual medley on Sun-
day by a pair of Georgia Bulldogs (Chase Kalisz and Jay Litherland), knocking him down to third and out of the Olympics in the event. 
After the race, Lochte said he 
had been dealing with a groin inju-ry. He still has six chances to make the Olympics as an individual.
Beisel took American silver in 
the women’s 400-meter individual medley, clocking in about 3 seconds behind winner Maya DiRado. Dw-yer finished less than a second be-hind Connor Jaeger in the 400-me-
ter free, but beat the next-closest 
swimmer by about one second.
For Beisel, Rio will mark her third-consecutive Olympic appear-ance, the first of which came when she was 15. In her most-recent ap-pearance at the 2012 Games in Lon-don, she won silver in the 400-me-ter individual medley and a bronze medal in the 200-meter backstroke. 
Dwyer will be making his sec-
ond-consecutive appearance in the Olympics, having won a gold medal in London as part of a first-place 4x200-meter freestyle relay team that featured Ricky Berens, Lochte 
and Michael Phelps.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgTwo former Florida swimmers headed to Rio for OlympicsNotable Changes for UF Baseball
Departures
LHP A.J. Puk
RHP Dane DunningRHP Logan ShoreOF Buddy Reed1B Peter AlonsoRHP Shaun AndersonLHP Scott MossLHP Kirby Snead
Returnees
C Mike Rivera
DH JJ Schwarz
RHP Alex Faedo
SS Dalton Guthrie2B Deacon Liput3B Jonathan India
OF Danny Reyes
OF Nelson MaldonadoEntering this year's tournament 
as a No. 1 national seed and with the 
SEC’s lowest ERA and the league’s second-most home runs (53), Flori-da had a dip in production.
“We just fell short,” junior first baseman Peter Alonso said. 
“I know a lot of us put our heart 
and soul into every pitch. And it was the goal to win a national champion-ship. And it feels terrible.”
Florida lost eight players to the 
MLB Draft, all of whom will likely go pro. 
Of the eight, six were pitchers.“We fell a little short, but I cer-
tainly am proud of the way we 
played this year,” O’Sullivan said. 
“The fact of the matter is we had a hell of a year.”
Florida will return several key 
members of their infield, including designated hitter JJ Schwarz, catcher Mike Rivera, shortstop Dalton Guth-rie, second baseman Deacon Liput and third baseman Jonathan India.
Right-handed sophomore Alex 
Faedo will also return, and will like-ly become UF’s new Friday or Satur-day night starter. 
Faedo went 13-3 with a 3.18 ERA 
and led Florida with 133 strikeouts this season“We’ve got a good core coming 
back,” O’Sullivan said. 
“We’ve got to get better in a cou-
ple areas, and I fully intend to make that happen.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org
BASEBALL,  from pg13The Gators lost eight players to the draft, including six pitchers
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
ABOVE: 
Coach Kevin O'Sullivan (left) meets with his players during Florida's 3-0 loss to Florida State in Game 
1 of the NCAA Super Regionals on June 11 at McKethan Stadium.
RIGHT: 
Peter Alonso starts to run after making contact with the ball during Florida's 3-0 loss to FSU. Alonso was selected by the New York Mets with the 64th pick in the 2016 MLB Draft on June 9.
TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   1516   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 28, 2016
When the news that the UK voted 
to leave the European Union broke 
on Thursday, my Twitter feed was predictably ﬂ  ooded with tweets about it. But those tweets were 
contrasted with a different type of 
140-character blurb. 
The annual NBA Draft happened 
to be going on when the brexit news broke, and because I follow so many sports writers on social media, every seventh or eighth tweet contained something about the draft.
And through those draft-related 
tweets, juxtaposed against sentences struggling to outline the potential economic devastation that could re-sult from the world-altering brexit decision, sports writers looked their stupidest. 
Because instead of stepping back 
for a moment and contemplating the possibility that something — any-
thing — might be more important 
than former Florida basketball player Dorian Finney-Smith going undraft-ed, some chose to continue throwing out obscure statistics that were ac-centuated in the most negative way possible by the light of consequential world events. 
Many will say they just have a job 
to do when they ignore such events. 
I get that — I do. On the day of 
the Orlando shooting, I had to cover a baseball game that night. And I tweeted about the baseball game that night. 
But what I didn’t do — as some 
sports folks did — was pretend that nothing had happened. I re-tweeted about the massacre throughout the day and before the game started, I acknowledged how inconsequential it was in the larger scheme of the 
world. 
That’s because there’s this old 
cliche that I’ve come to detest in my 
time as a sports writer — the idea that sports writers should stick to sports. 
It’s complete crap.Sports writers, like anyone else 
on social media, are people. People 
have opinions. But some in the 
sports world don’t believe in sharing their opinions (unless they’re sports related) because it’s not their job — it’s not the reason people follow them.
But it seems, then, that sports 
writers can do no right.
On one hand, they’ll receive back-
lash from people who only want to hear about sports — people who use sports as a way to escape impending crises and depressing news. 
On the other hand, they’ll hear it 
from people — like me — who be-lieve that there are times when sports should be treated like a winter coat: stuffed into a closet and brought out 
only when the time is right. 
And instead of taking the side 
of humanity — the side of compas-
sion, understanding and evidence of thought beyond football — some people choose to be robotic and ap-pear uninformed.
Again, “I just have a job to do,” they’ll say. 
No. No one “just” has a job to do. Whether a software engineer, a 
commercial airline pilot or a sports 
writer, people in general have com-
mitments outside of work — friends, family, events — that add meaning to their lives. 
And in times of tragedy, dev-
astation or change, the appropri-ate response from sports media-ites shouldn’t be isolation in a bubble of sports, but embrace of the world around them. 
Because yes, they have a job to 
do. 
But not just a job to do. Ethan Bauer is the Assistant 
Sports Editor. You can contact him at ebauer@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @ebaueri.  
 In times of crisis and uncertainty, put sports aside 
Richard Drew / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
The Twitter logo appears at the New York Stock Exchange on Friday, June 17.  The growth of social media 
has allowed everyone with a Twitter account to express his or her views, especially in times of crisis. 
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueriSWEET AND BAUER