We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 85 THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
Freshman ﬁ  lling role of departed 
senior for UF gymnastics 
Alicia Boren took second in all-around 
against UCLA, pg. 17
Community looks to save rock gym
They’ve raised $9,900, pg. 3
UF group discusses period shaming, 
tampon taxes
It was held Wednesday, pg. 5Check out the Avenue 
Album reviews, music concerts 
and mediocre advice, pgs. 9-13
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
This year’s State of the City Address 
focused on one point: make Gainesville 
citizen-focused. 
During Mayor Ed Braddy’s speech on 
Wednesday in the Gainesville Police De-partment’s Hall of Heroes, Braddy said the city accomplished a lot during 2015, and he vowed to ﬁ  ght for citizens in the new year.
“The love of the city is evident, not just 
in the actions we’ve taken, but in the pas-sion of our pursuit,” Braddy said.
The address was divided among nine speakers, including Braddy, who recount-
ed a year of the city’s achievements to an 
audience of approximately 80 people.
These achievements included a more 
uniﬁ  ed City Commission, slightly lower Gainesville Regional Utilities rates and eco-
nomic development.
Speeches also included plans for the fu-
ture, which interim City Manager Anthony 
Lyons shared as the ﬁ  rst speaker.
After praising the city for opening Sweetwater Wetlands Park, he congratu-
lated GPD Police Chief Tony Jones for 
scheduling a town hall meeting on Jan. 27, where he will discuss reorganizing the de-partment.
He also said the city’s goal was to be-
come more citizen-focused, meaning that local government works for the people to  provide them with opportunities and ad-Mayor delivers State of the City Address
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
WALKING TALL
Hugh Chin, an 18-year-old UF mechanical engineering freshman, walks through the shadows cast by 
the pillars outside the Computer Science and Engineering building on Wednesday afternoon.
FAMIL Y, FRIENDS MOURN 
DEATH OF UF FRESHMAN.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Wesley Michael Spano loved playing base-
ball.
Years of learning the game from his father 
and brother led to playing as a pitcher for his 
high school team.
In college, Wesley dreamed of earning a walk-on spot with UF’s baseball team.
That opportunity never came.“It just feels like something’s missing,” his 
brother, Alec Spano, said. “You’re not really supposed to lose a brother that young.”
On Jan. 13, Spano found his brother out-
side Trusler Hall after he took his own life at the age of 19.
      
Wesley and his brother could have been 
twins.They were born a year apart, but their ap-
pearance and interests were nearly identical.
“When we were younger, we pretty much 
spent the whole day together,” Spano, a UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, said.
The son of Michael Spano and Laura 
Hirsch, Wesley was born on Sep. 25, 1996, and lived in Hollywood, Florida.
At Saint Thomas Aquinas High School in 
Fort Lauderdale, Wesley competed on the 
same ﬁ  eld where his brother once played.He spent one season playing junior-varsity 
baseball before joining the varsity team for his ﬁ  nal two seasons.  
As the team’s main relief pitcher — the 
pitcher who typically plays in the ﬁ  nal in-
nings of game — Wesley was often the last 
player an opposing team faced.
He relied on a strong left arm and a trio of 
pitches as he went through the motions.  
“It’s one of those things that, as a brother, 
you’re very proud of,” Spano said. “He just “I would just say, ‘I love you’”By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Impact Party announced its 
candidates for Student Govern-
ment’s Spring 2016 elections Wednesday afternoon on the Reitz Union North Lawn.
To a crowd of about 200, Im-
pact Party President Will Smith announced Susan Webster, 22, 
as the party’s candidate for Stu-
dent Body president. Joining her on the party’s executive ticket are Brendon “BJ” Jonassaint, 21, for Student Body vice presi-dent, and Kishan Patel, 20, for Student Body treasurer.
 Access will be formally an-
nouncing their candidates today 
through an online video on the 
Access Party Facebook page.
Kalyani Hawaldar, 21, will 
be running as the party’s Stu-dent Body president. Hammaad Saber, 22, is joining her as the Student Body vice president, and Lillian Rozsa, 20, is running for Student Body treasurer.  
Elections will be Feb. 16 and 
17 from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
The positions of Student 
Body president, Student Body 
vice president, Student Body 
treasurer and 50 student sena-tors, who will represent their academic year (freshman, soph-omore or graduate student) or academic colleges, will be elect-ed for a one-year term.
Students who want to run, 
or slate, with a party can sign 
up Sunday from noon to 6 p.m., 
Monday from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. or Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand Ball-room.
Editors note: Turn to page 8 
to see the candidates.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.orgSG parties announce 
executive candidatesSEE CITY,  PAGE 4
SEE EPILOGUE,  PAGE 4There were nine speakers
STUDENT GOVERNMENTSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Words on Canvas: Harn Museum 
Writing Competition
Words on Canvas is a yearly 
writing competition at the 
Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested in inspiring museumgoers by 
writing poetry or prose con-
nected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College stu-dents are welcome to partici-pate. Winning contestants will 
be awarded Harn merchandise, 
and students may submit until Feb. 21. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more infor-
mation, please visit our web-
site at harn.ufl.edu/wordson-canvas.
Condom Accessory Design 
Challenge for Sex in the Swamp 2016Grab a friend, get creative and transform condoms into the 
next must-have accessory. 
As part of its Sex in the Swamp event on Feb. 18, the Alpha Lamba Chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma is hosting a condom 
accessory design challenge. 
Each first-place winning team member will receive a Fitbit Flex Wireless Activity & Sleep 
Wristband. Teams of one to 
three current UF students must register for the challenge by Jan. 29, and the design must be completed by 5 p.m. Feb. 
16. For more information and 
to register a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2016/01/12/condom-accessory-design-challenge/.
GatorNights
GatorNights will host a Reitz Royale-themed event Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the 
Reitz Union. The event will 
feature human roulette, poker and blackjack tables, and a UF Club Creole pageant. The event 
will also feature two showings 
of “The Intern” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free is-
land-style food during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate. 
Students are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Roe v. Wade anniversary and benefit showThe Gainesville Chapter of 
National Women’s Liberation 
invites you to join us for a Roe v. Wade anniversary and bene-fit show Friday at the Hardback Cafe. Although many believe it 
was solely this decision (via 
the Supreme Court) that gave us the right to abortion in the U.S., in reality it was years of 
struggle and grassroots orga-
nizing led by ordinary people that won this victory. Come learn more about the contin-ued fight for abortion and birth 
control rights, enjoy some great 
music and financially support the movement. Doors open at 8 p.m., and admission is $5 to 
$15 as a sliding-scale donation.
Apply Now for 2016-2017 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-
plete the Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid at fafsa.ed.gov. You can file a FAFSA as early as Jan. 1 each year. 
UF’s “On-Time” deadline to re-
ceive the results of your FAFSA from the federal processor is March 15. Apply well before March 15 to ensure the federal 
processor has time to analyze 
and send the results of your FAFSA to the UF Office for Student Financial Affairs. 
Financial aid is awarded on a 
first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most — and best — aid. 
In order for the Office for 
Student Financial Affairs to consider you for a financial aid package, you must be an ad-
mitted student and have met 
the “On-Time” deadline. For more information or assistance completing your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your fi-
nancial aid adviser. 
For contact information, visit sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa.
Weekend Warrior: Indoor Cycle 
Summit
Come to RecSports on Saturday 
from 1 p.m. 2 p.m. for the Weekend Warrior. 
This Weekend Warrior will 
focus on the Indoor Cycle Summit. There is no registra-tion necessary. 
It will take place at SWRC Rec 
Room 1. This interactive ses-sion will address common questions of cycling as well as how to integrate cycling into your workout routine.
Friday Program @ Krishna 
House
Come and attend this week's 
Friday Program at Krishna 
House to learn about "Love — 
The Ultimate Need." 
The program starts at 7 p.m. 
with mantra meditation fol-
lowed by an ice breaker ses-
sion and Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week com-plete with eternal knowledge 
by attending Friday Program 
at Krishna House. No registra-tion required. Come directly at 7 p.m. Please join us at Krishna 
House, 214 NW 14th St.
interACT
The UF Center for Arts in 
Medicine and Sexual Trauma/
Interpersonal Violence 
Education are offering a week-end retreat for UF students in-terested in learning more about 
the work of theater revolution-
ary Augusto Boal and his in-ternationally acclaimed Forum theatre. InterACT intensive training will be Jan. 30 from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. and Jan. 31 from 
9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. InterACT is a nationally renowned social justice performance troupe 
based out of California. For 
more information, email jeff-puf@ufl.edu .
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.
org. 
To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, 
and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 85
HIGH  72° LOW  52°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors  Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  Kristine Janata, Michael Smith, 
  Joshua Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Christian Mayorga, Rodrigo    
  Noguerol, Isabella Rodriguez
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Eugenia Blaubach
Alligator Contributing Writer
For 18-year-old Jordan Rob-
itaille, there’s nothing better than 
scaling up a 45-degree wall with-
out a harness.
Robitaille joined the Gainesville 
Rock Gym seven years ago, but 
now he’s forced to climb the wall 
he built during high school in his 
parent’s garage.
On Dec. 14, Robitaille traveled 
to the gym expecting to help with minor repairs on a wall.
Instead, the familiar padded 
carpet was removed — exposing cracked slabs of concrete and a wall sinking into the foundation.
“This was totally out of the 
blue,” he said. “Nobody had seen it coming.”
Co-owner of the gym Ken 
Hyneman said GSE Engineering 
and Consulting, Inc. inspected 
the building three days later and decided it wasn’t safe for occu-pancy.
“We feel fortunate that we 
uncovered it (the damage) when we did. It could have been much worse if we hadn’t,” Hyneman 
said.
As revenue halted, business 
expenses piled up. On Dec. 21, 
the gym started a fundraiser on GoFundMe to cover business 
loans, utilities and insurance. 
Hyneman said the building owner is responsible for repairing the damages.
As of press time, more than 
160 supporters donated a total of 
about $9,900 toward the gym’s 
goal of $100,000.
“We are incredibly humbled 
by the outpouring of support that we’ve had from all of our mem-bers within the community,” he said.
Aside from the GoFundMe, 
First Magnitude Brewing Compa-ny is hosting a fundraiser Sunday. Several other fundraisers are list-ed on the gym’s Facebook page.
Hyneman said First Magnitude 
owners Meg The Losen and her 
husband, Wells The Losen, are 
longtime friends of the gym. He said their son, Jacob, is part of the gym’s youth-climbing team.
“We really care about the com-
munity,” Hyneman said. “We are seeing that the community cares about us too, and that’s a beauti-ful thing.”
Hyneman said the gym might 
open the front half of its facility to bring in more money. He also hopes to keep up with expenses 
and open the gym in about two 
months, but, in the meantime, nearby gyms have shown sup-port.
Sun Country Sports Center in 
Jonesville and The Edge Rock Gym in Jacksonville are offering reduced rates to Gainesville Rock Gym members who were regis-
tered for the Spring semester.
Robitaille commuted to the 
Jacksonville gym three times a 
week after the gym closed.
“I start itching if I don’t climb,” 
he said. Community looks to save rock gym 
LEFT:
Portions of the concrete slab 
foundation show signs of deterioration in need of repair.
BELOW:
Pictured is the sunken foundation of the Gainesville Rock Gym, at 704 S. Main St., which has been closed since Dec. 17, 2015, after the discovery of the damage. A 2-by-4 is shown to illustrate the depth of the sunken ﬂ  oor.  
Photos by Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
They’ve raised $9,900
“W e are seeing that the 
community cares about us too, 
and that’s a beautiful thing.”
Ken Hyneman
Co-owner of Gainesville 
Rock Gymtook over after I left.”
Away from the field, Wesley 
performed at weddings and birth-
days as the owner of a disc jockey 
company.
And despite a packed sched-
ule outside of school, Wesley still 
achieved a nearly perfect high 
school GPA of 3.9, which gave him a weighted GPA of about 5.2.
After serving on the National 
Honor Society and the Spanish 
Honor Society, Wesley graduated 
summa cum laude.
He was later accepted to UF, 
making him one step closer to play-
ing baseball on Perry Field.
•   •   •
Looking toward the Spring se-
mester, Wesley had a lot on his 
plate.
Along with athletic dreams, Wes-
ley balanced the rigorous schedule that comes with being a computer science major, Spano said.  
“He was walking onto the base-
ball team — he wasn’t sleeping. He was eating a lot of food to put on weight,” Spano said. “There were a lot of factors that probably played 
into it.”
Wesley was looking to the fu-
ture.He and his brother spoke for the 
last time near Christmas and made plans to share an apartment during 
the next semester.
Before their plans were realized, 
Spano found Wesley in his pickup 
truck.
Minutes later, Spano fought 
back tears and called Wesley’s 
roommate, Stephen Gainesburg.
“When I heard him speaking 
like that, I became very worried,” Gainesburg, a 17-year-old UF busi-ness freshman, said.
Gainesburg said Wesley was 
missing since Tuesday morning.
“The next morning when I woke 
up, he still wasn’t there,” he said. “And that’s when I began to get worried.”
After Wesley’s death, Gaines-
burg went home to Fort Lauder-dale, where he plans to stay a few weeks before returning.
Gainesburg said Wesley wanted 
to put a smile on everyone’s face.
“Sometimes, obviously, he for-
got to make sure he had one on his,” Gainesburg said.
•   •   •
During Wesley’s wake, about 
1,200 people paid their respects.
At Saint Thomas, it was a tra-
dition to give players poker chips before a playoff game. Then, before the game started, the players would 
give back their chips to show each 
other they were “all in,” Spano said.
Wesley was buried with a blue 
poker chip in his coffin, he said.
After the funeral, the crowd of 
about 700 people walked from the church to a nearby baseball field. Some of his former coaches re-
leased 19 blue, yellow and orange 
balloons to symbolize each year that Wesley lived. The colors were a mixture of Saint Thomas’ and 
UF’s color schemes.
As balloons escaped their view, 
the onlookers held hands.
•   •   •
Gainesburg feels Wesley’s ab-
sence every morning.
As roommates, he would often 
wake Wesley up in their room in 
Trusler Hall — a place Gainesburg plans to avoid.
Spano feels Wesley’s absence on 
the baseball field.
As teammates, he would face 
every triumph and failure with his brother.
If he could, Spano would tell 
Wesley one thing:
“I would just say, ‘I love you.’”
@matrindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgdressing their needs.
During a video message Wednesday, 
City Commissioner Craig Carter also urged the city to ensure sufficient funding for 
parks, recreation and city staff.
Lyons’ message was part of a broad plan 
promoted by Braddy to make Gainesville more business- and citizen-friendly — es-pecially for mom-and-pop stores and peo-ple with low incomes.
“So how do we accomplish the goal of 
making Gainesville the most citizen-cen-
tered government in the world? We’ll do 
it by design, or shall I say, by redesign of 
our processes to accommodate the novice rather than the expert,” Lyons said.
City Commissioner Helen Warren, dur-
ing her video message, praised the city for working to improve infrastructure and em-
phasized the need to continue doing so.
While there were additional achieve-
ments in 2015, Braddy said there are still 
issues the city needs to address, such as 
providing shelter for the homeless and 
lowering GRU rates. 
Last year, the city hired a new GRU 
general manager, Ed Bielarski Jr., who city commissioners have praised for making strides toward lower rates.
During the address Wednesday, Bielar-
ski vowed to lower GRU rates, which he acknowledged are the highest in the state, down to the state median.
Looking ahead in 2016, Braddy said that 
task would remain his top priority.
@hunterewilliam
hwilliamson@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
IT’S THIS WEEKEND.
By Melissa Rodriguez
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF’s School of Music will host the 2016 International Brass 
Festival starting Saturday through Monday.
This is the first time UF will have the festival, which is free 
for the public. Randolph Lee, a UF assistant trumpet professor, 
came up with the idea last year as a way to showcase UF’s 
trumpet department.
“I wanted to have a ‘trumpet party,’ a concert or some-
thing,” Lee said. “I needed to make it sound as big as it was, so 
we called it the International Brass Festival.”
Lee said organizing the event was stressful.“Filling out all the paperwork and organizing everything 
from string ensembles to catering has been difficult,” Lee said. “But overall it’s been a good experience.”
Internationally recognized guest artists will perform at the 
three-day event, including Joe Jamerson and the Gainesville Brass Quintet, the Potsdam Brass Quintet, Luis Araya and Roger Blackburn.
Lee and the UF Trumpet Ensemble will also be performing, 
he said.Rosemond Fabien, a UF electrical engineering sophomore, 
said he will perform as a member of the trumpet ensemble.
“Dr. Lee has been doing a lot for us so that we have a lot 
of the logistics and all we have to do is show up and play,” the 20-year-old said. “I’m excited to learn some stuff from the people who are coming to perform.”
Katie Campbell, a UF industrial and systems engineering se-
nior, said she will be attending the festival for at least one of the days. She said she loves music.
“I’ve played instruments my entire life,” the 22 year-old said. 
“I played the piano and the violin, and I also played in the bell tower for three years, last time being last Spring.”
Campbell said she doesn’t really know what to expect, but 
she is sure the performances will be amazing.
“I’m just really excited for the brass trumpet performances,” 
Campbell said. “I’ve never played any brass instruments, but I love the way they sound.”UF School of Music hosts Brass Festival
CITY,  from pg 1
EPILOGUE,  from pg 1
SATURDAY’S EVENTS
located in the Steinbrenner Band Hall, 
unless otherwise noted:
9 a.m. Warm-up with Dr. Randolph Lee
10 a.m. Life on the Road Master Class with Luis Araya
11 a.m. Music and Entrepreneurship Master Class with 
the Gainesville Brass Quintet
11:45 a.m. Music with an Outside Field Master Class 
with Joe Jamerson
1 p.m. Brass Chamber Music Master Class with the 
Potsdam Brass Quintet
2 p.m. Orchestral Trumpet Master Class with Roger 
Blackburn
3 p.m. at the University Auditorium: Potsdam Brass 
Quintet Recital
5 p.m. at the Music Building, Room 101: Trumpet 
Celebration Concert with Guest Artists
About 1,200 people paid their respectsCity commissoners talked about plans to improve Gainesville  “Filling out all the paperwork and organizing 
everything from string ensembles to catering has been 
difficult. But overall it’s been a good experience.”
Randolph Lee
UF assistant trumpet professor
Courtesy to the Alligator
Wesley Spano (left), 19, poses for a photo with his brother Alec 
Spano, 20. Wesley Spano died Jan. 13.THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Paulina Rios
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students can learn Creole in Haiti this 
Summer.
UF will host a study-abroad program in the 
northern region of Haiti. The six-week lan-
guage and cultural program will be held May 9 
through June 17. The cost of the trip is $4,676, 
and students will receive ﬁ  ve college credits in 
Haitian Creole and three credits in Haitian Cul-
ture and Society.  The program will be stationed in Cape Hai-
tian, which is the second-largest city in Haiti. The program is sponsored by UF’s Depart-
ments of Languages, Literatures & Cultures and 
Agricultural Education & Communication in partnership with Projects For Haiti.
Bertrhude Albert, the chief executive ofﬁ  cer 
of Projects For Haiti, said this program will al-low students to fully immerse themselves with-in the Haitian culture.
“When people go to Haiti, they’re able to get 
a glimpse of this beautiful and this incredibly intriguing history,” Albert said.
Benjamin Hebblethwaite, a UF associate pro-
fessor of Haitian Creole, and Paul Monaghan, a UF associate professor, will co-teach the Hai-tian Culture and Society course in English.  
“This particular version of the course will 
be something like humanities plus social sci-ences,” Hebblethwaite said. A UF graduate student and Haitian Creole expert will offer the language instruction, he said.
“Having the language and the culture in 
your pocket really empowers students to con-nect to the world around them,” Albert said.
Alexandra Cenatus, a ﬁ  rst-year master’s stu-
dent in Latin American studies, said students who visit Cape Haitian will gain a greater un-derstanding of Haiti’s culture and history.
“I think you get the best of Haiti through 
Cape Haitian,” Cenatus said.
The program includes excursions to sev-
eral historical landmarks in Haiti, including Citadelle Laferriere, which is one of the oldest fortresses in Haiti. Albert said the fortress sits on the top of a mountain and represents the strength of the Haitian people. Students will visit courtrooms, farms, government ofﬁ  ces, 
schools and churches.  
“I feel like students walking away from this 
experience will walk away changed,” Albert 
said.  UF oﬀ  ers new study-abroad program in Haiti this summerBy Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
UF President Kent Fuchs is re-
questing about $68 million in fund-ing from Florida’s legislature.
The funding will go toward hir-
ing distinguished faculty and reno-
vating buildings. Fuchs is asking 
for funding for UF Preeminence and Norman Hall renovations, said Jane Adams, the vice president of univer-
sity relations.
The goal of UF Preeminence is to 
make UF a top university and hire 
new faculty. Fuchs requested $10 million for Preeminence and $8 mil-lion to begin renovating Norman Hall, which houses UF’s College of Education, she said.
Fuchs also requested $20.5 mil-lion for the Engineering Innovation Nexus Building and $18 million to help maintain UF’s utilities, infra-structure and capital renewal.
Adams said Fuchs asked for Nor-
man Hall funding because the build-
ing needs to be updated.
Allison Leonard, a UF educa-
tion sophomore, said she thinks the 
building needs to be renovated.
“You can tell it’s lost a lot of what 
it originally had,” she said.
She said funding given to UF 
should go toward the university be-ing more highly ranked in the na-tion.
“Having that feel of a top-10 uni-
versity would make UF graduates stand out more than they already do,” Leonard said.
Adams said Fuchs has lobbied in 
Tallahassee since Fall to get funding for UF. The university won’t know if it’s received funding until Florida’s legislature adjourns about March 11. She said if UF isn’t given funding, Fuchs will continue to ask for more next year.
“We make the request and we go 
back and ask again. We really look to the state to make an investment in the University of Florida,” she said.
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.orgFuchs requests state funding
DOGGONE RACE
Kalessi, a 2-year-old mixed breed, attends the Impact 
Party’s executive ticket candidacy announcement with her owner Jordan Eddy, a 23-year-old UF law student, on the North Lawn on Wednesday afternoon.
Emma Green/Alligator StaffBy Renee Wilson
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students asked the Florida Legislature for funding 
to rebuild UF’s beef teaching units Wednesday.
The students requested $2.6 million for the second 
phase of construction for the UF/IFAS beef teaching unit 
renovations. The money will go toward getting grain 
bins, a tractor, fencing and another building.
The Department of Animal Sciences received $1 mil-
lion last year to build a new metal building, classrooms 
and a cattle-working area. They need the other $2.6 mil-lion to ﬁ  nish all of their construction.
Members of the UF Block and Bridle Club, Gators Col-
legiate Cattlewomen and animal science faculty spoke with legislators.
Joel McQuagge, a UF animal sciences faculty mem-
ber, said he went to the meeting last year and went again this year. He said funding will allow for improved re-search and teaching.
“This gives students the opportunity to get those 
hands-on skills and that internship for a future career,” he said.
McQuagge said he wanted students in Tallahassee 
to thank legislators and members of Florida Cattlemen’s Association for their support last year and to ask for ad-ditional funding.
Josh McLendon, a UF animal sciences senior, said he 
likes meeting other cattle industry advocates and produc-ers in Tallahassee.
McLendon, 24, said UF’s beef teaching unit’s current 
equipment is outdated, rusted and brittle. He said fund-ing to build a new facility will make students and ani-mals safer.
“It was very cool to talk to the representatives person-
ally, to show them what we would do with the money,” McLendon said.  Students seek beef teaching funds
IT WAS ON WEDNESDAY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Sierra Nesbit’s mom bought her a 
bag to hide tampons while Nesbit at-tended middle school.
The UF women’s studies sopho-
more said she thought hiding periods 
was normal but learned otherwise 
in high school. Nesbit, 19, was one of about 40 students who discussed menstruation Wednesday night.
UF’s Women’s Student Associa-
tion and Love, Period — a UF organi-zation that discusses women’s issues — co-hosted the discussion, “Period Shaming: A Real Conversation about Menstruation.” The event included 
video presentations on cultural inter-
pretations of periods, deﬁ  ning who menstruates and discussing taxes on tampons.
“Something that’s so natural 
shouldn’t be shamed,” Nesbit said.At the beginning, students were 
asked the ﬁ  rst words that came to mind when someone says “period.” Students answered words like “choc-olate,” “moodiness,” and “red.” Students later broke out into small groups to share individual experi-
ences with period shaming.
“I’m so glad we had this event be-
cause it goes under-discussed for so 
long,” said Daniella Gennaro, a UF women’s studies senior and presi-dent of WSA.Sophia Serrao, 20, said she took 
comfort in sharing her story with oth-ers.
“My middle school math teacher 
wouldn’t let us leave to go to the bathroom, even if we had to change our pad,” the UF telecommunication 
junior said.
Students also talked about the 
luxury-item tax placed on tampons. 
California residents who menstruate pay $20.2 million in the tax yearly, according to the California State As-sembly. Before this problem can be solved, Gennaro, 21, said the ﬁ  rst step is cultivating a discussion to end period shaming.
“I think that the overall message 
would be just as your period is a nat-ural cycle, the conversation about it 
should be very comfortable and natu-
ral too,” Gennaro said. 
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
 UF groups discusses period shaming, tampon taxesCAMPUS
“Having that feel of a top-10 
university would make UF 
graduates stand out more than 
they already do,”
Allison Leonard
UF Education Sophomore
It focuses on language and cultureThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnIn tragedy, we 
should come 
together
Last semester, we ran an editorial on struggle following the 
suicide of a young UF student. It does not bring us any pleasure to find ourselves doing so once again.
As recounted in our front page story, Wesley Spano 
was an ambitious young man who left us at a young age. 
We will never know the depths of the internal battles Spano had to contend with, but we do know he is not the only one to face such conflicts on UF’s campus.
College is tough. Life is tough. Living out one’s life in as 
large and competitive a college as UF? It can sometimes seem unbearable; that’s why no one should ever have to go through it alone.
Just because we bear our own private crosses doesn’t mean 
we have to carry that weight all by ourselves. As we said when we last wrote on the subject, many of us have been there — “there” being the mental space where life, and all of the effort it entails, can seem like a hopeless and wasteful endeavor. Even if you have never felt that way, you almost certainly know someone who has.
Here at UF, “In All Kinds of Weather” should stand for 
more than just a cute football chant. In a school as sizable and intense as ours, it’s important to have a support system through the good times and the bad. Looking through our own pages over the past year, it is readily self-evident that mental health remains a major issue at UF. Between columnists work-ing out their own frustrations or expressing exasperation with the services provided by UF, it’s clear that it is difficult for many Gators to keep their heads above water. Not all cries for help are audible or visible: That’s why it’s on us, as members of Gator Nation, to look out for one another.
Opening up about one’s inner turmoil can feel akin to, well, 
being literally opened up. Not everybody is naturally equipped with the skills to speak frankly, and it can represent a bold challenge, especially when struggling with mental health.
Take advantage of this community. As we grow older and 
prepare to leave it, it’s important to acknowledge that these problems don’t go away — they merely change shape. This is the time to find your voice and know that asking for help doesn’t show weakness. It takes courage to admit something is wrong, but it is our hope that we can all find an open, sup-portive community as we all learn to come together in our times of need.
Democrat and Republican divide is wide as ever
If there ever was a week to showcase the 
divide in thinking that defines our two-party system, last week was the one. Two debates and the State of the Union showed to those watching that there is not only a 
serious need for change in the American po-litical structure, but with no context provided, these two parties seem to live in completely different countries.
The message from President Obama was 
one of reflection — showing optimism and progress in a District of Columbia characterized by grid-lock. The Democratic debate showed three candidates having a discussion on policy that was constructive and 
empathetic. Emotional responses of anger and fear were 
not utilized as an attempt to push certain policies, and no minority groups were persecuted to gain supporters. In-stead, there was understanding of the issues at hand and reasonable solutions to these problems. Altogether, there was a feeling similar to that of the president: Things are getting better, but more needs to be done.  
And then we have the Republican debate. The view 
emphasized by Republicans during the debate was the 
polar opposite of that of the Democrats on Sunday or 
Obama last Tuesday. To the Republican Party, the coun-try and the world are in flames. Granted, there are siz-able issues when it comes to foreign policy — ISIS being the most prominent in the minds of most Americans — but Republicans are attempting to utilize fear and an-ger over events abroad to stoke more anger and garner support for their campaign. This is despite the fact the U.S. and the Iranian government have had a success-
ful prisoner swap, and most international organizations 
have deemed that Iran’s nuclear program can no longer be weaponized. But foreign policy successes only serve to hurt the Republican message, so instead, viewers can enjoy hearing candidates like Dr. Ben Carson discuss EMPs going off in the atmosphere and shutting down the electrical grid. You know, just the things terrorists have been known to do.On economic issues, the country is the 
weakest it has ever been according to Repub-licans, who seem to have forgotten that the Great Recession happened under their watch less than eight years ago. 
Any glimmers of real policy were tough to 
find between the jokes and insults about the ever-present liberal specters of Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama. All of the candi-dates seemed anxious to step up to the plate when it came to primary season critiques, but 
it will be interesting to see how the tables will turn when most of the candidates’ resumes pale in comparison with Clinton’s. 
When they were not busy attacking people who were 
not in the room, the candidates attacked one another. The classic battle over “New York values” (whatever the hell that means) took center stage for a short time as Donald Trump and Sen. Ted Cruz’s bromance seemed close to imploding. The better attack of the night, in my opinion, was that of Sen. Marco Rubio’s against Cruz, which left Cruz stumbling to find an answer. Other can-didates called to stop the infighting: an unlikely proposi-
tion.
But this is the state of our union, where political par-
ties with the same information reach totally different con-
clusions. It has become political suicide for anybody in a conservative primary race to agree with the success of a president if that president is a Democrat. This need for a distinct duality is killing our ability to compromise with one another. Neither Republicans nor Democrats have a monopoly on correct policymaking. With that said, at 
least the Democrats are exhibiting candidates that have 
clear desires to compromise, something that cannot be said on the opposite side; that side can, however, claim to have Donald Trump cracking jokes and answering in vague platitudes for two hours. The state of our union, when it comes to compromise, is not strong. 
Kevin Foster is a UF political science senior. His col-
umn appears on Thursdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.org“It takes courage to admit 
something is wrong, but it is 
our hope that we can all find an 
open, supportive community as 
we all learn to come together in 
our times of need.”THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Here are some hypothetical scenarios 
that never actually happen:
You stroll into the gym, iPhone and 
earbuds in hand, and make your way to a treadmill to get a workout started. 
You get the treadmill to a nice speed, and you start your run. “Almost forgot!” you think to 
yourself: “Music!” You take out your iPhone, 
open Spotify, and play “Yellow Submarine” by the Beatles to get yourself going.
No.What a night. You and your friends just had the time 
of your lives and are feeling on top of the world. The night is still young, and the group hops into your car. You can almost feel the vibrant energy in the air. “Hey! Give me that aux cord!” your pals yell. You grant their 
wish, and everyone braces for a bassline strong enough 
to barrel roll the vehicle in which they’re sitting. With the entire universe of music at their command, what do your friends play? “Dear Prudence” off of the Beatles’ “White Album.”
Again, no.It must’ve been such a good idea at the time. The 
Beatles are the most popular band of all time, and Spo-tify is now becoming the most popular music service in 
the world. 
Why not finally combine the two? What could go 
wrong?
How about sucking all of the magic out of the Beatles?
In the music pantheon, the Beatles are in a league of 
their own. It’s perfectly fine to compare a new artist to the Rolling Stones, but if you ever make a comparison involving the Fab Four, you’re condemned and deemed insane. The Beatles are apparently untouchable in the 
world of musical discussion; just accept they are the 
best, will always be the best and nothing can ever take this away from them.
Hold on. Can we not do this?Don’t get me wrong, the Beatles are one of the most 
influential artists of the last century. However, I think the executives over at Spotify (and the Beatles’ estates,  I suppose) should’ve taken a long look at what exact-ly makes the band so special and then decided if they 
would be a good fit.
So what does make the Beatles so special to us music 
lovers?
I can’t speak on behalf of ALL listeners, but I think 
part of the answer lies in the following: Each one of us has our own personal, unique experience with the music 
of John, Paul, George and Ringo. 
For me, it was begging my dad to play “Octopus’s 
Garden” on a weekend trip to Home Depot in elemen-tary school. It was sitting with legs crossed in my grandparents’ home, sifting through all of their dusty Beatles records. It was the magi-
cal feeling that comes with holding an origi-
nal copy of “Abbey Road” that hadn’t been touched since the Nixon administration. 
For every stage in my life thus far, there 
has been a Beatles record to provide an apt soundtrack.
The magic of the Beatles is found within the 
unique circumstances in which we all have heard them. Apple has done a fantastic job at keeping their catalog 
relatively under wraps for the last 40 years, preventing 
a consumption-crazy society from growing tired of the tunes. 
Up until now, hearing a Beatles song was limited to 
deliberate occasions, times when you were distinctly aware you were listening to them. You’d never use a Beatles song as background music, would you?
But here lies the problem. 
Spotify is a wonderful invention, but it has given us 
the ability to have background music 24/7. From your 
walk on the Plaza of the Americas, to your hours study-ing in Marston during exam week, you can always have your favorite music blasting into your ears.
The joy of listening to a Beatles record is intently 
listening for all of the hidden jewels within each track. Beatles records are filled to the brim with mysterious concoctions of unrelated noises, smashing genres to-
gether and creating new ones in the process. 
However, the Beatles sound is underwhelming as 
background noise yet brilliant when proper attention is 
given.
The sad reality is that the nature of the Beatles' mu-
sic does not fit well with our hectic, music-all-the-time habits. In a society with everyone constantly in a rush, all music has seemingly turned into background noise.
We’re merely hearing the music and no longer listen-
ing to it. This is a fate not befit of the Beatles.
Andrew Hall is a UF finance sophomore. His column 
appears on Thursdays.Rethinking the Beatles' addition to SpotifyColumn
The ﬁ  rst year in a new job or as a new student is stress-
ful. I just ﬁ  nished my ﬁ  rst year. Some of my stress came from leaving friends behind and not knowing if people at UF would like me or if I would like them. Some of my anxiety came from not knowing if I would succeed at 
my new job.
There was also the stress and strain of my professional life, 
which included having difﬁ  cult problems to solve, deadlines and too little time to do everything that needed to be done. As a new president, I experienced some of the stress and anxiety every new UF student experiences — and what every UF gradu-ate experiences in their new jobs or new pursuits after leaving the university.    
As I shared at Commencement in December, one way I have 
dealt with challenges is to maintain a sense of self-deprecating humor and not take myself too seriously despite the pressures of the job.
For example, I’ve made several silly videos, such as me try-
ing to dance the Whip and Nae Nae or pretending to be Darth Vader, Mr. Two Bits or the head football coach. Being purpose-ful in my humor has added joy to my life. However, the greatest impact has been on others. My attempts to be intentional with my smiles and humor, despite my own problems, have added 
joy to the lives of other people.
At Commencement last month, I displayed a photo of thou-
sands of new students that had been taken at Convocation a 
few months before. The photo included a freshman named Landon Rogers. Landon collapsed and passed away on Nov. 19 while working out with Air Force ROTC.
Before he died, he was well-known for his constant smile. 
In fact, he made a presentation in a class last semester on “The Effect of Smiling.” He ended his presentation with a quote from 
Mother Teresa: “I will never understand all the good that a sim-
ple smile can accomplish.”
Indeed, in the Convocation photos, Landon can be seen with 
a broad smile on his face. Although I grow sad when I think of the students, staff and faculty we have lost in the past year, I am ﬁ  lled with joy when I see Landon’s smile. It is his gift to us this year.   
I am trying to learn how to give that same gift of smiles, 
humor and joy to everyone at UF. If you see me walking on the 
Plaza of the Americas with a frown or scowl, please shout out 
and remind me to smile. I’ll do my best to make you laugh in the midst of your studies, work and life.
Kent Fuchs is the President of the University of Florida. His 
columns appear monthly.Smiles and intentional joyColumn
Andrew Hall
opinions@alligator.org
 Kent Fuchs
opinions@alligator.org
“The magic of the Beatles 
is found within the unique 
circumstances in which we all 
have heard them.”8   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
INTRODUCING THE SPRING 2016 EXECUTIVE TICKETS
IMPACT
Kalyani Hawaldar is a 21-year-
old UF sociology and biology senior running for Student 
Body president with Access Party.
Hawaldar currently serves as 
the diversity affairs executive director in Student Government. 
She is a Florida Cicerone, a mem-
ber of Gatorship Staff 2016 and was a part of the Preview staff in 2014. She is part of the Re-itz Scholars program and was a 
member of a task force to create 
gender-neutral restrooms.
She said she hopes to continue 
working with UF’s administration 
to help students succeed.
“I’m really running to serve as 
a voice for the Student Body, for 
all students struggling and striv-ing to be successful,” she said. 
“My biggest goal is to make sure 
that students are able to fulfill their potentials here.”
Hammaad Saber is a 22-year-old 
UF industrial and systems engi-neering senior running for Stu-
dent Body vice president with Access Party.
Saber currently serves as a sena-
tor for the College of Engineering. He served on the Rules and Ethics Com-mittee, was an Innovation Academy ambassador and has interned as a consultant analyst for The Walt Dis-ney Co. Saber was a First Year Flori-da peer leader and peer mentor, and he is also the networking director of 
the Institute of Industrial Engineers. 
He also founded, and is the president of, IA Leadership Enhancement and Development. He said he wants to apply past experiences to the vice presidential role.
“I will do everything I can to 
make sure that the students’ voice are heard, and if a student has a con-
cern, if a student wants an event, I 
want to make sure that’s reality,” he said. “I have a huge skill set and I’m itching to use it.”
Lillian Rozsa is a 20-year-old UF 
political science and women’s studies sophomore running for 
Student Body treasurer with Access Party.
Rozsa currently serves as a 
senator for District D. She serves 
as the current vice president of the 
Women’s Student Association and is the president and founder of the UF chapter of HeForShe. Rozsa has also served on the Transportation 
and Fee Committee.
She said she wants to remain ac-
cessible to students trying to start 
student organizations.
“I really understand what it takes 
to be part of a student organization and to really start from the bottom up in terms of financials with stu-dent organizations,” she said. “I 
really think that I’m someone that 
students can go to if they have fee complaints or go to for any sort of question they may have.”Susan Webster is a 22-year-old UF international studies senior running for Student 
Body president with Impact Par-ty.
Webster currently serves as 
UF Student Senate president and 
a District A senator. She served 
as chairwoman of the Budget and Appropriations Committee and Rules and Procedures Ad Hoc Committee. She started the 
Diversity Outreach and Mental 
Health Awareness Ad Hoc Com-mittees. She also helped open the Field and Fork Food Pantry.
Webster said she hopes to 
make changes to help serve stu-dents and make UF a top-10 in-stitution.
“I know that I will be able to 
fight for you not only on the uni-versity level, but in Tallahassee and in (Washington) D.C.,” she said.
Brendon “BJ” Jonassaint is a 21-year-old UF health sci-ence junior running for Stu-
dent Body vice president with Impact Party.
Jonassaint is currently a Cabi-
net liaison for UF Student Senate. 
He was also a member of the 
Florida Cicerones, a Preview staffer, a Preview coordinator and a J. Wayne Reitz Scholar. 
He is also a member of the 
Black Student Union.
Jonassaint said he especially 
hopes to improve student life.
“I think I should be elected 
because of my passion for the university and my passion for helping students move forward, helping students out in general,” he said.
Kishan Patel is a 20-year-old UF 
industrial and systems engi-neering sophomore running 
for Student Body treasurer with Impact Party.
Patel is currently a sophomore 
senator. He serves as the Indian Student Association treasurer and as a member of the Budget and Ap-propriations Committee in SG. He was a member of GatoRaas Dance Team and is currently a resident assistant in Cypress Hall. He was also the Access Party treasurer.
Patel said he decided to run 
with Impact because he said Ac-cess Party was unable to compro-mise in Senate.
“I’m really moving toward tan-
gible change for the students,” he said. “The Impact Party is all about tangible change.”
Melissa Gomez is an Alligator 
Staff Writer. Contact her at mgo-mez@alligator.org or follow her on Twitter @MelissaGomez004.ACCESSKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
What’s inside: 
The Avenue reviews Anderson .Paak’s “Malibu, ” pg 10.Local author to host book signing, pg 12.Surfer Blood to play in GNV this weekend
The band will perform Saturday at The Wooly, pg 13.Courtesy to the Alligator
Reel Big Fish will play its first-ever show at High Dive, 210 SW Second Ave., on Saturday. Doors open at 7 p.m., and the show begins at 9 p.m. THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
By Robyn Wilbar
Avenue Writer
This weekend in Gainesville, the 
‘90s are making a comeback.
Reel Big Fish is performing Satur-
day at High Dive, located at 210 SW 
Second Ave., along with Suburban 
Legends and The Maxies. This will 
be the band’s ﬁ  rst-ever show at the venue.
“Reel Big Fish is a kingpin of the 
‘90s ska-punk scene,” Pat Lavery, owner of Glory Days Presents, said in an email. “Like many people, I have been a fan of the band since high school.”
Lavery said he saw the band per-
form in Gainesville when he was in college.“They ﬁ  t in great with our current 
spring lineup of The Expendables, 
Badﬁ  sh and the like,” he said. “We 
have seen huge fan reaction from this show and expect it to sell out.”
Doors open at 7 p.m., and the 
show begins at 9 p.m. Tickets range from $18 to $20.
An icon of the era, Reel Big Fish 
came onto the scene following the mid-’90s success of No Doubt and Sublime.
Originally from Huntington 
Beach, California, the band has continuously toured and played live — with over 250 shows a year. The band members’ passion for the 
ska-punk genre and the loyalty to 
their fans has increased their under-ground popularity as the ska scene continues to grow.
Reel Big Fish is currently on its 
“Candy Coated Fury” tour, showcas-ing the band’s ﬁ  rst album of original material in ﬁ  ve years. It is the sev-enth album that band has recorded in its 20-year history, and it feels just as energetic and acerbic as the 
group’s foundational releases.
In reference to the band’s upcom-
ing music and albums, Billy Kottage, 
the trombone and occasional organ player for the band, said, “I’d prob-ably get run over by a car if I told you.”
Reel Big Fish is sticking with its 
original ska-punk band feel, though, 
Kottage said.
“Our newest music compared to 
our music of the late ‘90s is still pret-ty similar, granted it is evolving,” he 
said.
Aaron Barrett, the lead singer and 
songwriter, writes most of the band’s 
songs in his head, Kottage said. “We 
don’t really know how he does it.”
Kottage had a long-time rela-
tionship with other members of the band, including previous trombone player Dan Regan, who left the band in 2013 to pursue other projects. This is when Kottage ofﬁ  cially joined Reel Big Fish. He had played in mul-
tiple bands and toured with Reel Big 
Fish before joining.
“A lot of the time when you are 
on tour with a band and people within the ska genre, music takes a backseat to the relationships you have with the people you are creat-ing music with,” Kottage said. 
He said the people within the ska 
genre are one of his favorite parts about being in Reel Big Fish.As for bands that are looking 
to make it big, Kottage said one of the most important things is to ﬁ  nd opportunities to play in front of a 
healthy amount of people, and ev-
eryone has to be ready to perform the best they can.
He elaborated that playing with 
friends is one of the most important factors in succeeding as a band.
Kottage enjoys the Gainesville 
music scene and is looking forward to playing at High Dive.
The band has close connec-
tions to fellow ska-punk band Less Than Jake, who are originally from Gainesville.
For Kottage, playing in Gainesville 
feels like home because it is not a major city.
“Gainesville is not that big, which 
is really awesome because it’s a little 
smaller and more concentrated and 
more personal,” he said.HIGH DIVE REELS IN BIG FISH
The ska-punk band plays SaturdayTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11  10   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
It took only 15 days for the first great al-
bum of 2016 to be released.
While “Malibu” is Anderson .Paak’s 
second studio album, this album should be considered his breakout performance. 
Anderson .Paak started turning heads when he was featured six times on Dr. Dre’s Gram-my-nominated album, “Compton,” as well as The Game’s “The Documentary 2.5.” “Mal-ibu” is an album that sounds different than anything we’ve been hearing, despite all the new music being put out. Funk music has been making a comeback, and “Malibu” has a ton of funk, soul and blues/jazz influences 
throughout the entire project. If you trust my 
taste in music, then you’ll definitely listen to and really enjoy this album, and if you don’t, you’re just playing yourself.
“Malibu” begins with the “The Bird,” 
which slowly fades in with a guitar intro giv-ing off a John Mayer vibe. Anderson .Paak’s usual raspy voice isn’t to be found on this song; instead, we get a soothing hook and re-
laxing piano melody with a hint of jazz in the 
background. “The Bird” sets the bar high for “Malibu,” which only gets better with every song.
“Heart Don’t Stand a Chance” is next, and 
it starts with a short bridge that blends into a dope beat as Anderson .Paak lays down a mixture of a rap/singing verse. “Heart Don’t 
Stand a Chance” keeps the flow going with 
a guitar solo before the first skit mixes into “The Waters.”
“The Waters” has a deep bass line through-
out the whole song as Anderson .Paak shows off his rapping ability with a couple of verses and some clever wordplay. With the album’s first feature coming from BJ the Chicago Kid on the hook, “The Waters” has a gospel feel 
that isn’t as prevalent in today’s music.
“The Season / Carry Me” is a two-part 
song with multiple layers that come togeth-
er and nearly put you in a trance. The awe-some intro — combined with .Paak’s singing mixed with the soulful background vocals and the tempo switch from “The Season” to “Carry Me” — forms one of the more creative songs I’ve heard in recent memory. Anderson 
.Paak’s music is cool because of his ability to 
give off a 1960s soul music record with a new-school twist of lyrics and layered vocals like the “Momma can you carry me” line. Some-thing interesting about “Carry Me” is how the song samples the sound Jay Z makes at the end of “F---WithMeYouKnowIGotIt” from his “Magna Carter Holy Grail” album that can be 
heard frequently in this song.
“Malibu” switches its soulful feel on “Put 
Me Thru” with an upbeat piano and electric 
guitar instrumental. “Malibu” has a variety of sounds throughout the entire album, and “Put Me Thru” shows the artistic ability of Ander-son .Paak.
“Malibu” transitions to more of a funky-
jazz vibe on “Am I Wrong” that also — in-
terestingly enough — features ScHoolBoy 
Q, who weirdly sounds great on this record. At this point in the album, I have yet to find something to criticize.
Anderson .Paak brings back his bars on 
the next song “Without You,” which features Rhapsody, who bodies her guest verse. I es-pecially like this song because these are two new artists who both first started gaining at-
tention when they were featured on two huge 
albums last year (.Paak on Dr. Dre’s “Comp-ton” and Rhapsody on Kendrick Lamar’s “To Pimp A Butterfly”) and have now come to-gether to make a dope song. It’s always great 
to see new artists shining together.
It seems like Anderson .Paak wanted to 
prove to everyone that he doesn’t have to be 
confined to a single genre or sound to make great music, and certainly we see that on “Parking Lot.” This song has a psychedelic and indie-rock sound, which I find super dope. “Parking Lot” sounds like a song that could be found on a Tame Impala album, and 
I really dig it.
The next song is “Lite Weight” which 
is a super simple, yet beautiful song. “Lite 
Weight” has an intro, the same three repeat-ed choruses, two bridges and a quick outro, but sometimes simple is better. On “Room in Here,” Anderson .Paak spits a verse over a smooth hip-hop beat that features The Game. Anderson .Paak and The Game worked to-
gether a lot on “The Documentary 2.5” and 
team up again to make a dope record.
After a short interlude, or rather an “Inter-
luuube,” as it’s styled on the track listing, An-derson .Paak picks up where he left off with “Your Prime.” This song feels like it’s missing something. Kendrick Lamar would have been a perfect guest for this song, but we can’t al-
ways get what we want, right?
“Come Down” uses a bass guitar as the 
foundation for the song as .Paak lays down 
a couple short verses in between the catchy group chorus. While “Come Down” isn’t my favorite song on “Malibu,” it’s still an impor-tant piece to the album, because at the end of song a short skit tells us that years ago, the center of the surfing world was Malibu. So, af-
ter 13 songs, the album’s central theme comes 
together: Malibu is paradise, and just like the beautiful city in California, this album should bring you nothing but peace and good vibes.
We enter the home stretch of “Malibu” 
with my personal favorite song on the album, “Silicon Valley.” The song itself is relatively simple until it builds up to the energetic hook in which Anderson .Paak’s raspy-yet-raw vo-
cals steal the spotlight. I can guarantee you’ll 
feel the lively hook to your core.
“Celebrate” brings back a bass line used 
frequently throughout the album with anoth-er feel-good song that’ll take you to Anderson .Paak’s home state of California. The piano riff completes the song as the album winds down into the “The Dreamer.”
“The Dreamer” takes nearly 45 seconds 
to build up with the help of the Timan Fam-ily Choir into an enthusiastic chorus that is intended to inspire. The song features rap-great Talib Kweli as well, which was a great move by Anderson .Paak. Paak knows how Talib’s extensive vocabulary, wordplay and delivery can help convey a message. On “The Dreamer,” Anderson .Paak tells us how he is 
just like us: someone who believed he was 
meant to be great and made a name for him-self against all odds. Anderson .Paak leaves his listeners inspired with a perfect song to end a great album.
Music Review: Anderson .Paak’s “Malibu” is already the best album of 2016 ff the Record
Jack DaSilva
Avenue WriterTERRI DEPUE  WILL SIGN 
HER FIRST NOVEL SATURDAY.
By RaSheba Jones
Avenue Writer
After a year of production, local author Terri 
Depue will host a book signing for her ﬁ  rst nov-
el, “Blooms: A Magnolia Creek Novel.”
The book signing will be held at 1 p.m. Sat-
urday at Know Where Coffee, located at 1226 W. University Ave. The book will be available for $10 during the event.
“The priority is to support local authors,” 
said Deyanira Romero, marketing manager at Know Where Coffee. “We love having our space, and we love involving the community as much as we can.”
Open for almost a year, the coffee shop has 
held one book signing in the past and is look-ing to host more events to support local talent, Romero said.
The ﬁ  rst of a three-part series, the story fol-
lows ﬁ  ctional main character Annie Reed, a young woman who moves across the country and ends up ﬁ  nding her life.
Reed travels to a small town in rural Virgin-
ia, where a change of events leads her through a journey of self-discovery. She ends up ﬁ  nding three older women who offer a unique perspec-tive on life, love, faith and family.
“I appreciate the relationship that young 
people beneﬁ  t from with old people,” Depue said. “I see it as a positive message in this book as well.”
While the characters were not intended to 
represent Depue, the author touched upon cer-tain aspects of her life throughout the book.
“I think a lot of the characters represent dif-
ferent aspects of myself, and my family and 
friends,” Depue said. “They are deﬁ  nitely as-
pects of people I know because you write what you know.”Some of those aspects include humor, per-
sonality traits and a sense of adventure, Depue said.
The 54-year-old had worked in software 
implementation and support for more than 20 years before deciding to write and publish her ﬁ  rst novel. 
While she still works in this ﬁ  eld, her ﬁ  rst 
step toward becoming an author began at a leadership and development course with Klemmer and Associ-
ates.
The ﬁ  nal class required 
everyone to set two goals: 
one personal and the other professional.
“I decided I wanted a dif-
ferent career for retirement and set a goal to write a draft of a novel and submit it to one publisher,” Depue said.
After writing the draft in the time allotted, 
she submitted it to Tate Publishing, which ac-cepted the story.
The inspiration for the book came from a 
scene Depue kept replaying in her head.
The scene focused on a young woman chang-
ing the tire on an old truck. It was muddy, and the young woman was frustrated, but she kept this sense of humor about herself, Depue said. 
Changing the tire was completely out of her ele-
ment, but she decided to stay positive and ﬁ  nd humor in the situation.
Although the scene didn’t make it into the 
book, the inspiration of the young woman who 
decided she was going to take a chance inspired 
Depue to write the novel.
“I have lived a life where I will strike out 
some place I’ve never lived,” Depue said.
Depue  is currently working with Tate Pub-
lishing to ﬁ  nalize the second book in the series, which is expected to be released in the fall.12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
Courtesy to the Alligator
T erri Depue’s ﬁ  rst novel, “Blooms: A Magnolia Creek Novel, ” will be 
available for purchase at the book signing. 
Local author to host book 
signing at Know Where Coﬀ  eeBy Erica Pope
Avenue Writer
The Gainesville Improv Festival is re-
turning for a milestone 10th time, showcas-
ing comedy talent from across the country.
The festival will take place Jan. 27 to 
Jan. 30 at UF’s Phillips Center for the Per-forming Arts. The four-day event includes performances and workshops hosted by 
notable improv performers.
UF alumni Tom O’Donnell and Skyler 
Stone created the festival in 2003. The pair 
met while in school as members of UF’s sketch comedy team, Theatre Strike Force.
“We thought to ourselves, ‘Hey, you 
know, it would be really cool if we could put together a festival and bring nation-al acts to Gainesville,’” O’Donnell, the 
38-year-old co-founder, said.
The goal was to pull national improv 
artists to Gainesville for educational value, 
while also highlighting the local improv scene, he said.
O’Donnell said the festival has grown since its inception, when they had to scrounge around for venues during the ﬁ  rst year.
Co-founder Skyler Stone, 38, said the 
festival has “grown up a lot, just like us,” 
and now brings in comedians from New 
York, Los Angeles and Chicago.
“It’s a really nicely run production,” he 
said. “The groups we are getting are more 
vast and wide.”
Stone said the distinction of the festival 
resides in the participants’ connections to 
UF, many of whom come down and par-ticipate every year. The festival has at least 
one UF alumnus in each comedy troupe.
He pointed to UF alumnus and actor Bil-
ly Merritt, who is set to perform and teach 
workshops.
“He was on Best Week Ever, Reno 911, 
Law and Order,” Stone said.
Alumni leave and create their own 
sketch teams, but they want to return and pay homage to their alma mater, he said.
Danny Mora, a UF advertising alumnus, 
will be performing and teaching with his Chicago-based group, Night Terrors.
“I became interested in improv when I 
joined UFs comedy-sketch group, but back then it was more of a social-activist group,” the 43-year-old performer said.
Mora has attended the festival in past 
years and said he was in Gainesville around the time the festival was ﬁ  rst get-ting started.
“When I do the show, it’s an excuse for 
me to also see my family that lives in Flor-
ida,” Mora said. “But I love it, and I loved 
my time at Florida, so for me it’s an excuse to visit Gainesville.”
He plans to focus on authenticity within his teaching workshops, including react-ing honestly to situations during a comedy skit.
Mora said his favorite part consists of 
hanging out after the show and hearing the 
audience’s perspective.
“It’s always great when you can show 
up,” he said. “And put something on that 
they’ve never seen before, and it leaves 
them talking.”
Bethany Remely, member of ComedyS-
portz, will be headlining the festival with 
three other members Saturday night.
“One of the greatest things about these 
improv festivals is it gives you an oppor-tunity to see styles and types of play and forms that are outside your immediate vi-cinity,” the 30-year-old said.
Remely said her goal is to interact with 
as many comedians from different areas.
“There are so many interesting things 
that performers are doing all across the country,” she said. “And this gives us a 
chance to get together and learn from each 
other.”  UF alumni return to perform in sketch comedy festival
LOCAL
“When I do the show, it’s an excuse 
for me to also see my family that lives 
in Florida. But I love it, and I loved 
my time at Florida, so for me it’s an 
excuse to visit Gainesville.”
Danny Mora
UF advertising alumnus
Depue
By Kayla Ziadie
Avenue Writer
Before they were touring all over 
the world, they were recording mu-
sic in their Florida apartment.
West Palm Beach-based alter-
native rock band Surfer Blood will 
return to Gainesville on Saturday at 
The Wooly, 20 N. Main St. Doors open at 8 p.m., and tickets are avail-able online for $12 at showclix.com.
In 2009, lead singer John Paul 
“JP” Pitts and drummer Tyler Schwarz played and recorded music together in high school. They met future guitarist Thomas Fekete at an 
Ultra Music Festival after-party.
“Thomas had heard some of our 
music we had up on MySpace at the 
time,” Pitts said. “We didn’t have a full-time guitarist, so I gave him my number and he called the next morning.”
Soon after, they began to record 
and release music, which turned 
into touring along the East Coast un-
der the name Surfer Blood.
The name was created after Pitts 
teased Schwarz for a surfer back-pack he had in high school. Origi-nally from the West Coast, Schwarz said he couldn’t help that he had “surfer blood.”
The band has released three al-
bums and one EP.
The ﬁ  rst album “Astro Coast” 
was released in 2010, and the latest album “1000 Palms” was released in 2015.
“After ‘Astro Coast’ I didn’t know 
what was next,” Pitts said. “Looking back, we didn’t really know what we were doing since we had no friends or family in the business, but we just kept writing and recording music.”
Pitts describes the band’s sound 
as dynamic.
“It’s not too mellow or in-your-
face,” Pitts said. “It’s supposed to have its ups and downs.”
Chris Platt, a 21-year-old UF tele-
communication junior, has been a fan of Surfer Blood for several months.
He heard about the band and 
“1000 Palms” through the music app Spotify.
“‘Grand Inquisitor’ is probably 
one of my favorite songs off the 
new album,” Platt said. “It’s got a 
big sound that transitions from fore-boding to playful by the end.”
The song is one of the band’s 
more quirky performances, Pitts said.“‘Grand Inquisitor’ is one of 
the more impressive songs we’ve done,” Pitts said. “The musical ar-rangements are disjointed from each other, and the vocals are in harmo-ny with jumps in the melody.”
Pitts credits rock band The Beach 
Boys for helping inﬂ  uence Surfer Blood’s sound and said the band’s harmonies and guitar sounds are an inspiration.
Surfer Blood has toured with the Pixies and played shows world-wide, including music festivals like the Coachella Valley Music and Arts 
Festival and All Tomorrow’s Parties.
“At All Tomorrow’s Parties, we 
got to play with one of my biggest 
inspirations, the band Pavement,” Pitts said. “I know pretty much ev-ery song (lead singer) Stephen Mal-kmus has ever written, so getting to meet and play with them in a differ-ent country was awesome.”
However, pitfalls have come 
along the way with the band’s ac-complishments. 
A few band members have come in and out over the years. Fekete had to leave in early 2015 when he was diagnosed with cancer.
“(Fekete) deﬁ  nitely had to take 
time off,” Pitts said. “We have a website where people can donate money to help him out.”
Before the band’s worldwide 
success, Pitts applied to UF when he was still in high school and working on music at home.
“I would have deﬁ  nitely at-
tended but I wanted to focus on my music,” Pitts said. “I love playing in Gainesville; it’ll always be good to us.”THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
Courtesy to the Alligator
West Palm Beach-based alternative rock band Surfer Blood will perform Saturday at The Wooly, 20 N. Main St. Show doors open 
at 8 p.m, and tickets are available for $12 on showclix.com.
Rock band Surfer Blood to make waves in Gainesville
MEDIOCRE ADVICESeminoles and the Sahara Desert
Dear Mediocre,
How can I show my Gator pride around 
my family when they are ALL FSU fans?
- Confused Sports Fan
Dear Confused Sports Fan,I’m going to do what I do best and an-
swer a question with a question. Have you ever considered that maybe they’re not your family? Blood may be thicker than water, but Gator hide is thicker than Semi-nole skin.
- Mediocre
Dear Mediocre,Is it better to do a semester 
abroad or try to ﬁ  nd an intern-ship in my future ﬁ  eld?
- Adventure
Dear Adventure,If there’s something any col-
lege student knows about in-ternships, it’s this: One, they’re totally useless because your college dreams will be crushed when you’re out in the real world and end 
up working for your uncle in a completely 
unrelated ﬁ  eld. And two, they’re the legal form of slavery. That crosses out intern-ships as an option.
Now, a semester abroad 
means forced relationships and 
an extra 15 pounds added to 
the 15 you’ve already gained in college. Good luck ﬁ  nding a suitable life partner after three 
months in Barcelona. If that’s 
not enough to cross out study-ing abroad, I have one question for you: Have you seen Taken? 
(Thanks, Zach.)
My advice: Take out an extra loan 
(What’s one more?) and plan a trip to the Sahara Desert. Live off the land and be grateful you have a computer or a smart-phone — or in most cases, both �— with which to send said questions to Mediocre 
Advice. Camp out there for three months 
with no record of your existence and come back a new human. Just make sure to come back before they legally kick you out of UF, 
‘cause at that point, internships or studying 
abroad will no longer be a question.
                                               - Mediocre
Send your questions to mediocre.alliga-
tor.advice@gmail.com and together we’ll 
ﬁ  nd solutions to your dilemmas and have 
some fun along the way. 
Laura 
Gomez
Avenue WriterThe show is Saturday at The WoolyTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Available Aug 1st. Very nice 4BR/2BA house, 
wood floors, all amenities in kitchen, W/D provided. $1450/Mo, 830 NW 6th Ave. Text or call 352-339-2342. Pictures at:www.gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com   1-27-16-15-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
Sublease 1/1 in 2/2 Townhouse in Museum Walk Apartments Females only. Lease is through July 30th w/ January rent already paid for! Amenities include washer/dryer, Internet, and utiles included in rent. Furnishings provid-ed, includes bed (with bed frame), desk, desk chair, dresser, and night stand. Walk-in closet. Parking included in rent. carinah10@ufl.edu    1-22-16-5-3
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALESNO CREDIT CHECK!!!6 MONTHS TO PAYDOWN PAYMENT!!!352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTALEASY TO RENT!!!!NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALESHOME OF $0 DOWN!NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 8 Electronics 11Motorcycles/
MopedsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15 
98 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
12 Autos 12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted16   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago 
Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Experienced Cook WantedCafe Risque, Micanopy, FL352-466-3803Dancer Auditions OngoingManagers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
LOCAL TV STATION
hiring in HR, News and Technical Operations. See the About Us page at www.mygtn.tv    1-21-16-4-14
NOW HIRING
Extended Day Enrichment Program
Energetic, knowledgeable people wanted
to work with elementary school children
doing arts & crafts, sports, Dance, music
and much more in an after school program 
at various schools.  
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30 &
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Various locations close at 6:00pm
Activity Leaders $10 per hour
Drug Testing Required, 
Background Investigation Conducted
Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
Apply online at www.sbac.edu 
School Board of Alachua County
620 E. University Ave. 
Gainesville, FL 32601
For more information call EDEP office
@ 955-7766
1-25-16-5-14Homework Coach for gifted 7th grader with dysgraphia. $10/hr. 4-8 hrs/wk. Flexible. Needs help with organization, study skills, time management, and homework. Send qualifications to KarenGill@aol.com    1-25-5-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted 23 Rides 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Amanda Butler and the UF 
women's basketball team end their three-game homestand tonight against Alabama. Read the story on page 18Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
UF soccer player makes USWNT camp
Florida freshman midﬁ  elder Briana Solis was invited to the Under-19 Wom-
en's National T eam camp. Solis will audition for a roster spot on the women's team for the 2016 FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup.By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
In sports, tension is the enemy. 
Go into competition plagued by 
fraying nerves, and the simplest 
task becomes a complex maneu-
ver. Muscle memory fades. In-stinct along with it. Even amongst the din of screaming fans, it’s eas-
ier to get lost in your own mind.
For freshman gymnast Alicia 
Boren, this tension was a common 
occurrence. 
A product of New Jersey’s 
North Stars Gymnastics Academy, the diminutive Boren was an ab-solute ﬁ  recracker throughout her pre-collegiate career.
However, even as she racked 
up accolades on both the amateur and national circuits, Boren’s suc-cess has been characterized by one telltale sign: her stoicism. 
But in Florida's win over then-
No. 5 UCLA on Friday, as Boren ﬁ  nished up her ﬂ  oor routine, her personality began to break out. 
Her serious demeanor shifted 
when she ended her ﬁ  nal routine with a smile.
"Really, I think that was the 
highlight," UF coach Jenny Row-land said. "The team recognized it and noticed it.”
Despite normally being care-free and jovial, Boren is all busi-ness when she performs. The Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, na-tive immerses herself in the heat of competition, allowing it to eat 
away at the joy she experiences 
on the practice-gym mat.
As talented as Boren is, emo-
tion only serves to hinder her vast potential.She notched a combined score 
of 29.100 over three events in 
her ﬁ  rst collegiate meet at Texas 
Woman’s University, averaging 9.700 points per apparatus in spite of taking a fall on the vault. Stone-faced, she recovered nicely, tying 
for ﬁ  rst on the beam and taking 
third on the ﬂ  oor.
Debuting at home was a com-
pletely different story.
Competing in the all-around 
for the ﬁ  rst time in her ﬂ  edgling Florida career, Boren turned in a solid performance, ﬁ  nishing no lower than fourth in each of the 
events she competed in.
In total, Boren’s 39.575 tied 
teammate Kennedy Baker for sec-
ond in the meet’s all-around lead-
erboards — not too shabby for an 
athlete performing in front of an O’Connell Center crowd of more than 6,000 for the ﬁ  rst time.
But perhaps the most compel-
ling storyline of her night played out center stage, in the midst of her ﬂ  oor routine.
She may have cracked the po-
dium, her second-place 9.900 fall-ing just shy of Baker’s 9.950.
She may have cracked into the 
Southeastern Conference’s weekly awards list, netting Freshman of 
the Week laurels for her showing 
against the Bruins.Freshman ﬁ  lling role of departed senior for UF gymnastics
MERRITT, MCLEAN AND 
HERNDON ARE FLORIDA 
SOFTBALL 'S RETURNING 
VETERANS.
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
The Gators’ 2016 outﬁ  eld is shaping up to 
be a mixed bag in terms of experience. After 
losing two key players from last year’s senior class in Bailey Castro and Briana Little, Florida will look to make up some ground with the 
addition of two highly-touted freshmen along 
with three upperclassmen returning as veter-ans.  
Kirsti Merritt — SeniorMerritt was a big part of the Gators’ success 
in 2015. Starting in all 67 games she played in, Merritt can hit for power and contact, as she hit nine home runs and sported a career-best .325 batting average. Even when she’s not 
hitting she’s able to get on base. She set the 
single-season record for most times getting hit by a pitch (35). In the end, Merritt had the team’s second highest on-base percentage, 
reaching base safely at a .498 rate.  On the 
defensive side of the ball, Merritt totalled 72 putouts and just one error, giving her a .987 ﬁ  elding percentage. 
Justine McLean — JuniorIn 2015, McLean saw action in 60 games 
and started in 33. In the games she played in, McLean had a huge impact. Her .360 batting average was second-best on the team, behind 
only Kelsey Stewart. The Rancho Cucamonga, 
California, native got her hits in bunches, as she notched ﬁ  ve multi-hit games over the course of the season. When she got on base, she usually made the most of her opportuni-ties, successfully stealing base 10 out of 11 times, making her one of only four Gators with double-digit swipes. She’ll look to make use of that speed in the outﬁ  eld, where she 
held a perfect 1.000 ﬁ  elding percentage, log-
ging 35 putouts in the process. 
Chelsea Herndon — Junior From Carrollton, Texas, Herndon ﬁ  nished 
her sophomore season with 31 appearances and two starts for the Gators. Although she UF brings in new, old outﬁ  elders 
Mississippi State's 
Johnny Zuppardo was wide open. 
Mike White was 
the ﬁ  rst to notice.
Standing on the sidelines 
behind Zuppardo, White 
watched as the ball left the forward’s hands, uncontested, and fell through the net.
The coach stepped onto the 
court and called a timeout.
“Are you serious?” he yelled at his 
players.
Over the course of a typical contest in 
the O’Connell Center, White is often the 
loudest member of his team.
He points and jumps, squats and paces. 
He stomps his feet when his players 
should be pressing on defense. 
He shouts out play calls when Florida’s 
offense grows too stagnant. He rubs his temple after a Florida turnover 
leads to an opposing layup.
He’s aggressive, intense 
and communicative, the same qualities that he’s tried to coax out of his players all season long.
After the game, however, 
his words were softer. 
Two in particular stood out.“I’m searching,” he said.
Eighteen games into the season, White 
is still searching for consistency. 
And eighteen games in, it's still difﬁ  -
cult to gauge if Florida is any good. 
Now is the time to prove it.The Gators have shown ﬂ  ashes of hav-
ing an elite-level defense, but they’ve also been lifeless in several games. 
They’re unable to shoot for weeks at a 
time, but then, every so often, they can’t Gators still lacking consistencySEE GYM,  PAGE 19
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 19 SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 19IT'S COHEN DOWNAaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Jenny Rowland congratulates Alicia Boren after her performance on bars during UF's  
win over UCLA on Friday in the O'Connell Center.Boren took second in all-around against UCLA
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb
18   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
ALABAMA IS 0-4 IN TRUE 
ROAD GAMES.
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Alabama’s schedule is unusu-
al.
The Crimson Tide (13-5, 2-3 
Southeastern Conference) have 
played a total of 18 games, but 
only four have been true road 
games.
Alabama is 0-4 in those games.No. 22 Florida (15-3, 3-2 SEC) 
will look to hand Alabama its fifth road loss when the Crimson Tide come to Gainesville tonight at 7.
Led by the sophomore duo of 
Hannah Cook and Karyla Middle-
brook — the Crimson Tide’s top 
scorers — Alabama is surging af-ter a 64-50 win over Georgia on Sunday.
Georgia defeated the Gators 
71-61 a week ago today in a game that wasn’t even as close as the final score would indicate. 
However, Florida is feeling 
motivated itself after a come-from-behind win against LSU on Sunday in which the Gators show-cased their versatility.“We had to win in a way that 
was not us and I think that really shows great growth of our team,” head coach Amanda Butler said.”
Florida is led by freshman 
Eleanna Christinaki and junior 
Ronni Williams, who both put 
up double figures in the win over LSU. 
At the beginning of the sea-
son, Christinaki was a virtual un-known in the SEC as a freshman from Athens, Greece. However, with plenty of film now available, teams like Alabama have a new 
tool to slow her and the rest of the 
Gators down, and vice versa. 
Butler said that this late in the 
season, the ability to do that kind of scouting makes every team more dangerous.
“It’s the time of year where… 
there’s not any secrets anymore,” she said. 
Armed with a more advanced 
scouting report, the Gators will try to defend their home court for the second time in four SEC games.
“It’s another opportunity at 
home, and we’ve got to handle our business,” Butler said.
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgGators continue SEC schedule against improving Tide
By Sean Doty
Sports Writer
As Florida’s swimming and diving team 
prepares to host its final home meet of the 
season against Auburn’s No. 7 ranked men’s 
team and No. 10 ranked women’s team, 
Gators head coach Gregg Troy is focused on shaving some seconds off this weekend. 
“The whole thing right now is we have 
got to get faster,” Troy said. “We are not as fast as we need to be. We need to get faster.” 
One reason for the team’s desire to im-
prove their times is the fact that this will be 
the last opportunity until March for Florida 
swimmers to qualify for the Olympic trials. 
In their last meet against Florida State, 
sophomores Caeleb Dressel (100-meter but-
terfly) and Jan Switkowski (200-meter but-
terfly) along with redshirt-junior Georgia Hohmann (100-meter and 200-meter back-strokes) all posted times fast enough to earn a spot in the Olympic trials. 
To date, a total of seven swimmers from 
both teams have qualified for the NCAA 
Championships in March.
While swimmers on both teams want to 
improve their individual times this week-
end, Troy believes that if the Gators focus 
too much on aiming for faster times, they 
will place unnecessary pressure on them-selves.
“It’s about having fun and racing,” Troy said. “If we take care of the process and just work on getting better and improving on the little things, we’ll go faster.” 
Saturday’s meet will also be the final 
home meet for 16 swimmers from both Flor-ida teams. 
Among those seniors are Natalie Hinds 
and Jessica Thielmann. 
Hinds has qualified for the NCAA Cham-
pionships in the 100-meter freestyle event and is currently pending qualification in four other events, while Thielmann is cur-
rently pending qualification in three events. 
Both will be honored before the start of the meet along with UF’s other seniors.
This Saturday’s meet will not be an easy 
swim for the Gators. 
Even though the Auburn men’s team fell 
to No. 1 ranked Texas in their last meet on Jan. 7, the Longhorns only managed to pull off a slim 156-136 victory over the Tigers. 
Meanwhile, the Auburn women’s team 
will be swimming with momentum after easily defeating Arkansas 142-95 this past Saturday.
“It’s just a great opportunity for us to 
see a little higher level of competition from what we have seen so far this semester,” Troy said. 
The Gators have won their last three 
meets, dating back to Nov. 6 against South Carolina. 
While both teams will be challenged 
against a formidable conference opponent, 
coach Troy and his team are looking for-
ward to a competitive senior day matchup. 
“It’s nice to see them have a chance to go 
out at home against a good competitor and sometimes a senior meet is against a team 
that isn’t as competitive,” Troy said.
 “We like to see one as competitive and 
I think that adds more to the competition.” 
@TheRealSeanDotyFlorida swimming and diving hosts final home meet of season
Alligator File Photo
Florida’s Caeleb Dressel jumps into the pool at the start of the 200-yard breaststroke event during Day 3 of the 2014 Pinch 
A Penny Invitational.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida’s Eleanna Christinaki dribbles the ball during UF’s 53-45 win against LSU on Jan. 17 in the O’Connell Center.
But, most importantly, she 
managed to crack a smile.
“In the gym, they’re all help-
ing me to learn to smile and help-
ing me to enjoy floor more, and just gymnastics itself,” Boren said. “Because, when you smile, 
they say that you have fun, and 
then you perform better and you do better, get a better score.”
And if a simple grin makes all 
the difference, the Florida Gators gymnastics team may have found an heir to Kytra Hunter’s throne. 
“That’s good. That’s exactly 
(what we need). It kind of re-minded me of a past dynamic duo that I used to be a part of,” Bridget Sloan said, alluding to the two-time Honda Award win-
ner and UF graduate Hunter. 
“So, welcome to the dynamic-duo team.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19  
Sloan: 'W elcome to the 
dynamic duo team'Gators bring in two touted freshman
seem to miss.
After Florida's win over Mis-
sissippi State on Tuesday, White 
admitted the Gators have gotten 
better, if only in increments. 
Through the season’s first nine 
games, UF averaged a 41.3-per-
cent shooting clip from the field, 
while shooting above 42 percent in just three games.
In their last nine games, the 
Gators have averaged a slightly 
better 43.1 percent mark, and 
managed to shoot 42 percent or better six times.
But the Gators didn’t display 
consistency at home against the Bulldogs on Tuesday, allowing the only Southeastern Conference team with a winless conference record a five-point lead at half-
time.
Just three days earlier, the 
Gators led for the entire contest 
against Ole Miss.
Florida’s coaches and players 
were far from satisfied with the three-point win over the Bull-dogs.
“I mean, it’s Mississippi State, 
no disrespect to them at all, but they’re at the bottom of the league. That’s basically it,” for-ward Devin Robinson said after the game. “…We didn’t come in here with the right mentality we 
were supposed to come out with.”
Even so, if the season ended 
today, Florida would qualify for 
the NCAA Tournament with a RPI of .6256, which ranks 19th in the 
nation.
The bad news is, the Gators 
are entering one of their toughest 
stretches of the season. 
Even though five of UF’s next 
seven games are at home, its op-ponents over that span have a combined 78-43 record, including No. 6 West Virginia (15-3).
If ever there was a time for 
Florida to find its groove, to settle into a streak of consistency that allows White to stop his search-
ing, it would be after Tuesday’s 
disappointing game against Mis-sissippi State.
“I do think we’re a lot more 
consistent than we were earlier in 
the year,” White said. 
“But we’re streaky with all of 
it. We are.”
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.
org and follow him on Twitter  
@icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg 17only had 19 at bats for UF last sea-
son, she holds a career batting av-
erage of .257. Herndon’s biggest hit came against Baylor, when she launched a walk-off grand slam into the stands to open UF’s champion-ship run in 2014.
Amanda Lorenz — Freshman Coming from Moorpark, Califor-
nia, Lorenz is one of the new faces for the Gators. Before coming to UF, the freshman was ranked the No. 1 recruit in FloSoftball's Class of 
2015. When she attended Moorpark 
High School, Lorenz had a .592 bat-ting average and hit a whopping 39 home runs for her career, according to MaxPreps. In the field, she capped off her high school career by only committing two errors over four sea-sons, giving her a solid .969 fielding 
percentage, according to MaxPreps. 
Lorenz will be looking to continue the same success at UF that she saw in high school, which earned her 2014 Los Angeles Daily News Player of the Year honors. 
Lily Mann — FreshmanThe Gators will be getting a new 
outfielder in freshman Lily Mann. 
From St. Cloud, Florida, Mann grad-
uated from Harmony High School, where she held an impressive .660 batting average during her senior season, according to MaxPreps. Her hitting also won her 2015 Florida Class 7A Offensive Player of the Year honors. Mann brings a combination of speed and power to the plate, 
as she stole 30 bases and hit three 
home runs last year. She also tied for second in her classification for steals in 2014. She’ll need to take advan-tage of that speed in the outfield; she had a .952 fielding percentage over her junior and senior seasons, only making three errors in that two-year span. 
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org 
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
UF's Bridget Sloan performs an uneven bar routine during Flori-
da's win over UCLA on Friday in the O'Connell Center.Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
Kirsti Merritt bats during Florida's win against Illinois State last season at Katie Seashole Pressly Stadium. 
SOFTBALL,  from pg 17GYM,  from pg 17
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Florida's Devin Robinson attempts a layup during UF's 81-78 win over Mississippi State on Jan. 19 in the O'Connell Center.
20   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016
