We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 33 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
Meet Florida’s basketball team
See breakdown and analysis on Devin 
Robinson and the rest of UF’s forwards and centers, pg. 14
Comedian Bill Bur to perform stand-up in GNV
See our interview, pg. 8
Fan of “Stranger Things”?
Check out our drinking game if you’re 21 and older, pg. 10Follow us for Hurricane Matthew 
updates 
Tweet us @TheAlligator and read our stories
online at alligator.org
UF, SANTA FE COLLEGE 
AND ALACHUA COUNTY 
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WILL 
CLOSE FRIDAY.
By Paige Fry and 
Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writers
By 2:24 p.m. Wednesday, one 
Gainesville Publix was on its last 
shipment of water.
Sharanya Contois, a grocery re-
plenishment associate at the 3100 
SW 35th Blvd. supermarket, had 
been working since 4 a.m. to keep water bottles on the shelf. But as she restocked the ﬁ  nal two dozen 
gallons of water, she knew more 
wouldn’t be coming until Saturday.
“We’ll probably wind up run-
ning out,” she said.
Throughout the day Wednesday, 
Gainesville residents started pre-paring for the arrival of Hurricane 
Matthew. By 5 p.m., UF, Santa Fe College and Alachua County Public Schools announced their campuses would be closed Friday.
As of press time, the National 
Hurricane Center estimated there is a 70-percent chance Gainesville will experience winds greater than 39 mph. Gainesville could see these winds Friday morning through Sat-urday morning.
As of the 8 p.m. NHC advisory, 
Matthew’s eye is projected to pass along Florida’s east coast, with Gainesville in the western part of the “cone of uncertainty.”
By late Wednesday morning, UF Physical Plant Division workers re-
moved loose palm fronds from the 
front of Library West. A white tarp 
was placed outside Marston Science Library to keep water from entering, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said.
Student Nighttime Auxiliary 
Patrol will stop running after mid-night Thursday, according to a UF alert. Gainesville’s Regional Transit System bus service will suspend on-campus service while UF is closed, 
and city buses will shut down when 
winds reach 35 mph.
UF dining halls will close at 
midnight Thursday and will reopen 
when UF deems it safe to do so.
As of press time, the noon UF 
vs. Louisiana State University foot-ball game is expected to continue as scheduled. A ﬁ  nal decision will be made by 1 p.m. today. UF has no plans to cancel class 
Thursday, as of press time.
“If we receive information that 
raises the concern of safety on campus, we certainly would have to revisit the decisions that we’ve 
made,” Sikes said.
Gainesville emergency shel-
ters will open today. The special-
needs shelter for those who need Monitoring Matthew: Gainesville prepares for the storm
THE CAMPAIGN RALL Y 
WILL TAKE PLACE NEXT 
WEEK.
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Donald Trump, the Republican 
presidential candidate, will hold a 
campaign rally Oct. 12 in Ocala.
The rally will begin at noon at 
the Southeastern Livestock Pavil-ion, located at 2232 NE Jacksonville Road, said Denise Alexander, the 
facility operations manager for the 
venue.
While the event is not listed on 
Trump’s campaign website, Alex-ander said a representative for the 
campaign contacted her Monday 
and told her to reserve Oct. 12 for a rally and send the campaign a con-tract to look over. 
The Marion County Attorney’s 
Ofﬁ  ce approved a contract later that afternoon allowing Trump to speak. Tickets will be available through the campaign’s website.
“This is a once-in-a-lifetime op-
portunity for us to have a Republi-can candidate for president of the United States,” she said.
Nearly a month after Trump’s 
running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, held a rally in The Villages, Florida, Alexander said Trump’s rally would give voters in North 
Central Florida a rare opportunity 
to hear Trump speak in person. The Villages is located near Ocala.
As is the case with most Trump 
rallies, Alexander said she expects to see protesters at the Ocala rally but added that she’s used to it. Whenever circus performers book shows at the pavilion, she said an-
imal-rights protesters often appear.
This, Alexander said, will be no 
different. 
Once details are conﬁ  rmed, a 
Trump staffer will visit the venue 
and run through logistics and se-curity protocol. Alexander said she will work closely with the Marion County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce and Ocala 
Police to secure the venue, which Trump to 
hold rally in Ocala
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
After being confronted with racial slurs 
Tuesday night, a nationally competitive UF 
Bollywood dance group took to social media to express their shock. 
Gator Adaa, a dance group of 13 women, 
was practicing for an upcoming competition outside Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium near the Heis-man Trophy winners’ statues when a group of men came out of the stadium. When they saw the group practicing, some of the men cheered, clapped and kept walking. But two stayed behind, Gator Adaa member Shaina Panchal said. 
The women continued to dance, expecting 
the spectators to leave. The men, who Panchal said looked to be in their 30s, stayed and be-gan dancing mockingly alongside the group.
Then one of the men walked up to Panchal 
and asked why the group wasn’t in India. 
“I explained that we were trying to bring 
our culture here to America,” the 21-year-old UF health science senior said. “He responded by saying, ‘Oh, kind of like an invasive spe-cies.’” 
The group was silent as the men walked 
away, she said. Sonam Parag, a 19-year-old 
co-captain of the dance group, said she was 
just trying to lead the team’s practice when it 
happened.
“I felt kind of attacked,” the UF microbiol-
ogy and cell science sophomore said.
Panchal took to Facebook to explain the 
situation and the group’s reaction. 
As of press time, her original post has re-
ceived more than 1,557 likes and 217 shares. 
The majority of the comments were support-
ive of Panchal and the dance group.
When racist comments are made on campus, UF Bollywood dance group reacts to racist slursMax Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
Haley Ehrlich, a 21-year-old UF anthropology and classical studies senior, buys some of the remain-
ing cases of water at Publix to bring to her family in Jacksonville on Wednesday afternoon. Accord-ing to Ehrlich, when her family tried to buy water in Jacksonville, it was sold out. “I just don’t know how much to bring, ” she said, pulling water from the shelf.
SEE TRUMP,  PAGE 4SEE MATTHEW,  PAGE 3
SEE DANCE,  PAGE 5They were compared to ‘invasive spe cies’Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  83° LOW  74°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘People on the Move’
“People on the Move,” an exhibit 
about the migrant crisis, is on display this week on the Santa Fe College Breezeway. It will be in 
the Pugh Hall Ocora today until 
Friday. The exhibit is sponsored by Welcoming Gainesville as part of Welcoming Week.
UF Symphony Orchestra concert 
Thursday in memory of Arthur JenningsThe UF Symphony Orchestra, 
conducted by School of Music 
professor Raymond Chobaz, presents a concert in memo-ry of Arthur Jennings tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. The UF Symphony Orchestra, accompanied by Kevin Sharpe on the piano, will per-form songs by Bach, Beethoven 
and Bruckner. The concert is free 
and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu/orchestra.
Sign up to participate in Pop-Up 
Culture by Oct. 7In celebration of National Arts and Humanities Month, UF will 
hold Pop-Up Culture on the Plaza 
of the Americas on Oct. 13 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Pop-Up Culture will create spontaneous acts of culture that will increase aware-ness, appreciation and excitement for the arts and humanities at UF. In past years, Pop-Up Culture has had everything from swing danc-
ing to debating. If your group is 
interested in participating, please complete the form at arts.ufl.edu/forms/pop-up-culture by Friday. If you have questions, please con-tact atprgradassistant.ufcota@gmail.com. To learn more about UF’s celebration of National Arts and Humanities Month, visit arts.
ufl.edu/ahmonth. 
Free English classes and citizen-
ship classes
The Latina Women’s League is offering free English classes on Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the Alachua County Millhopper Library 
Branch. Anyone looking to im-
prove their conversational English can attend. The league is also of-fering free citizenship classes ev-ery Thursday until Oct. 20, from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., at the library, during which attendees can learn about the process of citizenship. For more information, visit latina-
womensleague.org.
Mid-Autumn Festival presented 
by CASA
UF’s Chinese American Student Association brings you its an-nual Mid-Autumn Festival show Sunday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Mid-Autumn, similar to Thanksgiving in the U.S., is a harvest festival that seeks to cel-ebrate family and food under the 
brightest full moon of the year. 
Immerse yourself in a night of culture through our food, cultural activities, stories and performanc-es. It is a completely free event — there is no entry fee of any kind, with free food and raffles. Doors open at 6 p.m., and the show starts promptly at 6:30 p.m.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 33
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
supplemental oxygen opens at 11 
a.m. at the Alachua County Senior Center, located at 5701 NW 34th Blvd. The general-population shel-
ters will open at 5 p.m. at Rawlings 
Elementary, 3500 NE 15th Street, 
and the Easton Newberry Sports Complex, 24880 NW 16th Ave.
Those in need of transportation 
to an emergency shelter should call 352-955-2575 or 352-955-2576. In-
county residents can call the rumor-
control hotline at 311 or 352-264-6557 if outside Alachua County.
As UF planned to close facilities, 
Grace Marketplace prepared to open 
its doors. Jon DeCarmine, the opera-
tions director at the homeless shel-ter, said although it normally houses 115 homeless residents, the shelter 
will accommodate the additional 150 
people in Dignity Village, an outdoor 
tent city.
For late arrivals, the shelter will 
not close its front gate Thursday. The 
gate typically closes at 7 p.m.
During meals at Grace Market-
place, staff and volunteers will make 
announcements about the storm so residents are aware, DeCarmine said.
“Word of mouth here is more ef-
fective here than a high-school caf-
eteria,” he said.
@paigexfry 
pfry@alligator.org
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org MATTHEW,  from pg. 1UF, Santa Fe plan to close on Friday as shelters begin to open
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff 
A woman walks out of Weimer Hall on Wednesday afternoon as the rain begins to fall at about 5 pm.
CANCELLATIONS DUE TO HURRICANE MATTHEW
• UF’s Alumni Association will be giving out “Beat LSU” 
T-shirts today at 10 a.m. instead of Friday.
• Coffee With a Cop, with Alachua County Sheriff’s deputies and Gainesville Police ofﬁ  cers, will be rescheduled to later this month.
• UF’s dining halls will close at midnight Thursday and reopen when safe.
• UF, Santa Fe College and Alachua County Public Schools won’t have classes Friday.
• Regional Transit System buses will shut down at 35 mph winds.Conservative political com-
mentator T omi Lahren announced 
Tuesday that she will be attending the football game this Saturday.
She made the announcement 
on Twitter saying, “Who is going to the LSU-UF game this weekend? @DonaldJTrumpJr and I will be there! Retweet!” 
She will reportedly be joined by 
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s son, Donald Trump, Jr. Lahren also announced on Twit-ter that the pair plan on livestream-
ing from the footbal game using 
Facebook Live.  
Media representatives for both 
political ﬁ  gures did not return re-quests for comment before press time.
- Catherine Dickson4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
can hold 12,000 people.
“We certainly want this to be a peace-
ful event,” she said.
If he hadn’t already experienced a 
Trump rally before, 21-year-old Yousef 
Alghawi said he would consider attending the Ocala event.
The UF political science and English 
junior attended Trump’s rally in Sunrise, 
Florida, on Aug. 10 and said it was an in-
valuable experience despite his contempt 
for the candidate’s ﬁ  rebrand rhetoric.
“Once was enough for me, honestly,” 
Alghawi said. “It was one of the most ter-rifying events I have ever been to. There 
was a lot of prejudice, and some people 
were wearing anti-LGBT shirts.”
Still undecided between Democratic 
candidate Hillary Clinton and Green Par-ty candidate Jill Stein, Alghawi said he 
would encourage registered voters to at-
tend the rally.
“It’s invaluable,” he said. “He is a con-
tender for the presidency. To act like he’s 
not or to try to lessen that is not only igno-
rant — it’s dangerous.”
Angel Gonzalez, a 
19-year-old UF politi-
cal science sophomore and Trump supporter, 
said he has watched virtually all of Trump’s campaign speeches via 
live stream and once 
drove from Gainesville to Tampa to see 
Trump in person.
Gonzalez said the rally he attended 
was a stark contrast from what Trump 
critics and some media outlets have por-
trayed the events to be.“It was a great environment,” he said. 
“It was super fun. The guy knows how to work a crowd. (He’s) super charismatic.”
After voting for Bernie Sanders in the 
Democratic primaries, Gonzalez said he 
realized Sanders would not trounce Clin-
ton and threw his support to Trump.
He said Trump’s anti-establishment, 
nationalist ideals resonate with him.
“I think Trump can be a really sym-
bolic victory,” he said. “It’s like a Brexit vote.”
Gonzalez said it’s important for eligi-
ble voters to review both candidates be-
fore they draw conclusions and resort to 
hatred for other voters. 
“It’s just a level of respect that needs 
to be had between both parties,” he said. 
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.orgTRUMP,  from pg. 1The rally venue can hold up to 12,000 people
Trump
Trump Jr.
Tomi Lahren, Donald Trump Jr., to 
appear at weekend football game
Lahren
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
students can report it to the Bias 
Education and Response Team, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an email. 
The Bias Education and Re-
sponse Team works with other campus organizations to provide appropriate resources and help to affected groups or communities.
“People don’t want to believe 
racism exists, when in reality it 
happens every day, especially on 
our UF campus,” Panchal said. 
The dance group plans to talk 
to UF’s Asian Paciﬁ  c Islander 
American Affairs today about the 
comment and how to proceed, 
said Bhavika Goyal, a co-captain of Gator Adaa.Goyal, 19, said she was stand-
ing next to Panchal during the confrontation. 
“Me, along with my team, 
thinks that everybody has a right to be respected for who they are and where they come from,” the UF applied physiology and kinesi-ology sophomore said. 
“We felt like we weren’t al-
lowed to expressed our passion for dance.”
Panchal said she regrets not re-
sponding to the man. 
“Not even in a mean way,” 
she said. “Just something to make him understand that what he said 
wasn’t OK.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgDANCE,  from pg. 1It happened by the stadium
ONL Y SIX PEOPLE MET 
FOR 20 MINUTES.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Unsure of whether it was the 
rain or the short notice that caused 
a low turnout, six Gainesville resi-dents met for about 20 minutes Wednesday evening to protest the 
delayed relocation of the “Old Joe” 
Confederate statue.
Standing at the corner of East 
University Avenue and North Main Street, the 112-year-old statue, which depicts a Confederate sol-dier, ﬁ  rst came under ﬁ  re in 2015.
Following the fatal shooting of 
nine black church parishioners by 
a white man in Charleston, South 
Carolina, last year, some Gainesville residents asked the county to re-move the statue, which is located next to the Alachua County Admin-istration building. 
But it has yet to be relocated.“It’s been a long, continuous 
process,” said Shirley Roseman, who organized the event for the Alachua County Peace Coalition. “Everyone has personal opinions about what they think should hap-pen to it, but we mostly just want it out of the heart of downtown.”
The ﬁ  rst suggested move was to 
the Matheson History Museum, but the museum declined to take it, cit-ing the high cost associated with the move, so the decision was stalled.
Undeterred by Wednesday’s low 
turnout, Roseman urged the county to continue its effort. The next step would be proposing to move it to 
the Veterans Memorial Park, she 
said.
She said the hardest part about ﬁ  nding a new home for the statue is the cost. City ofﬁ  cials estimate it will cost about $36,000 to move it.
“Since it was put there back in 
the day using private money, the city wants it to be moved using pri-vate money,” she said. “They want the money to be fundraised.”
Melissa Munkel, a nurse at UF 
Health Shands Hospital, said she feels that in a town that prides itself on being progressive, Old Joe sends 
the opposite message, especially 
during a time of heightened racial tension.
“With everything going on these 
days, it needs to be placed some-where where it has context, not in Gainesville’s ground zero,” the 29-year-old said. “I’ve never liked it. I think it’s absolutely absurd.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org 
Low turnout at ‘Old Joe’ statue protestThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Despite GOP re-
Pence-ance, Pence 
stays with Trump
It was astonishing, the vice presidential debate between Tim 
Kaine and Mike Pence. It looked oddly familiar. It looked nothing like the debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump a few weeks ago. No, this debate was full of sub-stance, political theory and, for the most part, well-devel-
oped arguments. Kaine and Pence got on that stage and actually looked like what two respectable candidates ought to. It seems the debate we watched Tuesday is the debate we had tradition-ally been watching. For once, we felt nostalgic.
During the debate, Kaine asked Pence several times to de-
fend some of the things Trump has said in his past and dur-ing this campaign cycle. Examples include (but sadly are not limited to) Trump saying he would release his tax returns if he ran for president and that women should be punished for 
choosing to terminate a pregnancy. Pence’s defense worked one 
of two ways: He would blatantly lie to the American public and say Trump never said those things, or he would say something along the lines of, “Well, he didn’t mean that.”
This is confusing. One of the most common arguments we’ve 
heard for Trump is he “means what he says.” Despite this, the Republican Party, Pence and his supporters seem like they’re constantly re-interpreting Trumpisms because, well, “he didn’t mean that.” Either he means what he says or he doesn’t, dear 
readers. Not sure which option is more terrifying.  
Noticing that Pence was learning how to become a bulls--- 
artist of Trumpian proportions, famed conservative radio host 
Glenn Beck posted a Facebook rant including amazing quotes like, “Come on … you and everyone know he said ALL of those things,” and, “There are better and acceptable answers, but you chose to simply lie.”
When Beck calls a Republican leader a liar and a verbal ma-
nipulator, he’s probably right. The Trump-Pence campaign lies 
so often that even Beck, who over the last 10 years has been 
responsible for the rise of the Tea Party movement and a variety of outright conspiracy theories, has pointed it out. The Tea Par-ty movement and conspiracy theories that, mind you, probably concocted the cesspool of primordial ooze the Trump campaign crawled out of.
It seems that everywhere you look, conservative leadership 
is abandoning its party. Captain Trump has lit the S.S. GOP on ﬁ  re, and while some people, like Pence, are staying onboard 
to see how far they can get before they inevitably sink, some 
smart ones took the life rafts. Mitt Romney, George H. W. Bush and even Beck cannot in good conscience stand behind Trump. Pence can, but he has to lie and squirm his way out of it.
Kaine was not without his shortcomings either. We’re very 
critical of Trump interrupting Clinton repeatedly over the course of the previous debate and wish we saw a calmer demeanor in Kaine two nights ago. Kaine’s explanations also seemed re-petitive, long-winded and even scripted. While there’s nothing 
wrong with preparing for a debate (in fact, it’s encouraged), it’s 
understandable why common folk see this as cold, rigid and distant. It looked, for a minute, like Kaine lost the debate.
But be patient, and we think the tides will turn. Kaine forced 
Pence to react to some pretty bad Trumpisms, and as mentioned previously, Kaine’s responses deﬂ  ected the responsibility of an-swering those questions. Yet, despite the absurdity of this de-bate, it still looked better than anything we’ve seen in a long time. Technology lets you develop diﬀ  erent relationships
I’m going to come out and admit something 
I usually only share with close friends: I 
role-play online. Now before you start thinking I spend time on Neopets forums, let me brieﬂ  y explain the type of role-
playing I do. I role-play through Tumblr. Each character I play has a different blog, and I’m part of a larger group in which each person has a handful of characters with their own blogs. When it comes to actually role-playing, it goes like this: I write a scene through my character’s perspective, then whoever I am role-playing with writes the same scene through their character’s point of view and advances it. This keeps on going until the thread ﬁ  nishes.
I’ve been doing this for ﬁ  ve years now and have been 
a member of many different groups.
It’s a fun hobby. I get to practice my writing, work on 
my characterization and interact with other like-minded people dedicated to storytelling and character develop-ment.
I’ve met some good friends this way. We have a 
group chat on Skype that is constantly in use. We talk about all kinds of things — our characters, favorite mov-ies, struggle to ﬁ  nd jobs, anxieties, fears, relationships, etc. We come from different stages in life, backgrounds and places in the world, but we are all bonded by a com-mon love of writing.
I met two of my role-play friends in person a month 
ago. One of them I have known for ﬁ  ve years, the oth-er for only a year. I was a bit nervous; warnings from grade-school internet-safety guides ﬂ  ashed in my mind — what if they were actually middle-aged serial killers? But also, what if they weren’t like how I imagined them? What if I wasn’t like how they imagined me? What if we just didn’t get along?
The minute I got out of the car and they ran out to greet me, we all hugged and laughed, and I instantly felt my anxieties slip away. Because I knew them. We had written together, we had talked about our lives and we shared our trou-bles and our joys. I had talked to both of them almost every day for the past year. Sure, their voices were different from what I imagined, but we were able to slip into conversation eas-ily, make jokes, and when it got dark, we went to the beach and saw the most brilliant starry night I have ever seen.
A lot of people — mostly older generations, 
but even my own — like to claim that social media and technology ruin close, personal relationships, and if it is an interaction through a screen, it isn’t the same thing as a “real” friendship. Maybe that’s the way it is for some people, but when I make good friends without meet-ing them in real life, get to instantly message my best friend who I have not seen for a year because she goes to school in Massachusetts and get to reconnect with a childhood friend I hadn’t talked to closely since the age of seven there is no way I believe that social media distills relationships. Would I rather be able to see these people and hang out in person? Well yeah, of course. But the reality is that I can’t often do that.
Technology and social media have allowed me to 
make friends I would have never met otherwise. They’ve allowed me to maintain friendships that would have been difﬁ  cult to do just by letter or phone call and al-lowed me to reconnect with friends I once thought were lost. Of course we will always prefer interacting in per-son, but saying fulﬁ  lling, close relationships cannot be made or maintained through a screen is a thought of the past. The world is changing, and the way we make and keep friends is evolving.
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and computer sci-
ence senior. Her column appears on Thursdays. 
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Late Monday night, an angry mob as-
sembled on the streets of Pennsylva-nia State University.
There was outrage. Bedlam. Pan-
demonium. Students carried baseball 
bats and lacrosse sticks. They wanted ven-geance. With numerous violent encounters between minority communities and police ofﬁ  cers in 2016, mass protests have become commonplace, springing up from Charlotte, North Carolina, to Tulsa, Oklahoma, to Los Angeles.
On the surface, this might have looked 
like an instance of racial tensions boiling over again.
But it wasn’t.The students at Penn State weren’t seek-
ing social justice. They were after something else: clowns.
Yes, you read that correctly.Apparently, reports spread online about 
someone dressed like a clown on campus at night. One thing led to another. Mass hyste-ria ensued.
While the reaction of the students was both sudden and somewhat sur-prisingly vitriolic, this clown sighting wasn’t an isolated occur-rence.
There has been a recent wave 
of creepy clown sightings across the country. Not in their natural habitat like the fair, the circus or kids’ birthday parties, but in plac-es no clowns should venture.
It all began in South Carolina in 
August, when a person dressed as a clown was hanging around an apartment complex and trying to lure children into the woods.
Harmless, right?Just some guy dressed like a Stephen 
King character taking a stroll and corrupting the youth. No problem.
But the rash of incidents was just begin-
ning.
A week later, police in Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, received a call about anoth-er clown trying to entice children into the forest.
Before I continue, let me say this: I don’t have anything against clowns. Many people fear them, and did even before these weird sightings began. But I don’t.
Now if, for whatever reason, 
the clowns were lifesize, poten-tially pedophiliac spiders running around trying to lure kids into the woods like in "Harry Potter," I would currently be exercising my Second Amendment rights instead 
of writing this column.
But I digress.I also follow the “live-and-let-live” phi-
losophy. If someone has an odd clown fe-tish: Hey, good for them. I don’t care; it’s well within their personal liberties.
I don’t ask for much, but please don’t 
meander around at dusk trying to cajole children into the forest. A line has to be drawn somewhere.
Yet the incidences keep escalating.On Sept. 15, two high schools in Ala-
bama were placed on lockdown after clowns threatened students, posted gun emojis on Facebook and were seen on campus.
Three people, including two minors, 
have been arrested in this case.
Several occurrences have also been re-
ported of clowns chasing and harassing ci-vilians. The New York Times reported last week that 12 arrests spanning 10 states have been made.
It’s difﬁ  cult to predict how much longer 
these incidents will endure.
With Halloween just around the corner, 
it’s likely that sightings will increase before subsiding. 
So with that in mind, it is wise to stock 
up on essential supplies. Conveniently, Hur-ricane Matthew might make that a necessity.
Batteries, canned food, semi-automatic 
weaponry, precious metals and all 11 sea-sons of “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia,” are good to have on hand.  
And pray that the clowns haven’t begun 
to organize.
It’s only a matter of time.Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His 
column appears on Thursdays.
Popular culture shapes a lot of the com-
edy around us, obviously. Plenty of TV shows make references to current events, and plenty more harken to oth-er decades to appeal to an older crowd. 
Weekly shows like “Saturday Night Live” thrive off of popular culture; it’s a show that’s stayed relevant for more than 40 years by do-ing so. Period pieces take the culture of a past era and convey that era to a modern audience.
 Take “Forrest Gump.” It’s deemed a clas-
sic movie. It’s timeless. Despite its settings in 
decade after decade, it conveys and almost teaches to the audience the culture of the set-ting. In this way, the movie is inclusive, and anyone from any era with a vague knowledge of recent American history can watch it and catch the jokes. 
However, many works of art don’t take 
the time to convey popular culture and rather assume the audience knows every reference. “Saturday Night Live” is a prime example, because it’s produced for a contemporary au-dience. Watching an episode from the ‘70s might not be as gut-busting as an episode from last week be-cause you don’t quite pick up the subtleties of the more nuanced jokes. This is to say those works of art may not be timeless. 
A distant-future society may 
look on these works and consider them “of that time” and pay no mind to them. That quality is not inherently a bad thing. “Saturday Night Live” is providing plenty of potent commentary, as are shows like “The Daily Show” and “Last Week Tonight.” 
I do, however, take a certain pride in writ-
ing and reading “timeless” works of art, works that can’t be pinned down to a particular time or reality. Every joke comes out of a vacuum; the audience doesn’t have to come in with any prior knowledge to indulge in the art. These works exist in their own reality and don’t rely on any other work of art or any piece of popular culture except to resonate with an audience. You know what work of comedy exists in a vacuum? “Red vs. Blue.”
“Red vs. Blue” is an episodic 
web series in its 14th season, pro-
duced by entertainment company 
Rooster Teeth. “Red vs. Blue” fo-
cuses on the antics of two groups of soldiers who are commanded to 
ﬁ  ght each other for a reason unbeknownst to them. 
The series is produced through machinima: 
ﬁ  lming a work of art through a video game. In this case, “Red vs. Blue” is ﬁ  lmed using the “Halo” series of video games and, to an extent, 
exists in that video game's world. In stark jux-
taposition to its presence in the ﬁ  rst-person-shooter action-oriented video game, “Red vs. Blue” is banter-heavy and action-light. 
It’s chieﬂ  y a character piece; the show 
tends to put by the wayside or totally ignore any sense of plot in favor of witty inter-char-acter banter. The jokes are potent and clever, but the reason the show has remained popular for so long is its presence in a vacuum. 
Disclaimer: the early seasons of “Red vs. 
Blue” use the word retard as an insult. The se-
ries has since dropped that behavior. Anyway.
With the exception of a few world-building 
details, the comedy comes strictly from the 
characters’ interactions. Grif is lazy, Caboose is foolish, Church is conceited and Simmons is a brown-nose. The dynamics these characters create are what drive the comedy, not refer-ences or in-jokes. The comedy, while vulgar, is organic. 
It’s an impressive feat for a series birthed 
before YouTube and ﬁ  lmed through the odd medium of machinima in a video game — during a time before video games really broke into the mainstream. No matter how much the medium of the art makes you feel alienated or foreign, give the series a shot. 
Michael Smith is a mechanical engineer-
ing junior. His column usually appears on 
Tuesdays. Quit clownin’ around, America: Draw a line between clown fun and clown harm
Comedy in a vacuum: What makes for timeless comedic entertainment?Column
ColumnBrian Lee
opinions@alligator.org
Michael Smith
opinions@alligator.orgKeep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Gainesville hosts fall festival
It raises awareness for environmental groups, pg. 10THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Music Roundup
The hottest new albums, pg. 9By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer
When it comes to Bill Burr’s 
stand-up routine, nothing is off limits.
“I’ll be talking about every-
thing from election stuff to talking gorillas to the Illuminati and mak-ing sandwiches,” he said of his upcoming Gainesville show. Origi-nally scheduled for 7 p.m. Friday 
at the Curtis M. Phillips Center for 
the Performing Arts, it has now been postponed due to Hurricane Matthew. 
Burr, who has been active in 
the comedy world for 24 years, has released four TV specials, hosts the popular comedy podcast “Monday Morning Podcast” and 
has his own animated show on 
Netﬂ  ix called “F is for Family.” He 
has also acted across TV and ﬁ  lm, including roles in “Breaking Bad,” “New Girl,” “Daddy’s Home” and 
“The Heat.” Now, he is bring-
ing his humor and his stories to 
Gainesville in a return to the col-lege comedy scene. 
“I’m big into college sports and 
I love doing college campuses,” Burr said. “I think once you start getting a following your agent steers you toward doing theaters, but on occasion I do still like to do those; college kids are cool.” 
Burr, 48, grew up outside of 
Boston and got his big break on “Chappelle’s Show.” After tour-ing around the world for years, he now performs about 100 stand-up 
shows a year by his own estimate, 
and although he has dabbled in 
acting, he considers comedy his 
ﬁ  rst love. 
“If you watch an Oscars awards 
show from like 15 years ago on YouTube, like (with) half the peo-ple you’re like, ‘What ever hap-pened to that guy? Where did she 
go? Who is that?’ It’s too ﬁ  ckle,” 
he said. “As a stand-up, I work 
for myself, I’m self-employed and 
if I don’t rip people off and keep giving them their money’s worth, 
they’re going to keep coming back to see me, and I’ll never be unem-
ployed.”
Despite having worked on a 
number of TV shows, from sketch comedy to sitcoms to drama, Burr 
disagrees with those who see TV 
as more prestigious than stand-up. 
“I think it’s a big mistake in 
this business to build up a follow-ing and then completely abandon it because you got a TV show. I think some people view a TV 
show as higher than doing stand-
up and I don’t. I think stand-up is 
the coolest thing you could ever 
do,” he said. 
In addition to his comedy tour, 
Burr’s time is also heavily oc-cupied by “F is for Family,” an 
animated show that he co-created 
based off of stories from his child-hood.
Along with Michael Price, a 
writer and producer for “The Simpsons,” Burr is now working on season two of the show after season one debuted on Netﬂ  ix in 
December. Vince Vaughn serves 
as an executive producer for the 
show, which features voices from Burr, Laura Dern and Justin Long. 
When he has any spare time, 
Burr is frequently a guest on late-
night talk shows like “Conan” and 
“The Tonight Show Starring Jim-my Fallon.”
“When I was growing up it was 
great when comedians would do 
stand up but it was even better 
when they would sit and improv with the host,” he said. “Jimmy Fallon was a fun one to do but Conan is my main guy; when I go on his show, he’s the best.”
Tickets can be purchased on 
the UF Performing Arts website for $41 to $51. The box ofﬁ  ce will be closed Friday. 
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer 
Korean pop music (K-pop) has 
taken over global music charts in recent years. While many may think of Psy and his infamous single “Gangnam Style,” the list of notable K-pop musicians who are making their way into the American mu-sic market is ever growing. From quirky and cute love songs to hip-hop and rap jams, K-pop offers mu-sic everyone can ﬁ  nd enjoyable. But with several dozen K-pop groups re-leasing music constantly, it may be hard to keep up with all the latest tunes. Whether you’re a K-pop fa-natic or simply a little curious, here is a breakdown of some top artists to check out.
1. Exo — Exo is considered one 
of the most acclaimed groups in the 
K-pop industry. Started in 2011, the 
group is made up of nine members 
from both South Korea and China. 
They are notable for not only their 
vocals but strong dancing abilities 
as well. One of Exo’s most recent releases, “Lotto,” ranked No. 1 on Billboard’s World Digital Songs 
chart for Sept. 10. Another recent 
release, “Dancing King,” ranked No. 
2 on the chart for Oct. 8. Both songs have an electronic vibe and will eas-ily get stuck in your head with their 
catchy lyrics. Exo is a great choice 
for beginner K-Pop listeners.2. Blackpink — Blackpink de-
buted as a group in August with sin-
gles “Boombayah” and “Whistle.” 
Both songs went immediately to No. 
1 and No. 2, respectively, on Bill-
board’s World Digital Songs chart. 
Blackpink is not your typical girl 
group. Like the name implies, the 
group showcases a fusion of girly 
spunk and hip-hop vibes. Their mu-sic and dance performances stand out from the cookie-cutter routines 
one may expect from a girl group.
3. Got7 — Got7 is on the rise to 
being a household name in South 
Korea. The male group debuted just two years ago but have already gar-
nered international attention, some-
thing partly attributed to its diver-sity; the seven members hail from 
South Korea, China, Thailand and 
the U.S. Got7 recently released their 
second album, “Flight Log: Turbu-
lence,” on Sept. 27. “Hard Carry,” 
the ﬁ  rst single off the album, is a 
hip-hop-inﬂ  uenced track with elec-
tric beats and plenty of bass. Got7 
is known for mixing vocals and rap 
for a pop sound that’s typical of boy bands, but that also has an edge.
4. Red Velvet — Red Velvet 
debuted in 2014 and consists of 
ﬁ  ve female members. The group is 
known for its animated style and music videos. Red Velvet’s recent release, “Russian Roulette,” peaked 
at No. 2 on Billboard’s World Digital 
Songs chart for Sept. 24. The song, a bubbly techno track, was accom-
panied by a video that held true to 
the group’s quirky aesthetic, featur-
ing a storyline about friends killing 
friends for love.
5. 2PM — 2PM is one of K-pop’s 
classic acts, having been in the in-dustry since 2008. The group, made 
up of six members, has a more 
mature sound compared to most other groups. “Promise (I’ll be),” 2PM’s latest single, is a rhythm and 
blues ballad perfect for a rainy day 
or post-breakup. 2PM writes for an 
older audience, as members range from 26 to 28 years old, but the group’s work varies from upbeat 
dance tunes to soft, acoustic love 
songs.Comedian Bill Burr to perform stand-up in GNV
Five top K-pop groups to add to your playlist today
LOCAL
MUSICCourtesy to the Alligator
Bill Burr, a stand up comedian with roles in TV shows and film, will host a show in Gainesville 
in the near future. His original performance was postponed due to Hurricane Matthew. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
Opinions are like armpits: Everyone’s 
got them, and everyone thinks everyone 
else’s stink. And opinions about TV shows are even more contentious. 
TV-watching habits are formed by pref-
erence and, oftentimes, culture. However, where a show is conceived does not nec-essarily determine where it will ﬂ  ourish, and one would think television shows from English-speaking countries like the U.K. might translate seamlessly into U.S. cul-ture. However, it’s not always the language that needs translating.
For British shows like “The IT Crowd,” 
a comedy about nerds who work in the IT department of a company, and “The In-betweeners,” a comedy about a group of misﬁ  t friends, their American spinoffs were canceled before they could gather a follow-ing. Richard Ayoade, who played Maurice Moss from “The IT Crowd,” said he regret-ted participating in the U.S. spinoff at all. 
Perhaps the most famous U.K. spinoff 
made for the U.S. is “The Ofﬁ  ce.” Star-ring Steve Carell as the inimitable Michael Scott, the show ﬁ  rst featured Ricky Gervais as David Brent in the U.K. mockumentary. The original version lasted for two six-episode series and had two specials. The U.S. version struggled in its ﬁ  rst season to gain traction with viewers, but the show grew from there, creating indelible charac-
ters like Dwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson), 
Creed Bratton (Creed Bratton) and Kelly Kapoor (Mindy Kaling). It seems to this viewer that the “The Ofﬁ  ce” adapted well to U.S. audiences because the writers had the most boring setting to bounce jokes off of. Unfortunately for diehard fans, the show ended after nine seasons and more than 200 episodes. 
Some might not know that Netﬂ  ix’s 
hit political drama “House of Cards” was based on the 1990s U.K. miniseries of the same name. The miniseries lasted for four episodes and was ranked No. 84 in the 100 
Greatest British Television Programmes by 
the British Film Institute. It premiered days before a contentious election in the U.K. and appealed to the audience’s fascination with politics. In the U.S. version, Kevin Spacey stars as the character Francis Un-derwood, the majority whip in the House of Representatives. A tale of revenge, the show follows Underwood and his wife, 
Claire, as they attempt to take Washington, 
D.C., by storm. The reason the Netﬂ  ix ver-sion has thrived is probably for the same reason the U.K. version did: People want to look behind the veil of their countries. The U.S. version is expected to return for a ﬁ  fth season in 2017.
If you’re not prepared, watching Show-
time’s “Shameless” can be a shocking expe-
rience. The comedy was ﬁ  rst a staple in the 
U.K., lasting for 11 years under the same name, before it came to the U.S. The U.S. version premiered in 2011 and just start-ed its seventh season Oct. 2. In the U.K., the show is considered a black, or dark, comedy, a style of humor that makes light of things thought to be distasteful. While the two shows mirrored each other in the 
beginning, the U.S. version began to break 
away from the shadow cast from across the pond, garnering its own audience and sto-ry. The American show follows the Galla-gher family living in the South Side of Chi-cago, scamming and scraping by through life. William H. Macy stars as the deadbeat pathologically lying father, Frank, whose alcoholism and drug addiction attempt to 
topple his family of six children. 
Spinoffs come and go. Whether the 
jokes or storylines will translate is always 
a question. Sometimes, a series will get lucky with great writers and make its mark on the face of pop culture in countries all across the world. 
Some thoughts on American 
spinoﬀ  s from the U.K.  
TV
By Jack DaSilva
Avenue Writer
The past few weeks didn’t give us any re-
leases from “A-list” rappers, but that doesn’t 
mean that there wasn’t any quality music released. Check out these latest releases in music:
Mac Miller – “The Divine Feminine” - 
Sept. 16
I’ve been waiting for Mac Miller’s new 
album “The Divine Feminine” since I had 
a chance to interview him on my Sunday-
night show on Gainesville’s Magic 101.3. When talking about his album, Miller said the album would consist solely of love songs, 
which I found very interesting, and he deﬁ  -
nitely wasn’t lying. Miller’s relationship with 
pop star Ariana Grande is relatively new to the public, which is why an album full of love songs makes sense. I’ve become a fan over 
the past year, and “The Divine Feminine” is 
an impressive follow up to “GO:OD AM.”
Audio Push – “90951” – Sept. 23
I’ve never heard of Audio Push until re-
cently, but I was seeing a lot of respected art-
ists talk about their album so I decided to give 
it a listen. Audio Push is a hip-hop duo from 
California, and while they’ve released a num-ber a mixtapes and an Extended Play, “90951” is their debut album released under Hit-Boy’s 
“Hits Since ‘87” record label. “90951” has an 
underground, independent-release feel to it, 
which is refreshing since a lot of the hip-hop music being put out is starting to blend to-gether. Take a listen to this album if you’re looking for a new artist to get into.
Mick Jenkins – “The Healing Compo-
nent” – Sept. 23
A lot of people were upset that Mick Jen-
kins wasn’t a member of this year’s XXL Freshmen class and felt that he was snubbed. Jenkins has been making noise in the game for a few years and ﬁ  nally released his debut album “The Healing Component” on Sept. 23. He has stayed true to his underground roots despite being signed to Cinematic Music Group. Jenkins is a talented artist and his al-bum is deﬁ  nitely worth checking out. 
Ty Dolla $ign – “Campaign” – Sept. 23Ty Dolla $ign dropped his mixtape “Cam-
paign” following the release of “Free TC” last year, which I thought was subpar. The order of the songs on “Free TC” didn’t ﬂ  ow and the 
entire album was poorly put together. How-
ever, “Campaign” is a major improvement 
from his last release, with great features com-
ing from Future, Migos, Travis Scott, 24hrs, Trey Songz, Wiz Khalifa and more. I enjoyed 
“Campaign” from start to ﬁ  nish and while I 
like Ty Dolla $ign as an artist, it’s the ﬁ  rst 
time I can say that about a project of his.
Francis and the Lights – “Farewell, 
Starlite!” – Sept. 24
Francis and the Lights ﬁ  rst caught my eye 
when they released their video for “Friends,” which features Bon Iver and Kanye West. Since then, they’ve also been featured on Chance The Rapper’s “Coloring Book” album 
and played at Chance’s Magniﬁ  cent Coloring 
Day Festival a couple weeks ago. “Farewell, 
Starlite!” is really dope album and a strong debut from Francis and the Lights.
Bon Iver – “22, A Million” – Sept. 30
Bon Iver hasn’t released an album in ﬁ  ve 
years but the wait is ﬁ  nally over. Bon Iver 
released “22, A Million” last week and I con-sidered it a top-ﬁ  ve album this year almost instantly. The album is short, running about 
30 minutes long, which makes it perfect to 
listen to on repeat. Bon Iver ﬁ  rst gained at-
tention outside of their cult following when Kanye West featured the band on his album “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,” back in 2010. Kanye and lead-singer Justin Ver-non have worked together on a few different songs and the Yeezy inﬂ  uence shows on this album. Bon Iver tweaks their folk sound on “22, A Million” and they nailed it. This is an album a fan of any genre can get into and is easily has one of the best albums of 2016.Best new music roundup  
MUSIC10   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer 
Recently, I wrote a story on a 
pop-punk band that peaked about 
10 years ago called Cute Is What We Aim For. They played at High Dive two weeks ago as part of the band’s 10-year-anniversary tour for their only commercially successful release. I was originally irked by the idea of some old one-hit won-
der cashing in on the nostalgia of 
20-somethings who used to shop at Hot Topic; after all, I used to shop at Hot Topic. I felt cheated after I in-
terviewed the guys from CIWWAF 
and learned they haven’t written 
any new material since 2008. Who were they to stop making music for almost a decade and just jump back 
into the scene 10 years later? Then I 
considered why the band quit in the 
ﬁ  rst place. They released a hugely successful album in 2006 through a small indie label. In 2008, after get-ting signed to Atlantic Records, their 
sophomore album ﬂ  opped, and they 
were dropped from the  record label. 
With their ﬁ  rst album, CIW-
WAF joined bands like Simple Plan, Paramore and All Time Low in pop 
punk’s brief venture into the main-
stream of the early- to mid-2000s. 
“Punk” was the fashion, albeit in 
a mutated, commercialized way. Bands like CIWWAF took advan-
tage of the industry’s demand for 
skinny, white hairless dudes with 
stretched earlobes and tight clothes. These pop-punk bands gave young audiences vague, sexual lyrics and 
formulaic verse-chorus-verse-cho-
rus-bridge-chorus-chorus structured 
songs. 
CIWWAF’s career crashed right 
around the time pop punk fell out 
of the mainstream. The guys got dis-couraged and quit for a while. They 
worked day jobs for almost 10 years until now, when their old pop songs 
are suddenly “throwbacks” and their 
shows are well-attended by young 
adults who fondly recall what they 
used to listen to in high school.
While I personally ﬁ  nd the song-
writing of CIWWAF immature, bor-ing and even misogynistic at times 
(see the line in the song “Newport 
Living,” “In every circle of friends there’s a whore / The one who ﬂ  irts 
/ And does a little more”), I do think 
there are some pop-punk bands from 
the 2000s who made decent mu-sic. Sure, we know them from our cringe-inducing memories of years 
ago, but even in a period many of 
us would like to forget, there were a 
few stand outs.
Consider My Chemical Romance, 
whose album, “Three Cheers for 
Sweet Revenge,” I recently revisited on a long drive across the state. Du-
eling distorted guitars certainly felt “punk,” if not in the quasi-political 
style of bands like Fugazi or the Sex 
Pistols, then at least in their harsh 
energy. Gerard Way’s voice was 
ﬁ  lled with emotion: He strained, it cracked and so it felt genuinely 
poignant. So what if the lyrics were 
unclear? Or corny? The occasional 
imagery of funerals, prisons, hospi-
tals, graveyards, vampires and other horror elements are enough for me. 
Fall Out Boy is another pop-punk 
act from the mid-2000s with music that still strikes a chord with me today. Here’s a band who used the pop-punk sound to their advantage, 
one who touched on unique poeti-
cism while still using heavy, straight-
forward instrumentation to build en-ergy but not scare away typical pop listeners.
In the end, I think what sets these bands apart from the run-of-the-mill 2000s pop punk is their vocals. Bands like CIWWAF use squeaky-clean, al-
most auto-tuned,high-pitched chants 
about seducing women. MCR’s Ge-
rard Way gave listeners genuine 
voice cracks and horror-themed lyr-ics. FOB’s Patrick Stump seemed like 
a hopeless romantic at heart and had 
a unique vocal slur. 
Still, I don’t think there is any 
success in recording music for these bands anymore. The pop-punk craze 
has come and gone. FOB came out 
with a couple of albums since 2013, 
both of which were met with poor reception. MCR called it quits after their 2010 release “Danger Days” 
The True Lives of the Fabulous Kill-
joys.” That’s not to say a comeback 
tour for any successful 2000s pop-punk band wouldn’t bring out fans paying inﬂ  ated prices to hear their 
favorite throwbacks one last time.
Then and now: a reﬂ  ection on early-2000s pop punk 
MUSIC
LOCAL
By Kirsten Chuba
Avenue Writer Take a sip when…
• The kids ride their bikes
• Every time “Should I Stay or 
Should I Go” plays
• You (brieﬂ  y) wish people still 
used walkie talkies
Take a shot when…
• Eleven’s nose bleeds
• The “mouth breathers” bully 
Mike • The Christmas lights in Will’s 
house light up
• You’re not sure if you should 
be rooting for a romance 
between Nancy and 
Jonathan or not (because, 
you know, he did take 
creepy pics of her from the 
woods)
Finish your drink when...
• There are ﬂ  ashbacks to 
Eleven’s past
• You wonder about Barb 
• You’re screaming at Nancy 
not to crawl into that tree 
trunk “Stranger Things”: It’s the 
hottest thing on TV right now. 
It’s almost guaranteed that all of your friends will disappear for a day or two to binge this eight-
episode Netﬂ  ix series, and with 
Halloween coming up, it’s sure to keep growing in popularity. For those who haven’t watched the science-ﬁ  ction hit yet, it follows the disappearance of 12-year-old Will and his family’s journey to get him back from 
supernatural forces, along with 
the help of a telekinetic girl with a buzz cut. There are plenty of monsters, teen romance and ‘80s vibes, so there’s basically something for everyone. If you haven’t watched it yet, a hurri-cane is coming and now is the 
ideal time. So grab a drink and 
follow along (spoiler-free, of course). 
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
This Saturday, from 2 p.m. to 8 
p.m., First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany will be hosting the Fall Festival for the Environment. 
This event is the ﬁ  rst of its kind 
and has been put together by City of Gainesville project coordinator Ken-tucky Costellow. At the festival, there will be food trucks, a rafﬂ  e and live music from local bands Wax Wings, West King String Band and The Skins.
This event, sponsored by the 
Gainesville Arts and Parks Foundation, will be raising awareness for environ-mental groups and raising money for the annual Great Invader Raider Rally and monthly Gainesville Greenway Challenge. 
The Great Invader Raider Rally, 
previously known as the Great Air Po-tato Round-Up, takes place every Jan-uary, when volunteers gather to clean up and restore local parks and nature centers in the Gainesville area. 
Costellow encourages attendance 
from residents of all ages, she said. “Protecting natural resources affects 
all of us,” she said. The fundraising 
done for the Great Invader Raider Rally 
will go toward offsetting costs and pur-
chasing prizes “like kayaks, bicycles 
and other things that help get people 
back out into nature,” Costellow said.
One of the must-see bands perform-
ing Saturday night is Wax Wings. The various members of Wax Wings met 
through the Gainesville music scene 
and have been playing together for just 
over three years. 
The band has six members: Chelsea 
Carnes, who plays banjo, trumpet and serves as the primary vocalist; Brian 
Turk on the upright bass and vocals; 
Aaron Williams on the tuba and vo-
cals; Andrew Cook on the violin and 
vocals; Nicholas Caputo on the accor-
dion and John David Eriksen on the 
cello.
This diverse range of instruments helps to create Wax Wings’ unique 
sound. Carnes lists traditional world music, punk rock, alt-country, jazz and traditional Americana as different 
types of music that inspire the band’s 
dynamic music.
Lyrically, Carnes said, “I like to talk 
about relationships, friendships and people and how we treat each other… 
the beauty of human interaction.” 
Wax Wings is currently working on 
their new album, and Carnes is excited to put out more new recordings in the 
future. Carnes said he is looking for-
ward to performing at First Magnitude 
this weekend alongside West King 
String Band and The Skins, especially 
because of the festival’s link with nat-
ural restoration in Gainesville. 
First Magnitude is asking for a $5 
to $10 donation to attend the event 
and will give patrons 50 cents off their 
beers for the whole day. West King 
String Band will go on at 5:30 p.m., 
Wax Wings  at 6:30 p.m. and Thin 
Skins at 7:30 p.m.GNV hosts environmental fall festival
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-11-16-9-2
Spacious Apartment For Rent-The Oaks-Spacious one Bedroom apartment for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall and Restaurants. On Bus-Line.Call 404-323-9338     10-7-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT IN
THE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Full of beans
6 “I don’t need __”:
regular patron’scomment
11 Sellout letters
14 Apple app mostly
replaced by
Messages
15 Connoisseur
16 Recyclable item
17 OREO19 TSA requests20 Aria, usually21 Suffix with social22 Bovine icon24 ORE28 Crème brûlée
topping
31 Defensive
comeback
32 Little pill
33 When workers
may be dresseddown?: Abbr.
34 Terminal
conveyance
37 Nicki Minaj genre
38 OR
42 Langley org.
43 City on the
Rhône
45 Apartment bldg.
info
46 Medina native48 Offer a contrary
opinion
50 Reduced to pure
metal
52 O55 Saint __:
Caribbean island
56 Card game using
the entire deck
57 Goof reaction
61 Mont. neighbor62 Muppet’s
explanation ofthe four all-capsclues
66 Title for Anthony
Hopkins
67 Serviceable
68 Pointless69 “The Splendid
Splinter” Williams
70 Having glass
sections
71 Hen, for one
DOWN
1 Short shots?
2 Off-the-wall
answer?3 Dad of Haley,
Alex and Luke on
“Modern Family”
4 California
observatory site
5 Annual rpt.
column
6 Dutch beer brand7 Like lions, but not
tigers
8 Actress Longoria9 Japanese tech
company
10 Broken, as
promises
11 Hair salon
technique
12 Two of three
sides of a typicalpie slice
13 First stage18 __ wave23 Crook’s haul25 Little devils26 Take a chance
27 Mideast dignitary
28 PC key29 Like the visiting
team
30 Course record?33 NFL scores
35 Guy Friday, for
one
36 Servant for the
inn crowd39 E pluribus __
40 Spoils41 1914 battle river
44 Radar O’Reilly’s
pop brand
47 City with a Penn
State campus
49 Admit to the
Enterprise, in a
way
50 Pronounced51 Singer Anthony
52 Top-tier invitees53 Show that 
shows too much?
54 Marshy lowland58 Acceptable
59 Fragrant wood
60 Reader of tea
leaves
63 It may be
delayed by rain:Abbr.
64 German article65 Black gold
By Ed Sessa©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/06/1610/06/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 6, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 WantedTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Designated drivers are the greatest
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
HELP WANTED
HARVESTING CHESTNUTS
Pay $20 per 5 gal bucket. 20814 NW CR 
2054 Alachua. Call 352-213-2239    10-6-5-
14
HELP WANTED  PART TIME
Students OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     10-11-16-5-14
LOOKING FOR A CAREER?North Florida Retirement Village is holding a Career Fair on Oct. 13th from 9:30am – 12:30pm.  We are hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!  We are seeking:  ● Nurses (RN & LPN)● Assisted Living & Home Care CNAs● Companions● Servers/Kitchen Porters● Cooks
● Sous Chefs
● Security Guards
● Transportation Drivers
● Painters 
Come out to our Career Fair to learn more 
about our employment opportunities.  We are 
located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL. 32606. Security Guards will direct visi-
tors once on campus. Please apply online at 
www.thevillageonline.com/careers.    10-13-
16-6-14Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
FREE RIDE FOR CO-DRIVER
to Wrightsville Beach, N.C. or other point en 
route. Leave Gville Oct 13, return Oct 16. 
Call 352-294-3937, leave message.    10-
11-5-23
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or pet products here in the Pets section of the Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSALES - calling on campus departments and GREEK Houses. Recieve 10% com-mission selling logo merchandise w our catalogs & website 330 886 8398 PromoProductsASAP@gmail.com    10-7-16-2-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 19 ConnectionsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Becky Burleigh and the Florida 
women's soccer team is trying to climb in the SEC standings starting this afternoon against Georgia. Read the story, pg. 16Soccer game time changed, football remains the same
The UF soccer team's game originally scheduled for 6 p.m. today will be 
moved to 4 p.m., UF announced Wednesday. In addition, the school an-nounced that Florida's football game against LSU slated for Saturday at noon will stay on schedule for now, with a final decision to be made before 1 p.m. THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
With Florida's basketball Media Day being 
held today, sports writers Ray Boone and Matt 
Brannon break down the Florida team posi-tion-by-position in a two-part series. First we'll 
take a look at some players in UF's frontcourt.
Devin Robinson / 6-foot-8, 200-pound 
forward / junior
After a sophomore sea-
son that saw Robinson av-
erage nine points on 45.8 percent shooting and 5.6 
rebounds per game, he had 
to decide whether or not 
to enter his name into the 2016 NBA Draft.
However, only a few 
weeks after Robinson submitted his name for 
consideration, Florida’s health staff discov-
ered that Robinson had a stress fracture in his left foot, making his decision on whether to return for his junior season a whole lot sim-
pler.
With the graduation of two-year starting 
forward Dorian Finney-Smith, Robinson will 
be counted on to fill the void left by Finney-Smith, a former All-SEC player.
And he has big shoes to fill.Last year, Finney-Smith led the Gators 
in virtually every meaningful stat, including points per game (14.7), three-pointers made (71) and rebounds per game (8.3).
But there’s hope for Robinson.Although he only shot 34 percent from 
three on the year, conference play told a dif-ferent story.
During SEC play, Robinson shot a blazing 
47.8 percent from behind the arc and went 17-for-32 during an eight-game stretch late in the season. 
UF coach Mike White said Robinson did 
extensive work on form shooting during the offseason, and the hard work is starting to pay off.
Robinson is currently restricted in practice 
due to his injury, but expect him to hit the 
ground running by the beginning of the sea-
son.Gorjok Gak / 6-foot-11, 231-pound for-
ward / freshman
Gak will not be eligible 
to play for the Gators dur-
ing the 2016-2017 season. 
In July, the NCAA 
cleared Gak to enroll at 
Florida, but he will not be able to compete until his 
sophomore season.
And he’ll likely need 
the time off.
Gak came to Florida weighing in at only 
200 pounds, and although he’s put on a sig-
nificant amount of weight since then, he’s 
still not quite ready to join his teammates on 
the court.
A native of Australia, Gak was a three-
star recruit out of Victory Rock Prep School in Bradenton, where he averaged 13.9 points 
and 9.3 rebounds per game in his senior sea-
son.
Gak has shown flashes of using his athleti-
cism to finish above the rim and has demon-strated good touch in the paint.
And his long frame and shot-blocking 
skills will help him become a key piece on 
the defensive end.
But not yet.
For now, Gak will use this year to refine 
his skills until he’s ready to suit up for the 2017-2018 season. 
Kevarrius Hayes / 6-foot-9, 218-pound 
forward / sophomore
Hayes came alive dur-
ing the National Invitation 
Tournament last season.
Taking the place of in-
jured center John Egbunu 
in the starting lineup dur-
ing the second round of 
the tournament, the then-
freshman demonstrated 
the value of a high motor.
Against Ohio State, Hayes registered a 
career-high 14 points on 5-for-5 shooting. He followed that up with a 14-point, six-rebound 
performance against George Washington in 
the third round of the tournament.On the year, the Live Oak native averaged 
only 2.8 points, 2.6 rebounds and .6 blocks 
per game.  
But, with a year to adjust his skills and 
body to the collegiate game, expect a rise in 
play during his sophomore season.Although he is somewhat limited offen-
sively, Hayes’ long, athletic frame makes him 
a formidable threat defensively, and he’ll be 
counted on to clog up the paint when Egbunu 
isn’t on the floor. Breaking down Florida Gators basketball: Frontcourt edition
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Former Florida quarterback Chris 
Leak is being investigated for sexual 
assault, according to a police report.
Leak, a member of the Gators’ 2006 
national championship team, report-edly asked a 16-year old girl to mas-sage him at Edgewater High School in Orlando, where Leak worked as the head football coach before resigning on Monday.
According to the Orlando Senti-
nel, Leak has not been charged with a crime but is being investigated by police.
Leak asked for the massage in an 
office near the school’s football field on Sept. 5, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The girl told police that her hand 
brushed Leak’s genitals, and after the girl had told a friend what had hap-
pened, Leak gave the girl's friend 
$100, according to the report.
Leak, 31, served as a graduate as-
sistant at Florida in 2013 and a wide receivers coach at UF in 2014 before being hired by the Tampa Bay Bucca-neers in 2015.
Leak was hired as the football 
coach at Edgewater High in Febru-ary. The team went 0-5 before Leak 
resigned.
@ichenb
icohen@alligator.org Former UF QB under investigation for sexual assault
Leak
Gak
Hayes
Robinson
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15Ian Cohen / Alligator Staff
Devin Robinson (middle) fights through two Vanderbilt defenders for a layup during 
Florida's 87-74 loss to the Commodores on Feb. 23 in the O'Connell Center.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
John Egbunu / 6-foot-11, 
255-pound center / redshirt ju-
nior
Like Robin-
son, Egbunu also 
grappled with the decision to enter the NBA Draft.
And like Rob-
inson, an injury solidified Eg-bunu’s decision 
to return to the Gators for another season.
With a chiseled frame and ex-
traordinary athleticism, Egbunu 
provided Florida with something it 
sorely lacked in previous years — an inside presence on both ends of the court.   
In his first season of eligibility 
with the Gators, Egbunu flashed a back-to-the-basket game that Flor-ida has lacked since the departure of Patric Young. 
He averaged 11.5 points, 6.5 
rebounds and 1.4 blocks a game and routinely used his athleticism and build to gobble up offensive rebounds and create scoring op-portunities in the paint, including a program-record 75 dunks. 
The native of Bauchi, Nigeria, 
was at his best toward the end of the season. In a matchup with 
conference-foe Kentucky, Egbunu 
registered a career-high 27 points on 12-of-15 shooting.
However, Egbunu is prone to 
foul trouble. He fouled out in six games last year, and at just 0.4 as-sists per game, has not shown the ability to effectively pass out of double teams, which stunted UF's 
already scoring-challenged offense.
The biggest knock on Egbunu, 
though, is his inability to make free 
throws. 
Last season, he led the team 
with 173 free-throw attempts but only managed to make 92 of them (53.2 percent). 
His poor free-throw shooting, 
coupled with his incessant foul trouble and poor passing, can make it a challenge for him to stay on the floor.
However, with that said, Eg-
bunu is still a key piece of this Florida team.
And although he’s still on the 
mend from torn ligaments in his 
right thumb, he’ll be counted on to 
be the Gators’ main defensive en-forcer and inside presence once the season starts. 
Dontay Bassett / 6-foot-9, 
222-pound forward / freshman
Bassett hails from Oldsmar 
Christian School — along with fellow freshman Eric Hester — where he was a 
team captain and 
helped lead his 
team to a runner-up finish at the state champion-ship his senior year.
The former 
three-star recruit 
chose Florida over offers from Ar-kansas, Oregon State, Nebraska and others.
Bassett is an athletic forward 
with long arms and a workhorse mentality who has demonstrated the ability to face up for a jump shot, scrap in the post and handle the ball, which are skills for the 
most part lacking in the games of 
Egbunu and Hayes.
However, due to a crowded 
frontcourt, Bassett most likely won’t garner too much playing time and will likely use this year to further refine his skills and body. 
Justin Leon / 6-foot-8, 
206-pound forward / senior
Leon isn’t the 
most skilled play-er on the team.
But what he 
lacks in skill, he more than makes up for in inten-
sity.
Leon came to Florida in 2015 after transferring from Shawnee Community Col-
lege and was a steady contributor off the bench and as a part-time starter.
Although his stats weren’t 
flashy by any standard — he av-eraged just 5.3 points and 3.1 re-bounds per game last season — he was able to provide a consistent 
spark of energy and brought versa-
tility to the forward position.
And despite his lack of skills, 
Leon’s high motor and athleticism helped him become a versatile de-fender and led to multiple second-chance opportunities on offense.
In addition, for a team that 
struggled mightily from three-point 
range, Leon’s ability to spot up 
from beyond the arc was actually a pleasant surprise. 
He led the team last season in 
three-point shooting percentage, making 37.3 percent of 67 attempts. 
Overall, every time he shot the 
ball last season, he was efficient, shooting almost 50 percent from 
the field. 
However, don’t count on Leon 
to stuff the stat sheet every night. 
But do expect him to give his all 
once he steps out on the court. 
Keith Stone / 6-foot-8, 
240-pound forward / redshirt 
freshman
He wasn’t ready to play last season.
Stone came to Florida in 2015 as 
a young, inexperienced freshman looking to break into a frontcourt that already included forwards Finney-Smith, Robinson, Hayes and Leon.
He wasn’t go-
ing to play much, if at all, so the 
coaching staff en-
couraged him to 
take a redshirt.
Now, with a 
full year to work on his body and skills, Stone is 
ready to challenge for significant playing time.
With a smooth stroke from be-
yond the arc and an ability to take the ball to the basket, Stone will bring much needed versatility to the offense.
However, defensively, the jury 
is still out.
With as much talent as Stone 
has, he’s still yet to play a real col-
lege game, and that inexperience 
will most likely show itself on the defensive end of the floor.
There will be growing pains 
to start the season — as with any young player — but expect him to be a reliable contributor once he gets used to the college game.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
HOOPS,  from pg 14Egbunu averaged 11.5 points and 6.5 rebounds per game
Stone
Bassett
Leon
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Center John Egbunu (left) and guard KeVaughn Allen (right) run down the court during Florida's 96-91 loss to LSU on Feb. 27 in the O'Connell Center.
Egbunu
16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2016
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
With 11 games under their belt, 
the Gators are ﬁ  nally ﬁ  guring out 
how to play as a team.
For the ﬁ  rst time this season, 
No. 16 Florida (8-3, 3-2 Southeast-
ern Conference) secured back-to-
back shutouts against two SEC opponents: Tennessee on Sept. 25 and LSU last Friday.
Florida, the 2015 SEC regular 
season and tournament champions are tied for ﬁ  fth in the conference.
“We have just started focusing 
on (shutouts) more,” senior mid-
ﬁ  elder Meggie Dougherty Howard 
said on Wednesday.  “We know that if we keep giving up goals at that rate we had been, we’re not going to be able to go deep into our season. Its putting more emphasis on that and taking pride in our de-fending all over the ﬁ  eld.”
As experienced as the Gators 
are, their success this season has a lot to do with the production of 
their underclassmen. 
As a freshman last year, Florida 
forward and midﬁ  elder Melanie 
Monteagudo didn’t score a goal.
Through the ﬁ  rst 11 games, the 
sophomore already has ﬁ  ve.
Monteagudo, who was named 
the SEC Offensive Player of the 
Week on Monday, has become 
one of the leaders on the Gators’ offense.
“I am just making the most of 
my opportunities this year as op-posed to last year,” Monteagudo said. 
“Deﬁ  nitely my work ethic has 
been a lot better this year, and I am just learning from last year...And you can obviously see it by the goals that I have scored.”
The Pembroke Pines native 
ranks second on the team in goals scored behind senior forward Sa-vannah Jordan (8) and ranks third in the SEC with three game-win-ning goals. But as successful as they have 
been the last two games, the Gators still have a long road ahead if they 
want to repeat the success they 
had in 2015, starting today at home against Georgia.
The Bulldogs (4-7-1, 0-5 SEC) 
are looking for its ﬁ  rst conference 
win of the season and Florida 
doesn’t want to be the team to give it to them. 
“It is always a good game be-
cause it is so much fun,” UF coach 
Becky Burleigh said.
 “The idea of Florida versus 
Georgia in anything at this school 
brings out the best. So I think, for us, it is just about matching the in-tensity.”
The Gators will also be wearing 
pink tonight to recognize Breast Cancer Awareness Month
“It gives us the opportunity to 
play for something bigger than our-selves, bigger than the school and come together with Gator Nation and the community to bring aware-ness to breast cancer,” Dougherty Howard said. 
“And ﬁ  ght for the women who 
ﬁ  ght for their lives everyday.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org  Gators looking for third-straight SEC win against Georgia
UF is tied for ifth in the SEC
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Meggie Dougherty Howard dribbles the ball during Florida’s 3-2 
win over UCF on Sept. 18. 
What: Florida vs. Georgia
When: Time 4 p.m.Where: James G. Pressly Stadium Watch: SEC Network