We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 66 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
Jim McElwain angry after loss
The coach did not hide his disappointment after 
the game against FSU. Read the column, pg. 13
Christmas tree sales already booming in GNV
Many tree stands began selling trees Friday, pg. 5
UF students, professors to honor Nelson Mandela
T oday marks the school’s third annual Mandela Day, pg. 9Santa comes to Tioga Town Center
See the photo story, pg. 8
FLORIDA 13
 FLORIDA STATE 31
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
TALLAHASSEE — The pocket 
was closing, so Austin Appleby 
ran.
The quarterback rolled to his right and looked up: There, down 
the ﬁ  eld, a UF receiver was run-ning open.
Finally.Appleby drew back his arm 
and launched it forward, but there was FSU defensive back Marquez White. There were his outstretched hands, reaching for the pass. And there was the ball, bouncing off White’s arms and straight back into the face of Appleby, who ﬂ  inched and watched it bounce to 
the ground, incomplete.
The play blew up in Appleby’s 
face.
And so, it seemed, did any ﬂ  eet-ing hopes of Florida’s College Foot-
ball Playoff hopes.
“I know this Gator team, I know 
this Gator offense,” Appleby said. “It stung.”
The Gators (8-3) lost to Florida 
State (9-3) Saturday night, 31-13, for the fourth-straight time. 
Afterwards, UF’s players were 
dejected.“Heartbroken,” defensive line-
man Joey Ivie said.
But for most of the night, as 
Florida failed to piece together 
anything resembling a competent 
offensive attack, the crowd in Tal-lahassee was elated.
They cheered after FSU receiver  ‘HEARTBROKEN’
UF’s playof hopes dashed
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Two people wave Cuban ﬂ  ags as they are driven down Bird Road in Miami on Satur-day night. People were either passing by or parking at La Carreta, a Cuban restau-rant, to celebrate and cheer on the death of former Cuban leader Fidel Castro.
Courtesy to the Alligator
A graphic shows the renovated Plaza of the Americas, which includes seating and tables for students.
Alligator Staff Report
Early Saturday morning, Pedro Luis Perez 
screamed until he lost his voice.
At about midnight, as the UF political sci-
ence and history senior prepared to go to sleep, 
his phone lit up with a notiﬁ  cation he had 
been waiting 10 years to receive: Fidel Castro 
is dead. 
Raúl Castro, the brother of the former Cu-
ban dictator, announced the news Friday night 
and declared nine days of national mourning.
But in Miami, where scores of Cubans have 
escaped from Castro’s communist reign, Perez 
joined thousands of his compatriots in celebra-
tion. He got out of bed and headed to Versailles 
Cuban Restaurant in Miami, where the chant-ing crowd took over two street blocks.
“The Wicked Witch of the Caribbean is 
dead,” one sign read.Since Castro fell ill in 2006 with an un-
disclosed digestive illness, Perez, 21, said he knew the dictator’s death was not far away.
During his time leading Cuba, Castro was 
accused of human-rights violations including 
executing thousands of opponents, imprison-
ing tens of thousands of people and denying basic political freedoms.
Perez prayed to God to be in Miami when 
it happened so he could rejoice with his com-
munity. 
His family came to the U.S. in 2004 after his 
mother won Cuba’s visa lottery, he said. 
In Cuba, she was a dentist who struggled to 
provide for her family on the equivalent of $20 a month. She took a job cleaning bathrooms in 
a downtown Miami SunTrust Bank building, leaving behind more than a dozen relatives to Emotions high for Cuban faculty , 
students after Castro’s death
THE $2.2 MILLION 
PROJECT WILL OFFER 
MORE SEATING AND  
WIDER SIDEWALKS.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Plaza of the Americas is get-
ting a new look.
Starting today, The Brentwood 
Company, a Gainesville contractor, 
will begin a six-month-long proj-
ect that will cost $2.2 million, UF 
spokesman Steve Orlando said. The construction will include adding wider sidewalks and extra seating, expanding on-campus Wi-Fi and adding new emergency blue phones with speakers. 
The space’s tree canopies, which 
provide shade, will remain. The proj-ect will be done in two parts, begin-ning with the east half of the plaza, to allow students to still use part of the space.
A private donation of more than 
$1.3 million from UF alumni and do-nors Herb and Catherine Yardley will 
fund about half of the project, and 
UF is funding the rest, Orlando said. UF’s funding is coming from the of-ﬁ  ce of UF Chief Operating Ofﬁ  cer Charlie Lane. 
The goal of the renovations is to 
give the space a new look for a mod-ern university while staying one of UF’s green spaces that will remain  Renovations to the Plaza of the Americas to begin todaySEE CASTRO,  PAGE 4
SEE PLAZA,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘Trashformations’ at the Florida 
Museum of Natural History
Ever wonder how milk jugs morph into beautiful wading birds or how gears and gadgets 
become gigantic bugs? See how 
Alachua County middle-school, high-school and college students transform waste into works of art. The museum will display the winning entries from the 18th Annual Trashformations event today. This event is made possi-ble in part by the Alachua County 
Solid Waste & Resource Recovery 
and the Alachua County Board of Commissioners.
Pajama Party Blood Drive
Get cozy and save a life. LifeSouth Community Blood Centers is hosting a Pajama Party Blood Drive on Thursday from 
4 p.m. to 10 p.m. It will be held 
at the Reitz Union, Room 2315. There will be games and prizes. All blood donors will be entered to win a 128-gigabyte jet black iPhone 7 Plus during the month of December. Wear your best pa-jamas.
‘Agbedidi’ returns to UF
An annual favorite returns to the university and greater Gainesville community Friday to Sunday. “Agbedidi” celebrates traditional West African dance together with the postmodern expressions of choreographers of the African diaspora. A high-
energy performance from world-
class musicians and an incred-ible ensemble of dancers will have you wanting to get up and dance. Performances are at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, and at 2 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for UF faculty, staff and seniors and $13 
for students. Tickets are avail-
able through the University Box Office. More information is avail-able at arts.ufl.edu.
‘A Christmas Carol’
Don’t miss the wonderment and joy of the Hippodrome State Theatre’s most recent rendi-
tion of the classic “A Christmas 
Carol,” featuring Scrooge, Marley and, of course, Tiny Tim. The show will run Saturday, Dec. 10 and Dec. 17 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. It will also run Dec. 19 and Dec. 20 at 7 p.m., and Dec. 21 and Dec. 22 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Share the timeless messages of 
redemption, charity and good-
will with your children for the first time — or the 39th. Kids get in free Saturday at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. with the donation of a nonperishable food item for Bread of the Mighty Food Bank or new unwrapped toys for Toys 
for Tots. This deal stands for up 
to two free children per paying adult. Other restrictions may ap-ply, and this offer is only avail-able while supplies last. Call the Hippodrome Box Office at 352-375-4477 for advanced reserva-tions.
The Longest Table Gainesville
Enjoy a free dinner and dialogue designed to strengthen relation-ships and unite the community as everyone works together to enhance the quality of life in Gainesville and Alachua County during The Longest Table on Sunday from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 
p.m. at Depot Park Water’s Edge, 
located at 200 SE Depot Ave. Each attendee is encouraged to bring at least one nonperishable food item to this event, which will be donated to the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank.
‘Sounds of the Season: ¡el 
Festival!’Annual holiday favorite “Sounds of the Season ¡el Festival!” re-turns to Gainesville on Sunday at 7 p.m. at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts with special performances by the UF Concert Choir, UF Symphony Orchestra, UF Women’s Chorale, 
Gainesville Master Chorale, 
Welson Tremura, Scott Wilson and the UF Jazz Band, and spe-cial guest Ensamble Vocal de Medellín, a professional choir from Colombia, under the di-rection of Jorge Hernán Arango García. Free tickets will be dis-tributed beginning today at the 
Phillips Center Box Office. For 
more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Caroling the Ravines, presented 
by Friends of Ravine GardensThe Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s Ravine Gardens State Park and 
the Friends of Ravine Gardens 
Inc. are hosting their ninth an-nual Christmas event — Caroling the Ravines — Dec. 10 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Take a musical wagon ride around the lit-up park as you enjoy vocal perfor-mances and get your Christmas shopping done early by visiting 
local vendors. Come visit or have 
your photo taken with Santa. A variety of delicious foods, sweets and drinks will also be available for purchase from local food ven-dors. Admission to the event is $2 per person or $5 per vehicle (up to 8 people), which includes park entry. Proceeds from the 
event will benefit the Friends of Ravine Gardens Inc. Decorated 
luminary bags with custom names on them will be on sale 
for $5 each. Proceeds from the 
luminaries will benefit local proj-ects by the Pilot Club of Palatka.
Entries for science photo contest 
due Dec. 20The Elegance of Science art com-petition is now accepting entries and is open to UF students, fac-
ulty and staff. Submit your 2-D 
research images or photos that incorporate scientific tools or concepts for a chance to win cash prizes. The contest is orga-nized by the Florida Museum of Natural History and the Marston Science Library. Submissions are due Dec. 20. For contest rules or 
to view past winners, visit flmnh.
ufl.edu/eos or call 352-273-2013.
APIACare (Mental Health): final 
exam care packageMental health is an issue that affects everyone. This finals season, Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs would like to 
encourage everyone to prioritize 
mental health by providing stu-dents with care packages that include items such as coffee, medicine, hygiene products and more in order to promote suc-cessful and healthy studying dur-ing finals. If you’re a pet owner, APIA has created a Paws and 
Claws care package filled with 
toys, treats and resources you can share with your pets. Also, APIA has a care package made for children, because the organi-zation acknowledges that some UF students and faculty have young children at home, so bal-ancing family, work and school 
may be tough. Be sure to take 
care of yourselves and the ones you love: your peers, pets and children.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To 
request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
HIGH  79° LOW  60°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 66
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, David  Hoffman, Lauren Janata,   
                                                                                                  Amanda Price, Kaelah Scheff,  Elias     
  Selimos, Michael Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson, 
  Cameron Wallace  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandMONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
More than 30 people wait outside Best Buy, located at 3750 SW Archer Road, on Thursday afternoon 
to take part in the Black Friday sales offered in the store.
Darlene Dippolito (bottom), a Lake City citizen, holds shopping bags while she shops on Black Friday at The Oaks Mall with 59-year-old Rita Powell, who came from Alabama to see her family.
From left: Roxana Ciudad, 59, and Juan Carlos Romero, 60, wait outside Best Buy, located at 3750 SW Archer Road, on Thursday afternoon for the store to open at 8 p.m. so they could buy a 55-inch TV. The couple had been waiting since 2 p.m. on Wednesday in their tent to make sure they would get the best offer on Black Friday.
The Oaks Mall’s Victoria’s Secret Pink store was crowded with shoppers on Friday afternoon during the post-Thanksgiving sales.
Gainesville citizens went shopping on Thursday and Friday to partake in post-Thanksgiving sales. Some stores, such as Best Buy, offered about $200 discounts on TVs, while others, such as Hollister Co., of-fered a 50-percent discount throughout the whole store. SHOPPING MADNESS
Photos by Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staffgive Perez a better life.
But over the weekend, he sang 
the Cuban National Anthem through 
the night with more than 1,000 oth-ers who shared his hope that all Cu-
bans could soon have a better life. 
With Castro’s death, Perez hopes 
to see a democratic Cuba.
“It’s the snake without the head,” 
he said.
•   •   •
After the announcement of Cas-
tro’s death, police patrolled the 
streets of Cuba, discouraging any demonstrations. When Perez called his grandmother in Cuba to tell her 
the news, state-run media didn’t 
report on it, and the country’s four television channels played movies, he said.
When he spoke of the celebra-
tion, his grandmother worried the government was monitoring their call.
To Lillian Guerra, a UF Cuban 
and Caribbean history professor, it’s a sign of a system of governance “set in stone.”Since the transition of power to 
Raúl Castro in 2006, the Cuban mili-
tary has awaited Castro’s death and 
prepared to maintain the communist party’s hold on the state, she said.
Military generals have already 
started laying plans to retain power in the coming decades, seemingly cementing the country’s fate.
“It’s going to surpass and survive 
Raúl’s death,” she said. “That has 
been set in stone.”
•   •   •
When she heard the news, Eliza-
beth Pantaleon thought of her grand-
father — and the sleepless nights he spent awaiting Castro’s death.
After immigrating to Miami from 
Cuba in the 1960s, her grandfather would stay up late almost every night before he died in April, just to see if Castro was still alive.
Pantaleon, the vice president of 
the UF Cuban American Student As-sociation, said she wishes he could have seen the day.
“It was a feeling of disbelief 
because (Castro has) always just been there since I was a child,” the 22-year-old UF international studies senior said.She remembers hearing stories 
about the torture Castro’s govern-ment caused her great-grandfather, who was jailed and tortured for 30 years because he refused to give up his butcher shop.
The prison guards would ran-
domly pull him from his cell, put a bag over his head and act as if they 
would shoot him. Though he was 
eventually released, the psychologi-cal toll would later lead to his death, she said.
Pantaleon’s family is not celebrat-
ing the death of a human being, she said, just the end of an era. 
“It’s getting a sense of closure 
and justice,” she said. “This makes 
people feel lighter.” 
•   •   •
When Stefanie Perez and her 
family heard about Castro’s death, 
she felt hope: hope for the end of tyr-anny, hope for the future.
At 10 months old, Perez left Cuba 
with her family for Fort Lauderdale after her mother won a visa in a lot-tery. Her parents left behind their own siblings and parents to give themselves a better life in a free land.
A friend’s phone call Saturday morning woke Perez to the news of Castro’s death. The UF applied kine-siology and physiology junior rushed to her parents.
While some traveled to Miami to 
celebrate, Perez and her parents fol-lowed along on TV.
Despite the sense of relief, Perez couldn’t shake the irony: While Cu-bans in the U.S. celebrated, those liv-ing in the country could not.
“I don’t think just because of his 
death we’re going to see an immedi-ate response,” the 20-year-old said. “It’s a step forward for freedom, but 
it’s going to take a while.”4   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
SHE TOLD POLICE SHE 
WROTE THE NOTE 
BECAUSE SHE WANTED 
‘ME’ TIME.
By Caitlin Ostroff 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County Sheriff’s depu-
ties arrested a Waldo woman Tues-day in connection to a handwritten 
bomb threat found in UF’s New En-
gineering Building last week.
Jessica I. Ward, a 24-year-old 
employee at the Java Hut Coffee Ki-osk, located on the ground floor of 
the building, told investigators with 
University Police’s Criminal Investi-
gations Division that she wrote the 
note, which was found in a first-floor women’s bathroom Nov. 16, in an effort to “leave work,” according to 
a news release.
Ward told police she wanted 
“me” time, according to the release. 
Following the bomb threat, UPD 
evacuated the building and set up a perimeter until mid-afternoon. Police 
and K-9 units searched the building 
and found no evidence of a bomb. 
UPD officers worked with the Col-
lege of Engineering to narrow down a list of people potentially involved 
in writing the bomb threat, accord-
ing to the release. After interviewing 
Ward, she told police she wrote the 
note. A warrant for her arrest was filed Monday. 
Police arrested Ward this morn-
ing on a charge of false reports con-
cerning planting a bomb, explosive, 
or weapon of mass destruction in, or committing arson against, state-owned property, or concerning the 
use of firearms in a violent man-
ner. The offense is a second-degree 
felony.
Ward was released Tuesday in 
lieu of a $15,000 bond from the Ala-
chua County Jail. She declined to 
comment.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgJava Hut Coffee employee arrested in connection with bomb threat
open and undeveloped.
“It’s very exciting,” Orlando 
said. “So many people use it, and 
I think it will be great for students after the construction is complete.”
The construction is part of UF’s 
Strategic Development Plan, which aims to see the university grow and improve over the next 40 to 50 years, he said.  
During the construction, Mur-
phree Way, a service road east of the plaza, will be closed to traffic and converted to a paved road for 
pedestrians, he said. Only emer-
gency vehicles will be allowed ac-cess. 
The space was originally de-
signed as a quadrangle in the 1920s, Orlando said. The court-yard, which is a common feature across university campuses, was officially named the Plaza of the 
Americas in the 1930s. 
“The purpose of it was to be an 
open space where students could 
gather and read or use it as a free-speech zone,” he said. “The plaza is a very central part of the univer-sity’s history and a central part of campus life.”
Jefferson Packer, the vice presi-
dent of the UF hammock club, said the club hangs hammocks and vis-its on the plaza about once a week, but he doesn’t think the construc-
tion will affect them too much. 
The hammock club may con-
sider meeting in front of Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium or in the Broward Area while the plaza is under con-struction, the 22-year-old UF mar-keting and information systems junior said. 
“There are better places to 
hang, but the plaza has great vis-ibility to students,” Packer said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
PLAZA,  from pg. 1It’s part of UF’s development
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Hundreds of people gathered in front of La Carreta in Miami on 
Saturday night following the death of former Cuban leader Fidel Castro. People waved both American and Cuban flags, banged on pots and held copies of The Miami Herald’s Saturday paper.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
For UF professor Stephen Craig, 
Thanksgiving dinner provided more than a whiff of homemade food — it was a breath of fresh air 
following a divisive election cycle.
The weeks following the elec-
tion of Donald Trump as president 
have been marked, in some circles, by apprehension and public outcry — some of which carried over onto 
Gainesville’s streets and onto UF’s 
campus.
But at Craig’s dinner, like many 
others, politicking was a no-go, an 
ironic circumstance considering Craig teaches politics, voting be-havior and public opinion at UF.
“My brother, who was hosting, 
posted a sign saying that anyone who started talking about either politics or religion would be ban-ished from the house and forced to eat outside,” Craig, who celebrated Thanksgiving with family in St. Pe-tersburg, Florida, wrote in an email. “I was definitely ok with that.”UF psychology and Spanish se-
nior McLaine Pleasants, whose house is often divided by political ideology, managed to dodge un-comfortable post-election discus-sion, too.
“We have some die hard conser-
vatives and some die hard liberals,” the 21-year-old wrote in an email. 
“But what we have in common is 
that family comes first.”
Pleasants, who does not affiliate 
with any political party, said she 
finds it hard to change other peo-
ple’s minds, especially when debat-
ing politics.
“A lot of times people have ex-
tremely strong opinions, but are 
completely closed-minded to actu-ally hearing the facts or doing their own research,” Pleasants said.
Yousef Alghawi, a UF political 
science junior, avoided political banter for different reasons.
The 21-year-old said discussing 
the election with his predominately Muslim family is difficult because he said Trump’s campaign rhetoric has incited hate and fear toward Muslims living in America.
Alghawi, although not religious 
himself, said he is frustrated that his 16-year-old brother is treated with disrespect by peers simply be-cause of his faith.
“It’s something that we don’t 
talk about, and we didn’t talk about at Thanksgiving, but it’s there — 
and it honestly impacts almost ev-
ery moment of our lives,” Alghawi 
said.
Instead of banishing post-elec-
tion talk, UF marketing junior Em-
ily Fodor embraced it. In the end, 
as her mostly conservative family 
members spoke in oddly calming tones about it all, the 20-year-old said she was pleasantly surprised.
Instead of getting offended by 
divisive remarks, especially those with misogynistic undertones, Fodor said she listened and learned from what her loved ones shared.
“Besides a few comments sur-
rounding the credibility of the women who spoke out against Trump (for sexual assault), it was a productive conversation,” she said.During post-election Thanksgiving, 
students, families avoid discourse
CASTRO,  from pg. 1‘It’s a step forward for freedom, but it’s going to take a while’Students took to social 
media to express how they 
felt about the renovations: 
• “So basically urbanizing a 
beautiful green space, ” Arik Benlevy wrote on Facebook.
• “How about #UF gets some parking?” Allison Ivak wrote on Facebook.
• “why fix one of UF’s most iconic spots. It’s perfectly fine the way it is, ” Colt Harrison tweeted.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator Staff
THANKSGIVING REPAIRS
After a car crashed into a pole on 62nd Boulevard, utility crews restored power, which was out for 
more than four hours on Thursday during Thanksgiving.
EMPLOYERS WERE 
ASKED TO CONSIDER 
PREDICTORS FOR 
EMPLOYABILITY.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF became the highest-ranked 
public university in the U.S. for 
preparing its students for jobs af-ter graduation by a London-based survey.
Out of nearly 100 universities, 
the Times Higher Education re-cently published the 2016 Global University Employability Survey, which consisted of a series of ranked universities by country, as well as globally. In the U.S., UF was ranked No. 8, and globally it was ranked  No. 142. 
The online survey asked U.S. management-level recruiters to vote for 15 universities they thought produced “the best gradu-ates in terms of employability.” Employers considered professional experience and a “high degree of specialization” as the top predic-
tors of employability, according to 
the Times Higher Education. 
UF spokesman Steve Orlando 
said the ranking shows the high caliber of UF.
“You get a very rigorous educa-
tion at UF,” Orlando said. “It’s not an easy school to get through, so that means it prepares you very 
well in your ﬁ  eld of study.”
New York University came in 
at the top of the list, followed by 
Harvard University, Princeton Uni-versity and California Institute of Technology.
Ando Rakotoarisoa, a UF mate-
rials science and engineering soph-omore, said she believes UF ranked so highly because of all of the op-portunities it offers.
“They have so many career 
showcases and so many student organizations that promote profes-sional development for students,” 
the 20-year-old said.  
 UF highest-ranked US public university 
for post-graduation job preparations
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
Fresh from Thanksgiving 
Break, Gainesville was in a merry mood Sunday.
On the corners of busy streets 
and in front of chain stores, dark-green Christmas trees — some tall, some small — greeted fami-lies as they transitioned from Tur-key Day to the winter holiday.
Outside Littlewood Elementa-
ry School, where Parker’s Christ-mas Trees set up shop, 7-year-old Magnolia Nelson and her mother looked for the perfect tree.
Magnolia’s mother, Jenny Hill, 
said the time between Thanksgiv-ing and Christmas serves as a buffer time to enjoy the company of family.
“It’s just a nice sort of marker 
each year between two of the bigger holidays,” the Gainesville resident said.
Hill said her family typically 
chops down their own pine trees for Christmas but decided to buy a traditional ﬁ  r this year. The change was welcomed by Mag-nolia, who wandered around the trees, touching their prickly needles.
Parker’s Christmas Trees, 
owned by UF alumnus Sam Park-er, expects to sell out this year — just like every year.
Since Friday, Parker has sold 
about 1,000 trees outside Little-wood and at St. Michael’s Epis-copal Church, employee Drew Wilson estimated.
Elsewhere, tree-ﬁ  lled tents 
have sprouted in front of Home Depot stores and empty grass lots in anticipation for the holiday rush.
For Jayson Messick, an 
18-year-old Santa Fe College stu-dent who works for Parker, help-ing families get into the holiday spirit makes hauling and chop-ping trees worthwhile.
“I like the little kids running 
around, smelling the Christmas trees (and) being happy,” the business administration freshman said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org
Christmas tree sales 
already booming in GNV 
• Littlewood 
Elementary School: 
812 NW 34th St.
• St. Michael’s Episcopal Church: 
4315 NW 23rd Ave.
• Mr. Jingles’ Christmas Trees Gainesville: 5402 NW Eighth Ave.
• Home Depot: 7107 NW Fourth Blvd., 
5150 NW 13th St.
• Unicorn Hill Farm (Beginning Dec. 1): 
3605 NW 69th St.THE TOP 5 U.S. PUBLIC 
UNIVERSITIES THAT MADE 
THE LIST: 
• UF, ranked 8th 
• Arizona State University, 
ranked 9th
• University of California, Los Angeles, ranked 11th 
• Pennsylvania State University, ranked 15th 
• North Carolina State University, ranked 16th
WHERE 
TO BUY 
YOUR 
TREEThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
We’re not talking about Standing Rock correctly
Protestors against the Dakota Access 
pipeline have been told to leave their camp by Dec. 5 by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Although they said it’s to protect the protestors from confronta-
tions and illness due to the harsh winter con-ditions, taking away their right to protest will actually do more to harm them. The people who are most affected by this are the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe; they will have a lot more problems in the future if the pipeline is built without in-terference. The protestors must be allowed to voice their concerns until they are heard.
Mainstream news outlets often forget it’s not only how 
they present an issue that could indicate bias, but their choice of what to cover or spend time on can also reveal what they think is important. According to Slate, “Police reportedly responded with tear gas, pepper spray, rubber bullets, and, despite below freezing temperatures in the area, water cannons.” This kind of brutality against pro-testers is terrible and should be exposed. However, TV outlets will only give a brief mention of it. What had the potential to be a major issue in the 2016 election wasn’t, because if the media isn’t going to cover it, candidates have no reason to take a stand on it. Sen. Bernie Sand-ers and Sen. Cory Booker have been among the few who spoke out on the injustices happening at the protests.
The act of relocating the protestors to free-speech 
zones only serves to move them to a place that makes it more convenient for the people building the pipeline. The whole point of a protest is to make people stop and think — to inconvenience them. Moving to a free-speech zone allows the people who would beneﬁ  t from the pipeline to tune them out.
This holiday season, many are failing to acknowledge 
the fact that the government, to this day, fails to protect Native Americans. While they may be content to wear a headdress at a music festival or encourage kids to draw “Indians” as decorations on Thanksgiv-ing, they don’t otherwise concern themselves with anything about Native Americans. Their issues are largely ignored.
The pipeline should not be allowed to go 
through culturally signiﬁ  cant territory. While critics would say rerouting the pipeline would be expensive, perhaps this is something that should have been considered in an earlier stage of planning the pipeline. It did not have to come 
to this. There also could be potential contamination of the water. According to CNN, the pipeline would go under the Missouri River, which worries opponents who are con-cerned about what will happen if the pipeline ruptures.
Those who have a ﬁ  nancial interest in the pipeline be-
ing constructed might think it’s better to have a pipeline rather than transport by train or truck. However, the best option is to not tap into that natural resource at all. How-ever, if they absolutely must get the oil, they have to con-sider the people living in the area.
On top of all of this, the pipeline would fuel depen-
dence on nonrenewable resources that contribute to cli-mate change. It’s a bandage that doesn’t solve the actual problem. The U.S. needs to invest more in renewable re-sources.
The lack of media coverage means independent outlets 
like Democracy Now!, which recently had a journalist ar-rested for covering the protests, have to pick up the slack. It’s embarrassing that a story that has had such a mas-sive protest isn’t talked about more. Journalists need to hold the Dakota Access pipeline builders accountable. As a country that has historically neglected Native American populations, it’s time to take note and stop pushing them around. It’s their land, and it should be protected.
Nicole Dan is a UF journalism and political science 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.The acquisition of 
innate knowledge 
and restrooms
Years ago, Wolfgang Kohler conducted a psychological 
study in which several monkeys were placed in a cage together with a single piece of food at the top of the cage. The monkeys were fed regularly, but if one of those mon-keys attempted to climb up stairs and touch the food, 
the researchers would spray all the monkeys with ice water. The monkeys were eventually conditioned to never go up that high to retrieve the piece of food.
Later in the study, one of the monkeys was replaced with a 
monkey that had never been in the cage before. Once inside, it naturally started to climb to the top to retrieve the food. Out of fear of being shocked, the other monkeys tackled and beat him severely so he wouldn’t be able to access it. One by one, all of the monkeys were replaced so that none of the original monkeys 
were in the cage. Whenever a monkey tried to climb to retrieve 
the food, the other monkeys, who themselves have no knowl-edge of why they do this, tackled the hungry monkey down.
The study carries with it deep implications about how 
knowledge is transferred. Although humans aren’t monkeys, 
we here at the Alligator can’t help but feel like there are paral-
lels in human learning.
When boys ﬁ  rst start to use public restrooms, it’s not un-
common for them to drop the entirety of their pants to the 
ﬂ  oor, lift their shirts up with two hands and more or less blast the urinal with piss. As they age, they learn to simply unzip their pants and modestly relieve themselves without showing their bare asses. Moreover, the decision on which urinal you choose becomes a mathematical equation. Every man read-ing this editorial knows the complex and intricate calculus we endure when entering a restroom and choosing a urinal. If there’s an edge spot available with nobody next to it, you take it. If no such spot exists, ﬁ  nd one middle spot with nobody next to either side of it. We won’t belabor the point by go-ing into the thousands of hypotheticals that are possible, but know that every man undergoes this complex and intricate process upon entering the restroom. Seriously, do not under-estimate how complex this process is.
At this point, you may be wondering to yourself, “What 
does this have to do with the monkeys in Kohler’s experi-ment?” Well, the whole point of that study was to better understand how knowledge is transferred silently. Like the monkeys that never say, “Don’t go to the top because then you’ll spray us all,” no father ever says to his son, “Don’t drop your pants all the way down because you look like a moron.” Eventually, boys see the behavior of people around them and modify their own behavior around it. 
Oftentimes unintentional, when we are being raised as 
children, the ideas and behaviors of those around us slowly become our own. We unknowingly adopt their values, their principles and their understanding of how the world works. It’s incredibly common for our beliefs to be that of our parents, or that of the society in which we were raised. Like monkeys in cages or boys in bathrooms, there’s a silent set of funda-mental rules and assumptions that we inherit when we are raised. We urge you to question and prod that assumed funda-mental knowledge from which all of your other decisions and worldviews are based.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
You’ve probably heard of fracking 
before. For those of you who have not heard of it, let me provide a brief 
overview. Fracking is another name 
for hydraulic fracturing, which is a 
drilling technique used to extract oil or natu-ral gas from deep underground. Right now, 
fracking is a hotly debated topic both envi-
ronmentally and politically. Some people say it’s ﬁ  ne, safe and economically sustainable. Others disagree, claiming it leads to con-taminated drinking water, air pollution and 
heightened conditions for global warming.
Dear readers, it is high time we stop car-
ing as deeply about our wallets as we do 
about our planet. I am not going to try to 
argue money isn’t important. I am a ﬁ  rm 
believer that a strong economy is vital to a country’s success, and economic sustainabil-ity should be considered when discovering the best method to obtain resources. How-
ever, I do not believe economic sustainability 
should be the most important factor in the decision.Fracking has been described 
as a safe and clean way to obtain power sources. This sounds ﬁ  ne, 
but we can speak in generic terms 
all we want without actually cit-ing real effects. If we take a look at the facts, we see that “safe” 
and “clean” are just about the last 
words that would accurately de-scribe the effects of fracking.
First, a well is drilled into the 
ground. Then, ﬂ  uid is pumped 
into the well to fracture the rock. This ﬂ  uid 
is mostly water, but it can contain many ad-ditives and chemicals that serve a purpose but can have harmful effects on the water. 
Malfunctions of this system have led to thou-
sands of gallons of contaminated water to be spewed. A speciﬁ  c instance in Pennsylvania resulted in this happening for more than 12 hours.
In addition, drinking water can become 
contaminated. Legal settlements and nondis-closure agreements prevent against incidents being publicized, but there have been several publicized incidents from Pennsylvania and New York. 
The air can also become contami-
nated. Contaminants found have been linked to birth defects, neu-rological problems, cancer and 
blood disorders. Seismic activ-
ity has been linked to fracking as well. Oklahoma’s strongest record-ed earthquake is believed to have been caused by fracking, along 
with 180 tremors and nine earthquakes in Texas.
Fracking is not as perfect a solution to our 
energy problem as many may think, and if 
we continue to approve it, other more sus-
tainable solutions may be overlooked. We may stop researching or putting as much ef-fort into ﬁ  nding another way. Especially with a huge drop in gas prices, people are in no 
hurry to ﬁ  x a problem they may not even 
realize exists. Are you nostalgic for the time when gas was $4 per gallon? Yeah, I don’t think anyone is. But we have to realize that maybe this isn’t the most important issue at stake here. I know this isn’t an issue that af-
fects many of your daily lives, but in order to 
combat the huge environmental issues that plague us, we have to look beyond our little bubbles.
We live in a time when, despite over-
whelming evidence, people continue to deny climate change. Educate yourself. Learn the facts. Understand what you vote for and what your representatives are doing. Frack-
ing is not our only problem, but it’s a big 
one. If we want our planet to be around for our children and our children’s children, we can’t just sit around and assume the higher-
ups know what they’re doing. Get involved. 
Write to your representatives. Money is im-portant, but so is our home. We can ﬁ  x an economy, but we only have one planet. Save it.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF psychology and 
journalism sophomore. Her column appears on Mondays.
What the frack? A look at fracking economics and why we should careColumn
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.org
I’d like my latte with an extra shot of poli-
tics, please.
This week, Donald Trump fans 
showed their support for the president-
elect by having Starbucks baristas write 
“Trump” on their coffee cups in an act of soli-darity with a man who was refused a drink that he wanted labeled “Trump.”
These aren’t the only protests the U.S. has 
seen in the past couple weeks. Trump sup-porters also took to Twitter this weekend to spread the hashtag #BoycottHamilton in pro-test of the blockbuster Broadway show. Vice President-elect Mike Pence was booed as he entered Richard Rodgers Theatre on Nov. 18, and at the end of the performance, cast mem-ber Brandon Victor Dixon delivered a short appeal to Pence.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the aisle, 
there have been so many anti-Trump protests that there is a Wikipedia page documenting them all. Many people have criticized anti-Trump protests for not being peaceful and dismissed the expressions as being childish.
With all of these criticisms of different forms of protest ﬂ  oating around, it is important to consider what the First Amendment says about the matter. How do free speech and the right to protest ﬁ  t in here?
The U.S. Constitution is quite ob-
jective about the matter. The First Amendment protects “peaceful pub-lic assembly,” but not assemblies that cause violence or present the clear and present danger of a riot. 
From my perspective, it seems many use 
these guidelines to judge how “kosher” a spe-ciﬁ  c protest or a form of protest is.
So it is true all peaceful protests are 
equally legitimate expressions under the First Amendment, and that assembly in which there is a clear and present danger of a riot is not protected. However, considering the history of our nation, I think it is unfair and ignorant to completely denigrate a protest be-cause it’s not peaceful.
Let me be clear: I’m not advocating for 
or condoning violence in any form. Period. However, protest is, by nature, gritty. The point of a protest is to be disrup-tive.
Think of Shay’s Rebellion, the 
Whiskey Rebellion, Nat Turner’s slave rebellion, John Brown’s raid on Harper’s Ferry, the Great Rail-road Strike or the Pullman Strike. Or the ﬁ  ght for the 19th Amend-ment, Zoot Suit riots, Birming-ham, Watts and the Long Hot Summer of 1967, Black Panthers 
and parts of the civil rights movement, Stone-wall riots, Occupy Wall Street, Black Lives Matter protests and the recent Dakota Access pipeline protests. I could go on. None of these protests adhered strictly to the rules of the First Amendment. But all of these protests were and remain to be incredibly formative in weaving the fabric of American culture and politics.
Workers rights, minority rights and wom-
en’s suffrage would be different today if not for these protests. They worked because the public listened. Although the public may not have agreed with the methods, they were unable to dismiss them. We internalized the messages of the protesters and used them to move forward and make our country what it is today.
In the end, you might not agree with a 
method of protest, and I’m not asking you to. The First Amendment may not even pro-tect the form of protest. But just because you think it’s dumb that people are asking for #TrumpCups or that people blocking trafﬁ  c in protest of Trump’s policy plans is danger-ous and pointless, doesn’t mean you can ig-nore the point of the protest. Every protest has a message behind it. If we want to move forward in this country, it is important to un-derstand the message behind forms of pro-test, rather than judge the legitimacy of the method of the protest itself. Only then can we address the root of the problem in a real and tangible way and make an effort to eradicate civil discontent.
This column was originally published in 
the Daily Bruin by Claire Hubert. She is a second year pre-international development and French student.
Listening, not dismissing, the diﬀ  erent messages behind political protestsUWire
Claire Hubert
UWire
8   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
About 400 people await the arrival of Santa Claus on Sunday evening during the Tioga T own Center 
Holiday Festival and Tree Lighting.
Danscompany of Gainesville poses for a photo on their Cinderella Carriage before performing a Cinderella dance at the Tioga T own Center Holiday Festival and Tree Lighting.
Santa Claus and Mrs. Claus begin the countdown for the tree lighting with the crowd on Sunday evening at the Tioga T own Center Holiday Festival and Tree Lighting.
The crowd walks through the Tioga T own Center Holiday Festival and Tree Lighting after the tree is lit. About 400 people attended the event on Sunday evening.
From left: Katrine Dunn, the owner of the Saporito Oil, Vinegar, Spice local restaurant, gives samples of olive oil and balsamic vinegar to Gail Owen during the Tioga T own Center Holiday Festival and Tree Lighting on Sunday evening.
SANTA COMES TO TIOGA
Photos by T aylor Cook, Alligator Staff
About 400 people attended the Tioga T own Center Holiday Festival and Tree Lighting on Sunday eve-ning. The special holiday event had several activities for children such as bounce houses, pony rides and the chance to sit on Santa Claus’ lap to take a photo with him. The shops extended business hours to allow the large crowds to shop later than usual. Before Santa arrived at 6:30 p.m., Gainesville’s Westside Baptist Church choir sang Christmas songs on the square to count down the lighting of the giant Christmas tree at Tioga T own Center.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
  By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer 
During a 14-minute meeting Tuesday 
night, Student Senate added three members 
to the elections commission and passed one 
resolution. 
With 54 senators present, Senate was able 
to hold the meeting, since a minimum of 51 
senators need to be there, Senate President 
Smith Meyers said. Senate approved new members to the commission and a resolution 
conﬁ  rming Spring Student Government elec-
tion dates.
Troy Mainzer, Michael Livers and Ste-
fano Battistoni were added to the commis-sion without objection. UF Student Body President Susan Webster, Supreme Court 
Chief Justice Chris Tribbey and Meyers each 
nominated one member to the commission, 
SG Judiciary Committee Chairman Trevor 
Scheattle said. 
The six election commissioners serve 
one-year terms, with three members being replaced every Spring and Fall. Three new 
members needed to be added, Scheattle said. 
Senate also approved having Spring SG 
election voting days Feb. 21 and Feb. 22, with a runoff election from Feb. 28 to March 1 if needed. 
Meyers said the runoff election will only 
be held if the election resulted in a tie or was contested. Changed dates will not affect cam-paigning. 
During her report, Allocations Committee 
Chairwoman Janae Moodie (Impact, Liberal Arts) congratulated senators who were pres-
ent. 
“Thank you once again for coming and 
making quorum; this is awesome,” she said. 
Forty-four senators were absent at the 
meeting. 
“I think people probably made plans, es-
pecially traveling with their family members to leave Gainesville,” Meyers said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org   Student Senate approves 
Spring SG election dates
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
After being denied from purchasing a gun 
earlier this month, a Muslim Santa Fe College 
student believes his religion motivated the 
Gainesville Bass Pro Shops to turn him away.
Malik Bakr, an 18-year-old business ad-
ministration freshman, planned to buy a riﬂ  e 
from the outdoor chain’s Butler Plaza North 
location Nov. 18, intent on using the weapon for a hunting trip, he said.
He waited an hour and a half before an 
employee tended to him, Bakr said.
But before he could undergo a back-
ground check to buy the weapon at the 4526 SW Archer Road store, he said he felt the stare of another employee, who then slipped 
his co-worker a yellow slip of paper. 
Soon enough, a manager approached 
Bakr, he said.
The manager told Bakr he felt uncomfort-
able selling him the riﬂ  e for fear he would 
give the weapon to someone else, which Bakr said he considered an unfounded fear. 
At the shop with him that day was his friend 
Heath Smiley, a 19-year-old who owns his 
own guns, he said.
“I came to the conclusion that there was 
nothing but racism, because there was no 
reason for these people to deny me a weap-
on,” Bakr said.
Bakr said the general manager of the 
store, Mike O’Brien, said he would look into the incident. He also offered to sell Bakr the 
weapon, which Bakr declined.
Via email, O’Brien declined to comment 
on the conversation, which he called conﬁ  -
dential.
“Bass Pro Shops takes the selling of ﬁ  re-
arms very seriously, fully complying with all 
local, state and federal laws and regulations 
in place. Our store associates participate in 
extensive educational training programs that 
actively promote safety and responsibility,” 
O’Brien wrote in a statement.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  Muslim student denied 
riﬂ  e, alleges discrimination
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF lecturer Kole Odutola will 
read a letter today addressed to 
Nelson Mandela. 
The letter is what Odutola 
would say to Mandela if he were 
alive today.
“When you remember the dead, 
it is not for the dead,” the Yoruba 
lecturer in the department of lan-guages, literatures and cultures said. “It is really for the ones alive. The ears of the dead are the eyes of the living.”
Organizations at UF will host 
the third-annual Mandela Day to-day at noon in Pugh Hall to com-memorate the life and legacy of Mandela, a South African politician who led the anti-apartheid move-ment. 
The event is being put on by 
the Center for African Studies, the African Student Union and the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, wrote Agnes Leslie, the outreach director for the Center for African Studies, in an email.Faculty and 
students will speak about Mandela’s legacy and how it car-ries over today, 
Leslie said. After the speeches, the group will march 
while singing 
and dancing to the site of a tree 
that was planted outside Grinter Hall during the ﬁ  rst Mandela Day. The group will continue to perform as a tribute to Mandela, she said.Odutola said he was recruited 
for the event from his former stu-dents who knew about his passion for African issues. 
He contacted about six South 
African women, who either ad-mired or were upset about Man-dela and had them write letters, which he will read.
UF history professor Paul Ortiz, 
who helped organize the event, will speak about Mandela’s role as a leader in social movements. 
Mandela was a believer in mass 
action, which helped gather global attention about the apartheid, he said. 
Ortiz remembers the massive 
support across the U.S. for the anti-apartheid movement while he was in college. His speech will discuss 
the movement’s roots, successes 
and Mandela’s role with it. 
“He was seen really in many 
ways as the leader of a movement in exile,” Ortiz said. “The anti-apartheid movement was some-thing we could support. It was also something where it really taught a lot of us what a democratic social movement could be, how power-ful it could be, how inspirational it 
could be.”   
 UF students, professors to honor Nelson Mandela today
Mandela
It will be the third annual Mandela Day at UFMONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  edsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
1 large furnished bed w/sliding glass doors 
leading to small back yard in 2/1 Town home 
w/ female student. Washer/dryer and dish-
washer inside.High speed internet. $325 mo 
and split electric 352-631-0737
12-7-16-24-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   1-4-16-17-22BR - Small pet ok$535/mo
Call 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901    12-7-
16-17-2
Nice house, shady lot, close to UF law 
school, bus to SFC. Pool, living room fur-nished. 4BR/3BA, 2100 sq ft. 2816 W Univ Ave. $1500/mo or small 1BR $375/mo. Call/ text 352-327-2931, nghe@msn.com    12-2-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
★★ POTTED CHRISTMAS TREES ★★
Southern red cedar & Arizona cypress, 3-30 
gal. $9-75. Open Sat & Sun 10am - 6pm. 
Nov 26th - Dec 24th. 20926 NW 75th St., 
Alachua. BK Cedars. 386-418-8031    12-7-
16-10-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto SalesNO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale
 1 For Rent: Furnished 2 For Rent: Unfurnished 3 Sublease 4 Roommates 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings 7 Computers 8 Electronics 9 Bicycles 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 17 Typing Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment 22 Tickets 23 Rides 24 Pets 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina-
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classiﬁ  cations. We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classiﬁ  ed Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Ofﬁ  ce2700 SW 13th St.M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classiﬁ  eds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two publication days later. Ads may run for any length of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the ﬁ  rst day will not be further compensated.Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classiﬁ  ed12 AutosMONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKS
Running or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-12
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     12-7-16-19-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil-ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Designated drivers are the greatest
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE
- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay
- Super close to campus!
- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm
- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
Hiring for sales executives. PT/FT
Call or text 336-493-8335  OR 352-777-6478
Send resume: mannie@Lgfsupport.com    
11-30-16-16-14
NOW HIRING SERVERS
Apply today - Start tomorrow!
Earn $15-$20/hour - PT & FT
miapalatincafe.com/careers    1-4-16-17-14
Film Producer-Director-Writer**WANTED**Collaboration on reality TV show concept. Responible to film, arrange, edit, compile clips and help make presentation to pro-duction company interested in project. Partnership & credit. soofinc@yahoo.com     12-2-16-10-14
RGIS, LLC
No Experience Needed, Part Time Flex Hrs,
Entry Level
Paid Training
Access To Reliable Transportation And
Communication
RGIS is an equal opportunity employer /Vet/
Disabled
$9.00/hr to start, apply online at RGIS.com    
1-6-16-13-14
**GatorWell is Hiring!**
Front Desk Wellness Edu Student Outgoing & health conscious All majors welcome to applyjobs.ufl.edu   Req. # 500529     12-2-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 “Get lost!’
6 Google __:
geographical app
10 Ruth with bats14 Egypt’s capital15 They may clash
on a movie set
16 Environmental sci.
17 *Power source
that plugs into a
computer port
19 Physics particle20 Andes, e.g.:
Abbr.
21 Against
22 Make amends
(for)
23 *“Airplane!” flight
number, to the
control tower
26 Boats with
double-bladedpaddles
29 Forget to include30 Mosque leader31 Address for
Bovary
33 Having one flat,
musically
36 *Carl Icahn or
Michael Milken
40 Billy the __41 Father or son
New York
governor
42 Head, to Henri
43 Suffix with joke or
pun
44 Gratify46 *Castle gate-
busting weapon
51 Going on, to
Sherlock
52 Lily pad squatter53 Sock hop site
56 “The Mod Squad”
cop
57 Home of the
player at the
ends of the
answers to
starred clues
60 Actor Estrada61 Be complicit in,
as a caper
62 Giraffe kin63 Exec’s asst.64 TiVo
predecessors
65 Jotted down
DOWN
1 Film on stagnant
water
2 Film credits list3 Barbecue fare
4 Smile shape5 Iroquoian people,
or a hair stylenamed for them
6 Fred or Ethel of
old TV
7 Texas A&M
athlete
8 19th-century
master of themacabre
9 Old Rus. state
10 “Get lost!”
11 Follow, as a tip
12 Trailblazing
Daniel
13 Roundheaded
Fudd
18 Yucatán years
22 Jungian inner
self
23 Pack (down)
24 Calf-roping event25 Poet Khayyám26 Punt or field goal27 Mine, to Marcel
28 One of 100
between end
zones
31 Native New
Zealander
32 Source of quick
cash, briefly
33 Brainstorm34 Butterfly catchers
35 For nothing
37 Eight-musician
group
38 Regretful sort39 Bulleted list entry
43 Heavyset44 Plum’s title in
Clue, briefly
45 Blue or black
water of filmdom
46 Hay bundles47 Burning48 Mixer with gin
49 Player
referenced in 57-Across’ clue,
briefly
50 Southern side dish53 Tiny biting insect
54 “Eek!”
55 Hotel room cleaner
57 Cleveland cager,
for short
58 “Easy as” letters
59 Old studio letters
By Jake Braun
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/28/1611/28/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Monday, November 28, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
 11/28/16
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?
Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible Lawyer
Douglas A. Willis
Reasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-
21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.orgTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
15 Services 18 Personals 23 RidesFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
"First thing you do is don't show them the ﬁ  lm."
-UF football coach Jim McElwain , when asked how he will instill conﬁ  dence 
in his offense heading into Saturday's game against No. 1 Alabama.Austin Appleby and the Gators lost to FSU on Saturday.See photos from the game, pg. 15.By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
After an agonizing loss 
against No. 11 Gonzaga on Fri-day, Florida found itself on the wrong end of a 9-0 Miami run to start the second half on Sunday.
But in stepped redshirt fresh-
man Keith Stone, who entered 
the game having played less than 
an hour total in his young college career. 
Stone sparked a run that led 
the Gators (6-1) to a 65-56 win 
over the Hurricanes (4-2) to 
claim third place in the Advocare Invitational at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in Or-
lando. 
Stone’s 15 points smashed 
his previous high of four, as he 
went 5-of-8 from the ﬁ  eld with two threes. 
Point guard Kasey Hill, a 
senior, said he was proud of Stone’s performance. 
“Every day he comes to prac-
tice, and he competes. I think he gave us some great minutes,” Hill said. 
“He’s gonna help us through-
out the year.”
Hill, meanwhile, led Florida 
with 16 points, including 8-of-10 from the free-throw line. 
Florida started the game slug-
gish, feeling the effects from playing three games in four days. But six points from Stone and back-to-back attacking layups from Hill gave the Gators a 27-24 lead. They turned that into a 34-30 lead entering half-time.
After a sloppy last minute of 
the half, coach Mike White could see exhaustion creeping in. 
“It’s day four,” White said on 
a television broadcast at half-time. 
“Both teams are a little bit 
beat up and tired.” 
For UF, the fatigue showed 
when it emerged from the locker room. 
The Gators missed their ﬁ  rst 
three shots of the second half and turned the ball over, giving Miami a 39-34 lead.
“Miami’s very long and ath-
letic. We’ve gotta do a better job defensively of just digging deep," White said, “knowing one of us is going home with two wins, 
(and) one of us is going home 
with one win.”But after a quick scoring spurt 
and tight defense, the Gators tied the game at 43 and took the lead 
with another layup from Hill. 
In the end, Florida forced Mi-
ami into taking enough tough shots, allowing the Gators to 
string together a series of runs. 
Florida’s defense, powered by 
a four-block performance from 
 Gators ﬁ  nish strong, top Miami in OrlandoFLORIDA 65, MIAMI 56
Jim McElwain took to the mi-crophone following the football team’s loss to Florida State on Saturday looking like he’d just been told about a dead relative.
“Guys,” he announced to the as-
sembled reporters, “that was a disap-
pointing ballgame for us.”
It was in crisp contrast to his mood 
a week earlier after his team beat LSU in the game’s ﬁ  nal minutes. At that press conference, he spoke roughly 1,500 glowing words about how proud he was of his team, even tak-ing a subtle shot at his critics.
“I just can’t tell you how proud I 
am of our players, our staff and hap-
py for the Gator fans that, you know, 
don’t think we’re very good, but all we do is end up back in Atlanta, right?” he said, referencing UF’s SEC East Champion status. “So that’s pret-ty cool.”
After the loss to FSU, however, he 
was less subtle about the criticism. 
Speaking for fewer than 500 words, 
the second-year coach didn’t feel like answering for his team’s struggles, instead opting for such phrases as, “They played their tails off,” on three separate occasions. And when pressed for answers about Florida’s difﬁ  culties, he reverted to sarcasm — a common practice for McElwain, and one that’s going to get him in trouble 
if he continues to lose big games.
It started with the ﬁ  rst question, 
which was about how the team strug-
gled to stop the Seminoles’ star run-ning back Dalvin Cook.
“You watched the game, didn’t 
you?” he quipped at a reporter. “That guy’s pretty good and our guys did a pretty good job on him.” 
I’m not sure how allowing Cook 
to run for 153 yards and a 5.9 yards-per-carry average can be considered a “good job,” no matter how good he — or anyone — is. But hey, it’s an im-provement over last year’s 183 yards. So there’s that. 
His sarcasm and temper became McElwain 
missed the 
mark in presserSWEET AND BAUER
The Associated Press
Kasey Hill dribbles during Florida's win over FGCU on Nov. 11. Hill led the Gators in scoring against 
Miami and went 8-of-10 from the free-throw line.
Hill led UF with 16 points
SEE HOOPS,  PAGE 16
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 16
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri14   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Travis Rudolph raced across the 
middle of the field and waltzed into the end zone for a 46-yard touchdown catch in the third quar-ter.
They cheered after each of Dal-
vin Cook’s explosive running plays — and there were plenty, includ-ing one where it seemed as if the future NFL player had shot out 
of a cannon for an 18-yard gain 
through the middle of UF’s defense 
in the second half.
And they cheered as two Flor-
ida receivers collided with each 
other while running their routes 
during the fourth quarter, leaving 
Appleby with no choice but to tuck the ball into his stomach and fall to the grass for a sack.
“It’s on all of us,” Appleby said. 
“We got to get it fixed.”
The only time it seemed as if the 
Gators had a chance was during the first possession of the game, 
when they marched down the field 
from their own 25-yard line to the 
Seminoles’ 2, going for it on fourth down but failing to convert.
Florida was unable to score an 
offensive touchdown on Saturday. 
Over the last four years against 
FSU, UF has scored two offensive touchdowns in its last 50 drives.
And next week against No. 1 
Alabama, which has the nation’s 
best scoring defense and rushing 
defense, it will only grow more dif-ficult.
“I’m hoping everyone just re-
alizes this is our shot to win a championship,” Ivie said. “If that doesn’t motivate you to win a championship, you shouldn’t be playing.”
The Crimson Tide haven’t lost 
since Sept. 19 of last year, and haven’t lost to the Gators since 2008.
UF knows Saturday will be the 
toughest challenge it has faced all season. And after last week’s loss, coach Jim McElwain openly doubt-ed if his players will bounce back.
“I don’t know if they will come 
back or not,” McElwain said. “It’ll be a heck of a test.”
But Florida’s players, despite 
beating just one of their four top-25 opponents this season, ex-pressed confidence that they can win against Alabama, the top team 
in the nation and defending NCAA 
champions.
“I believe we’re the type of team that can beat (them),” Ivie 
said. “We just need to fix some 
things.”
The Gators will have less than a 
week to do so.
But with its playoff hopes gone 
and a difficult challenge looming on Saturday, UF will be playing for 
much less than what it expected just a few days ago: a shot at its 
first national title in eight years.
“We’re going to come back and 
get everything fixed,” Appleby 
said. “We’ll be ready to go win an (SEC) championship this week.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 1Ivie: ‘I believe we’re the type of team that can beat Alabama’
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby, left, escapes from pressure in the pocket during Florida’s 31-13 loss to Florida State on Saturday in T allahassee. Appleby threw for 149 yards and completed 19 of his 35 passes. “We’re going to come back and get everything fixed, ” Appleby said.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF receiver Brandon Powell (4) lies on the field after Florida State defensive back Marquez White (27) tackles him. Powell caught three passes for 17 yards against FSU.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jimbo Fisher, left, talks with Dalvin Cook following the Seminoles’ win on Saturday. Cook, who will enter the 2017 NFL Draft,  played the last home game of his FSU career Saturday,16   ALLIGATOR   MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2016
more pronounced from there and ﬁ  nally 
boiled over about half way through the press conference, starting with a question about how his team can put this loss past it and prepare for Alabama. 
“I don’t know if they will come back or 
not,” he said. “It’ll be a heck of a test.”
The reporter who asked that question 
asked a reasonable follow-up: Does it con-cern you that you don’t know if they’ll “come back or not?”
“Don’t you think it would?” McElwain 
answered. “I would say it would. Yeah, I’m concerned.”
But then, after a few more words in be-
tween, McElwain wasn’t having it anymore.
“Our team will be ready!” he ﬁ  red at the 
reporter. “I have no idea what kind of ques-tion that was, but to question that locker room and those players..."
To me, it seems contradictory to ac-
knowledge that yes, he is concerned about how his team will respond this weekend 
against Alabama and then, in the same 
breath, ponder how someone could ques-tion his players.
After all, it seems that he questioned them before any reporter did.
Finally, he was asked about his team’s 
consistent offensive ineptitude, which he re-
sponded to with more sarcasm.
“You have to block them ﬁ  rst,” he an-
swered. “That helps.” 
I personally love sarcasm. And normally, 
I think it’s a good quality that McElwain 
doesn’t take himself too seriously. 
But after ﬂ  opping against rival Florida 
State for the second season in a row, it was pretty damn frustrating to hear clever 
comebacks rather than substantive answers 
about why his team performed so poorly. 
He did give one answer that seemed sin-
cere toward the end of the press conference, however. Asked if seeing what Jimbo Fisher has built at Florida State serves as motiva-tion for what he can accomplish at Florida, McElwain was blunt and conﬁ  dent.
“Yeah, and we’ll get there,” he said. 
“We’ll get there.” 
But the time to get there is inching closer 
by the day. And McElwain isn’t doing him-self any favors by refusing to answer for Florida’s struggles. 
Ethan Bauer is the assistant sports edi-
tor. You can contact him at ebauer@alliga-
tor.org or follow him on Twitter @ebaueri. COLUMN,  from pg. 13
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Coach Jim McElwain looks on during his team's loss to Florida State on Saturday. 
"We'll get there, " he said of UF reaching the same success as FSU. 
center John Egbunu, held Miami to under 40-percent shooting and under 30-percent shooting from three. 
But Miami’s offense had its mo-
ments, including a 16-9 advantage in offensive rebounds that led to multiple second-chance scores. 
“It’s just something that we 
have to improve at,” UF assistant coach Dusty May said after the game. 
“We’ve gotta get ﬁ  ve guys pur-
suing the defensive rebounds a lot more than we are right now.”
On the offensive side of the 
court, the Gators hit more than 46 percent of their shots, largely due to efﬁ  cient shooting from Hill, Stone and forward Devin Robin-son.
Robinson has scored in double 
ﬁ  gures in six of Florida’s seven games. 
Florida’s bench ﬁ  nished with 
19 points compared to the Hur-ricanes’ 10, all scored by Miami freshman forward Dewan Huell.
May said that Stone’s break-
out game showed how much of a weapon he can be in the second 
unit.
“He was phenomenal,” May 
said.
“His time is coming. Hopeful-
ly he keeps playing like this be-cause he can be an x-factor off the 
bench.”
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org HOOPS,  from pg. 13Florida shot over 46 
percent against Miami 
The Associated Press
John Egbunu celebrates during Florida's loss to Gonzaga on Friday. 
