CITY IN THE SWAMP
A Look At Gainesville’s Growth
+
UF vs. LSU
On Nov. 19, it’s game on
PIPE DREAMS
The ﬁ  ght against Sabal Trail
HOMECOMING HYPE
The life of UF’s hype man
TAILGATORS
Next to Century Tower, the same Gator 
alumni celebrate every home game.
HOMECOMING EDITIONWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 39 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 T oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  65°
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarThe Alligator strives to be 
accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 39
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s........$45.00  (74.75)
6................$75.00 (103.50)
6+..........$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th Street
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
SPORTS
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will play LSU this season — but not in 
Gainesville. 
After a week of uncertainty about the 
fate of the annual Southeastern Conference 
matchup — originally scheduled for Oct. 8 in 
Gainesville but postponed due to Hurricane 
Matthew — both teams announced Thurs-day the game will be played Nov. 19 in Baton Rouge.
Florida athletics director Jeremy Foley said 
Thursday that the decision was largely a re-ﬂ  ection of Louisiana State University ofﬁ  cials “drawing a line in the sand,” refusing to play anywhere other than Baton Rouge that week-end. 
He added that as a result, Florida had to 
“step up” and make concessions to play the 
game.“They were committed to their position,” 
Foley said, “and while I may not agree with 
it, you know, I respect that they’re trying to 
do what they think is best for their institution 
as well.”
Both teams originally had home games 
scheduled for the weekend of Nov. 19 (UF vs. Presbyterian College and LSU vs. the Univer-sity of South Alabama). Both games have been canceled.
As a trade-off for the move, LSU will play 
at UF in both 2017 and 2018. In addition, this 
year’s game can’t be played later than 3:30 
p.m., according to the University Athletic As-sociation. No ofﬁ  cial start time has been an-nounced. 
UF will also lose $7.8 million in ticket rev-
enue due to the loss of two home games, ac-cording to the Associated Press, but the losses will be covered by the SEC. 
Despite having to compensate the univer-sity, SEC league commissioner Greg Sankey was appreciative of UF’s willingness to move the game. 
“I want to give credit to the University of 
Florida for making concessions to move this year’s game to Baton Rouge,” Sankey said.
Meanwhile, LSU athletics director Joe Alle-
va — who was adamant that he did everything possible to get the game played in Gainesville last weekend, whether on Saturday, Sunday or Monday — said in a statement he was “happy” to have the game moved to Louisi-
ana. He added he hopes the mess that resulted 
from the postponement will be addressed. 
“I hope that we can all learn from this ex-
perience,” he said, “and as a league, be in a better position to deal with these situations in the future.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgUF to play rescheduled LSU game in Baton Rouge
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Data on Gainesville Police’s de-
mographics and use of force could 
be available as soon as next summer.
GPD announced Thursday that 
it has joined the White House Po-lice Data Initiative, in which law-enforcement agencies, technologists and researchers collect and release police-department data to strengthen 
accountability, according to a White 
House press release. The initiative ﬁ  rst launched in May 2015.
The department is one of 80 law-
enforcement agencies in the country to join this year, said GPD spokes-
man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias. GPD is one 
of six Florida jurisdictions to partici-pate, according to the Department of 
Justice.Participating law-enforcement 
agencies will all now be able to re-
ceive training and technical assis-tance on how to increase transpar-ency and use open data, the DOJ 
announced Thursday.
Tobias said GPD hopes to release 
four data sets by summer 2017. 
These sets will include data on the demographics of GPD’s arrests and 
about its ofﬁ  cers, trafﬁ  c citations, use of force and community engage-
ment.
GPD Chief Tony Jones heard 
about the initiative through contacts 
at the DOJ and wanted to join, To-
bias said.
“Gainesville and the Gainesville 
Police Department have wanted to 
move toward transparency,” Tobias said. “It’s the way to provide trust in 
the community.”Data will most likely be released 
through the City of Gainesville’s on-line dataGNV portal, Tobias said. He 
said he is not sure from what date 
the data will start.
“There’s still a lot of factors that 
we don’t have set in stone yet,” To-
bias said.
@ceostroff 
costroff@alligator.orgGPD to release data through White House partnership WHAT ABOUT MY TICKETS?
I have season tickets. Will I get a refund 
for both games?
Yes. The University Athletic Association 
will send a message with speciﬁ  cs to stu-
dents with season tickets, but refunds will 
be given to the account used to purchase 
season tickets. 
I bought a single-game ticket. Do I get a 
refund?
Yes. You can apply your money toward 
2017 season tickets or be refunded. Refunds must be requested by Friday, Oct. 28.
I’m not a student, but I have season tick-
ets. What happens to my refund?
You will have your ticket money applied 
to 2017 season ticket costs. If you want, you can also request a refund, but that must be done by Friday, Oct. 28.
More information on ticket refunds 
will be posted to FloridaGators.com by Friday morning, according to the UAA. By Molly Donovan  
and Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writers
Richard Schultz, 59, spent $19,000 per-
fecting a 1973 UF-themed Volkswagen VW 
Westfalia bus.
Rowdy Bateman, 69, started hosting tail-
gates at UF in 1975.
Brian Orta, 25, began bringing his own 
trailer last year, complete with a “tailgating Bible.”
On football gamedays, they all park next 
to Century Tower, setting up beneath the shade. Together, the three groups of Gator enthusiasts represent the traditions of tail-gating. 
For Schultz, it’s the time spent with his 
family, friends, football and food that brings him back week after week. 
“We’re now known for being here,” 
Schultz said. “It’s kind of a rule.”
•   •   •For the past eight years, Schultz has 
parked his beige Volkswagen directly in front of Century Tower. 
Schultz’s group of tailgaters is often visit-
ed by strangers who walk through the heart of campus. They’re attracted to the renovat-ed bus with an alligator head placed in front 
of it, biting a stuffed animal of the mascot 
of whichever team UF is playing that week. 
Schultz, who lives in Melrose, Florida, 
and graduated from UF in 1978 with a bach-elor’s degree in advertising, began tailgating with his son-in-law, Blaine Hess, about 15 years ago with just a truck. When he inher-ited the Volkswagen from his wife’s family, he spent a year and a half renovating it.
 After spending $1,100 to ship the bus 
from California, he stripped it down to noth-ing. It cost about $19,000 for renovations, including new orange and blue cushions and paint.
The original wood paneling remains, as 
well as an ice box instead of a fridge and space for two cots inside. A sign sitting over the bus’s window reads “Gator Room.” 
It was when he finished the bus that his 
family and friends began to flock to tailgates.“They were all over it,” he said. “They 
absolutely were thrilled by it.”
Almost without fail, Schultz, who is 
called Papa by the tailgaters, arrives at his spot as early as 6 a.m. He drives to campus 
and meets with up to 40 friends and fam-
ily from across North Florida to set up camp — a process that sometimes takes up to an hour and a half.
Schultz unpacks meticulously. First, it’s 
the tent behind the bus with chairs on the steps of the tower. Then the TV, connected to a satellite dish and generator, is set in the back of the bus in time for “SEC Nation” at 
10 a.m. The food is placed under another 
tent on the right side of the tower, and then all the decorations are laid out. 
“Once we got the bus, it became more of 
a family tradition,” Schultz said. “It evolved from just two of us.”
Schultz’s group is careful to leave the 
front of Century Tower how they found it, he said. They don’t use open flames, and he 
double- and triple-checks for leftover trash. 
The bus sometimes even goes to the Uni-
versity of Georgia game in Jacksonville. In 
the future, they might start traveling more, he said. 
Although Schultz didn’t tailgate when 
he was at UF — he preferred to prepare for games in the residence halls — he’s now an avid fan of the tradition. He’ll entertain 
whomever stops by to grab a seat and en-
joy some home-cooked food. But the groups of other tailgaters he sees every week sur-rounding the tower really make Saturdays special. 
“I enjoy tailgating, personally, as much 
or even more than I do going into the game,” Schultz said.  
•   •   •
On the tower’s left on an open lawn, loud 
music blares from speakers beside a tricked-out trailer. 
Bateman, of Arcadia, Florida, brings any-
where from 50 to 180 people with his trailer, 
an enclosed room decked out with Gator 
paraphernalia, which transports his TV and speakers to the tower. 
He and his wife, Dottie, have hosted tail-
gates since 1975.
Over the years, crowds have changed as 
people come and go. They once hosted 180 people, but the main tailgaters remain the Batemans, who have grown up, season after 
season, celebrating next to the tower. 
Bateman said he graduated from UF in 
1970 with a bachelor’s degree in political 
science. Tailgating has always been part of Gainesville’s culture, he said. 
“After a tour in the Army, and babies, 
we started coming back up,” Bateman said. “This is kind of our home.”
The Batemans and their guests claim 
their spot beside Century Tower for every home game. Bateman said beyond tradition, tailgating has become a way for family and friends to spend quality time together. 
“As you get older, you appreciate differ-
ent things for different reasons,” Bateman said. “It’s a trip down Memory Lane, and it goes from gameday to a time when you can be with old friends.”
Bateman and his family drive four hours 
before every game to stake out their spot at about 6 a.m. 
“It’s just kind of what you do,” he said. 
“You have to have been here to know that.”
He said watching gamedays evolve over 
the years makes him feel nostalgic, but he wouldn’t have it any other way.
“We’ve kind of given in to the genera-
tional changes and changed as the univer-sity has changed, but all in a positive way,” he said. “I know we probably play our music too loud sometimes, but we just want it to be welcoming to everyone, whether you’re a Gator or not. That’s what the Gator Nation is about. Heck, I guess I want to do it till I can’t anymore.” 
•   •   •The most recent additions to the tower 
are Brian Orta and Rob Fusco, friends from their time in Gainesville six years ago. Their parties began at Parkside Apartments, where the two met in 2009, with just a grill and a 
TV. 
“We definitely had humble beginnings,” 
Orta said. “Eventually we thought, ‘Maybe 
we should move to campus.’”
In 2012, they gathered their “Motley 
Crew” and woke up before sunrise to claim the perfect on-campus space. They decided on the spot next to Steinbrenner Hall, across from Turlington Plaza, where they could 
hear the drum line. 
Orta said he remembers meeting Richard 
Schultz, his new neighbor, that morning.
“I remember that like it was yesterday,” 
Orta said. “It was early, it was cold, and we 
were setting up on our own for the first time. Rich came over and introduced himself. We got to talking, and we’ve been friends ever since.”
Orta graduated from UF with a bachelor’s 
degree in business administration in 2013 and received his master’s in health adminis-tration afterward. 
As he aged, so did his tailgate. “The first year of my master’s, I decided 
it was time to really step it up,” Orta said. 
Despite being at every home game, he 
said he and Fusco haven’t had tickets or at-
tended a game in the stadium in three years. 
“There’s just no need to, not when you’ve 
got it all set up right outside,” Orta said. 
After graduation, Orta moved to Miami, 
and Fusco to Oviedo, Florida. But the tail-
gates couldn’t stop. 
For every home game, Orta drives up 
from South Florida and stops to pick up Fus-co on the way. 
“It’s been us since the beginning,” Orta 
said. “I met 90 percent of my friends at that apartment complex, and now I can’t do this without (Fusco).”
For the 2015 season, they moved from 
Steinbrenner to join the group of Gator alumni who occupy the base of Century Tower. 
As the youngest tailgate hosts of the trio 
by a decade they said they fit right in with their neighbors, Schultz and Bateman, and even adopt some of their traditions. 
In 2015, Orta bought a trailer of his own 
from a Gator alumnus on Craigslist. 
“He had already tricked it out, and he 
even offered to come set it up,” Orta said. 
Inside, they found the “tailgate Bible.”A binder with more than 100 laminated 
pages, the “Bible” contains step-by-step in-structions for setting up the trailer, recipes for food and drinks, games and directions for a functioning bar and TV.
Orta and Fusco set up through rain or 
shine, assembling an orange tent covering about 10 folding chairs that face two big-screen TVs. 
Their spot takes a few hours to set up, 
and like their neighbors, they try to roll in while the sun is coming up.
“The whole thing is like changing clothes 
now,” Fusco said. 
If one group of the trio is running late, 
another will save their spot, Orta said.
They take in stragglers who wander up to 
watch the game, and the two say hospitality between fellow tailgates is a must. 
“It helps to have good neighbors,” Fusco 
said. “It’s the football family.”
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.org 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.org 4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Richard Schultz hangs a professional portrait of his bus in front of the Volkswagen’s 
window. 
Courtesy to the Alligator
From left: Travis Mercer and Brad Turner sit in the bed of a truck, tailgating with Rowdy Bateman near Century T ower. The Arcadia, Florida, residents are regulars at the party and come to most home games for food, drinking and football. 
The Tailgate Tradition: Gameday under Century Tower 
The bonds between three groups of “tailgators”FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
HOMECOMING, GAMEDAY ROAD CLOSURESHOW MUCH GATOR GROWL 
PERFORMERS WERE PAID Friday:
Gator Gallop (Closures begin at 10:55 a.m.)
• West University Avenue from 2200 block to 13th Street
• Southwest 13th Street from West University Avenue to 
Museum Road
Homecoming Parade (Closures begin at 11:45 a.m.)
• University Avenue from West 22nd Street to East Third Street• Main Street from North Second Avenue to South Fourth Avenue
Saturday:
UF vs. University of Missouri Football Game (Closures 
begin at 1 p.m. and end at 6 p.m.)
• University Avenue from Gale Lemerand Drive to 
Northwest 17th Street
Source: Gainesville Police• Maddie & T ae: $20,000
• Waka Flocka Flame: $30,000
• Timeﬂ  ies: $45,000
• Passion Pit: $135,000
Information from Robert Felder, the Homecoming general chairman of 
UF Homecoming and Gator Growl.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
You’re sitting in lecture, listening to your professor drone on 
about some topic you won’t even be tested on. You feel your 
eyelids getting heavier and heavier. Your head drops down. Re-ﬂ  exively, your body jerks back and your eyelids shoot open. “Everything OK?” your friend next to you whispers. “Barts and Royals,” you deliriously mumble back. “Huh? Whatever, dude,”  she says before glancing down at her notes. You lull slowly back to sleep, and as you’re drooling on your desk, you have a dream about…
Darts & Laurels
What a week it has been, dear readers. On campus, it’s 
Homecoming week! Today, there’s a parade in which students, staff, alumni, locals and people from all walks of life will be here in Gainesville to enjoy the ﬂ  oats, be merry and cheer on the Gators as they take on the University of Missouri tomorrow here in the Swamp. Pro tip: pick up a copy of this very news-paper from one of your favorite independent staff writers. We present a laurel to you, Gator Nation, for the love and sup-
port that this week brings out in all of us.
Speaking of love, it’s impossible to turn on the TV and ignore 
Donald Trump’s strange understanding of love. As disgusting as the “Access Hollywood” tape was, though, it gave some women the courage to go public with their claims that Trump sexually assaulted them. We gift these women a laurel, for their brav-
ery in the face of a man who brings fear to so many of us. We also lob a dart at all the people who come to Trump’s de-fense and excusing his vile rhetoric as “locker-room talk.” This disgusting, and quite simply, bad logic is why we have people like Brock Turner running around.
But today should not be a day ﬁ  lled with contempt and dis-
gust, so join us as we think about what makes today so spe-cial. Today marks a great day for the UF Student Body and 
Gainesville alike. Some of you will spend today ﬁ  nding relief from midterm exams, some of you will spend today with friends in the wake of the parade and preparing for tomorrow’s game and some of you will simply revel in the cool autumn air that has ﬁ  nally come about — albeit temporarily. Homecoming Fri-day has shaped up to be a day of relaxation, anticipation and communion, and for that we grant today a laurel. Enjoy the spirit-infused day with some spirit-infused beverages, if you’re in the spirit. Spirit. 
Meanwhile in Switzerland, some committee somewhere de-
cided to bestow upon American legend Bob Dylan the Nobel 
Prize in literature for “having created new poetic expres-
sions within the great American song tradition.” We here at the Alligator know there are two types of people in this world: people who appreciate and understand the genius of Dylan and people who ﬁ  nd amusement in kicking cute, defenseless pup-pies. So gather around, Gators, wherever you roam: You know damn well we’re giving this laurel to Grammy-winning, 
Golden-Globe-clinching, Academy-Award-receiving, Pu-litzer-achieving, Presidential-Medal-of-Freedom-earning and, now, Nobel Prize recipient Bob Dylan. This ultimately 
begs the question: How many roads must a man walk down before you can call him a man?
If you’re 35-year-old Fort Pierce, Florida, local Steve Enalien, 
the answer to that question is this: enough roads to get you as far away from us as possible. Apparently, Enalien was arrested a few weeks ago on a misdemeanor battery charge. Enalien walked into a Super 8 hotel and helped himself to some coffee and cookies. When the woman at the front desk said the cook-ies were only for guests, which he was not, he threw the cookies at her angrily. Well, Mr. Enalien, we throw a dart at you for  
trying to use cookies as a weapon. You cookie monster, you. Why we should resist the authoritarian temptation
On Tuesday morning, Gov. Paul LePage (R-
Maine), said in an interview, “we need a Donald Trump to show some authoritar-ian power in our country.” Not only is it unsettling for the governor of an American 
state to be endorsing an authoritarian form of gov-ernment, but it also reveals an underlying shift in the American public — a tilt toward authoritarian-ism.
I am not accusing Trump of trying to impose au-
thoritarian rule, but there is no doubt Trump’s anti-establishment and populist discourse resembles attitudes adopted by authoritarian political leaders. His demonization of outside groups, his delegitimization of the 
political establishment and the media, his threats to jail his 
political opponent, his hostile tirades — the list goes on.
However, the most worrisome development is the fact that 
a governor of a U.S. state would give legitimacy to authori-tarian rule. We’ve seen the tragic consequences of autocracy throughout Latin America, the Middle East and in its most ex-treme form, Europe between World Wars I and II. But it is not necessary to examine other countries in order to witness the terror that autocracy has caused. We need only to look at our 
own history.
In 1950, Sen. Joseph McCarthy’s demagoguery, personal 
attacks on politicians and unsubstantiated accusations of com-
munist subversion in the U.S. government spurred a vicious political movement known as McCarthyism. McCarthy ﬁ  rst became a media phenomenon by asserting that 205 commu-nists and homosexuals had inﬁ  ltrated the U.S. Department of State. When criticized by the media, he labeled them “dupes” or “communist sympathizers.”
McCarthy was supported by a broad group, the so-called 
“coalition of the aggrieved.” Common themes uniting follow-ers of McCarthyism were anti-internationalism and opposition to social welfare provisions resulting from the New Deal. Fol-lowers of the McCarthyist movement were opposed to public health services like vaccination and mental healthcare because they believed these issues were plots concocted by commu-nists to brainwash Americans.McCarthyism, indeed, created an authoritarian 
situation. The Senate Committee on Government Operations, of which McCarthy was chairman, was used as a tool to investigate alleged communists in the government. Fear of unemployment was used 
as a tool to muzzle dissent. The American Commu-
nist Party was banned, “communist” literature was burned and thousands lost their jobs. Fundamental rights were altered.
As in the 1950s, our susceptibility to demagogu-
ery is a result of deep, and often legitimate, discon-tent and fear. As the prominent political scientists and economist Francis Fukuyama has pointed out, 
the working class and sectors of the middle class are experi-
encing the effects of “economic stagnation and rise of inequal-
ity.” The working class feels abandoned by both parties, which have supported free-trade liberal policies that have affected working-class jobs. Thus, many people have a feeling that unknown forces are guiding politics and the economy, feed-ing into more paranoia, conspiracy theories and accusations of treason. However, an authoritarian approach will not magi-cally resolve these issues, and many of Trump’s protectionist policies could have devastating effects on a country so deeply 
interconnected in the global market. Instead, what is needed 
is a leader who can guide and reform the country within the bounds of existing democratic institutions and the Constitu-tion.
Defeating Donald Trump in the election will only be a 
short-term solution. It is economic and social reform that will prove to be the long-term solutions needed to prevent another Trump. Politicians must pay more attention to the sectors that have suffered from economic stagnation and lack of social 
mobility by including them in the public-debate and policy-
making processes.  
We must learn from our past and resist the authoritarian 
temptation. History does not look kindly on Joseph McCarthy, and it will certainly not look kindly on those who choose the authoritarian path. 
Julian Fleischman is a UF political science and telecommu-
nication senior. His column appears on Fridays.
Julian 
Fleischman
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
In the winter of 1980, Amber Wa-
ters went to her first concert to see 
The Eagles and Jimmy Buffett play at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Back then, she said, what is now 
an 88,000-seat stadium was noth-ing more that two sets of bleachers. Beyond UF’s campus, what are now construction zones and retail spaces were mostly undeveloped tracts of land.
“Newberry Road was the coun-
try,” said Waters, who owns a local salon in Gainesville. “As kids, we 
used to drive out to Newberry Road 
to feed horses through the fence. That field was where Oaks Mall currently is.”
Over the past 20 years, and no-
tably so in the past year, Gainesville has transformed from a small college town — just a stone’s throw away from rural north Florida — into a 
commercial and tech hub, with large 
buildings on the rise and national chains multiplying.
“As a Gainesvillian, you don’t rec-
ognize the place anymore,” said Peg-gy Macdonald, the executive director for the Matheson History Museum. “You don’t know where you are. It’s just one giant shopping-center park-
ing lot: a place to drive.”
•   •   •
Growing up in the ’90s, Macdon-
ald watched landmarks and local 
businesses around Gainesville change and grow.
One of the starkest differences is 
on West University Avenue, where various mixed-use buildings will soon replace local mainstays including The Jam, the Alligator and the Unified Training Center. 
Another is down Southwest 13th 
Street, where UF Health Shands Hos-pital seems to double its property ev-ery couple of years.
And at the intersection of Universi-
ty Avenue and 13th Street, a looming mixed-use building — The Standard — has dominated the city’s skyline, pledging to offer residents food, lodg-ing and shopping across from UF.But although retail space is theo-
retically good, and the already-estab-lished businesses along South Archer Road and Butler Plaza have propelled the local economy in recent years, 
Gainesville now looks like every other 
city in America, losing much of its small-town charm, she said.
The buildings running down West 
University Avenue were never much to look at, she said. But the series of strip malls starting at Midtown and extending toward downtown have al-ways thrived off student business and 
have been necessary to Gainesville’s 
local scenes and organizations.
“Gainesville is quirky, it’s small 
and it’s always been like that,” she said. “People want to preserve that.”
•   •   •
When Waters was a child, Butler 
Plaza was nothing more than a large field used by hobby pilots to land small planes.
For years after, she said, it was 
used by the city as a recreational soc-cer field.
The city was much more centrally 
located and quiet, especially because students weren’t allowed to bring their cars to campus, she said.
About 20 years ago, the area be-
gan to be renovated, and businesses began to open up in the historic build-
ings. Downtown’s persona as a ghost 
town started to change.
When she first opened her salon, 
The Tease, in the late ’90s, the down-town area was starting to be renovat-ed, she said. What is now the building that houses Dragonfly Sushi and Hear Again Records used to be a window-less government building, she said.
“Downtown used to be the place, 
when we were kids, where we would ride our bikes around,” she said.
•   •   •
The force behind much of Gaines-
ville’s recent expansion has been Oel-rich Construction.
Headed by Ivan Oelrich, the com-
pany has been a partner of the city’s 
Community Redevelopment Agency 
for more than 10 years, renovating current buildings and constructing new ones including Bo Diddley Com-munity Plaza and the double-helix bridge.
Oelrich said he felt humbled to be 
a part of the city’s transformation.
Many recently constructed build-
ings in town have been on the city’s planning board for more than 20 
years, he said. Some of these sites 
include Innovation Square, a bur-geoning tech hub where the Alachua General Hospital once stood, and But-ler Plaza North, a shopping plaza off Archer Road soon to boast several na-tional retail spaces.
Completed this summer, the child-
centric Depot Park is the most recent 
project, which 20 years ago was an 
urban brownfield filled with hazard-ous waste, he said.
As Gainesville becomes more glo-
balized, more out-of-town brands and businesses are choosing to invest in the city.
“To me it’s really neat to see that 
area, that used to be nothing, is now 
really something,” he said.
•   •   •
Twenty-three years ago, 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe was a 
UF graduate, and beer cost 5 cents.
At the time, Burrito Brothers 
Taco Co. was still a quintessential 
Gainesville establishment — that was 
not struggling to remain open — and the now-defunct CJ’s Oyster Bar and Seafood House would serve cheap brews.
Since then, he said, the town’s 
concrete landscape and attitude has expanded. And although change is often good, Gainesville’s changes 
haven’t been without some disap-
pointment.
This year, Leonardo’s Pizza By the 
Slice, a doughy mainstay for the past 40 years, announced it would close down, and Burrito Bros. announced construction of the looming The Stan-dard may lead to a similar fate.
“We must work to preserve our 
original character,” Poe said. “Our pristine, natural environment and our diverse views that make us uniquely Gainesville.”
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.orgA city within the Swamp: How Gainesville 
has grown to become a commercial hub
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
DIABOLO-ICAL TRICKS
Nathan Ma, a 19-year-old UF biology sophomore and 
member of the Chinese American Student Association, plays around with a diabolo on Thursday morning on the Plaza of the Americas during the Pop-Up Culture event. Ma said the aim of the juggling prop is to “try and explore how many tricks you can do” and “look as graceful as possible. ”
THEY ARE BRINGING 
MORE THAN 200  
POUNDS OF SUPPLIES 
AND ABOUT $1,000.
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Two UF students are leaving for 
Haiti today to help those in need. 
Amaury Sablon and Deshlee Ford 
made the decision to collect money 
and supplies for a three-day trip af-
ter they saw Hurricane Matthew’s 
devastation in Haiti. The hurricane destroyed homes and killed at least 473 people, according to the Associ-ated Press.
The two students plan to donate 
items they collected while also re-porting on what they experience, Sablon, 20, said. So far, they have collected more than 200 pounds of 
supplies, which came from friends, 
family members and UF Health Shands Hospital. They also collected about $1,000 to buy more items.
“I’m not going to stop doing work 
so I can be a journalist,” the UF tele-communication and Spanish junior said. “First, I’m a human. First, I’m going to help the people of Haiti.”
Sablon said they collected four 
bags of supplies full of water-purifi-cation pills, personal-hygiene items and clothes. 
In his apartment, piles of donated 
supplies sit in a stack. His eyes filled with tears as he stared at the boxes and bags of clothes, soap and dia-pers. 
“It’s so amazing and overwhelm-
ing,” he said. 
Sablon said he has never been to 
Haiti, but he spent part of his fresh-man year in its neighboring country, the Dominican Republic. 
There, he met Dr. Samuel Bas-
tien, who owns the nonprofit Health Education Project, an organization that focuses on medical needs in Hai-
ti. Sablon said he and Ford will work 
with Bastien to distribute supplies to help prevent the spread of diseases like cholera and malaria.
Originally, Sablon said he planned 
a Homecoming weekend hike in North Carolina. But after Bastien told him about the effects of Hurricane Matthew, he bought a plane ticket to 
Haiti. And then he called his mom.
When she heard, Yohanis Mat-
amoros, Sablon’s mother, gasped. 
But she understood that the trip was something he was going to do, even without her approval. 
“I have no worries,” she said as 
she began to cry. “I’m very proud of him. Way too proud of him.”
For Ford, 21, charity and photo-
journalism are one in the same. 
The UF journalism senior said 
she’s looking forward to bringing her photojournalism skills to Haiti, 
where she will be able to capture this 
moment in history. 
Ford said she wants to photo-
graph the scenes of disaster to help bring attention to Matthew’s after-math. 
The opportunity to stand in the 
middle of disaster will be life-chang-ing, she said, and she wants to find 
the beauty in it.
“Sometimes you have to wait for 
a moment,” she said. “When you are 
patient, you can capture something beautiful and take it home with you.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
UF students travel to Haiti to bring money, supplies
Catherine Dickson / Alligator
Amaury Sablon, a 20-year-old 
UF telecommunication and Spanish junior, stands in front of the money and supplies that were donated to bring to Haiti this weekend after Hurricane Matthew.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
HE HELPS LEAD THE 
CHEERLEADING TEAM 
THROUGH CHANTS.
By Elle Beecher 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Before every UF football game 
this Fall, Terry Peppers slips on a 
pair of orange-and-blue argyle pants.
“People know me for my pants,” 
the 20-year-old UF marketing ju-
nior said. “If you see them, you’ll know why. They’re over-the-top and 
funky, just like me.”
Peppers, who became the second 
UF student to take on the role as the “hype man” this Fall, has attended sporting events as part of the UF cheerleading team. Peppers said he’s excited to be back at the stadium for Saturday’s Homecoming game.  
“It’s getting 90,000 people on 
their feet and ready to get hype for Homecoming,” he said. 
At football games, he yells into a 
microphone and chants along with the cheerleading team to amplify the energy of the crowd.
After talking to the ﬁ  rst and for-
mer hype man, UF alumnus Bundu-
ki “Duke” Ramadan,  Peppers said 
he felt compelled to try out.
To prepare, Peppers practiced 
chants on residents who were walk-ing down the halls of Inﬁ  nity Hall, where he lives.
“Imagine a skinny kid on the ﬁ  rst 
ﬂ  oor of Inﬁ  nity Hall yelling, ‘Give me a G! Give me an A!’ at 1 in the 
morning,” Peppers said. 
Peppers said his hours of practice 
paid off when he got the call that he 
would be the next hype man. 
On Sept. 3, he walked out onto 
the ﬁ  eld at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, wearing the orange-and-blue pants, as UF took on the University of Mas-sachusetts. The view, he said, was 
beautiful. “You can see everyone’s face in 
a sea of blue and orange,” he said. 
“There’s so, so much energy and ex-citement there.”
The hype man guides the energy 
of the crowd, said Joshua Tylerbest, a fourth-year member of the cheer-leading team.
Tylerbest, who cheered in games 
before the hype man position was created in Fall 2014, said having Pep-pers on the ﬁ  eld makes a difference.
“It gets really loud in the Swamp, 
which is awesome, but it’s also real-ly hard to hear the cheerleaders,” the 21-year-old UF information systems senior said. “Terry is able to grab the crowd’s attention and get everyone 
involved in what we’re doing.” 
Max Barry, one of the captains of 
the cheerleading team, said the hype 
man helps the team lead the crowds through chants. 
“We didn’t know what we were 
missing until we had the hype man,” the 21-year-old UF business manage-ment senior said. “It’s exciting to try 
new things and to use Terry to do 
things differently than our team has done them before.”
When Peppers goes home at the 
end of each gameday, he said he passes out for hours. 
“You can ﬁ  nd me sprawled out 
on the ﬂ  oor sleeping,” Peppers said. But when he gets up, he’s ready to 
do it again. Homecoming Hype: UF’s new ‘hype man’ 
By Robyn Wilbar
Alligator Contributing Writer
Against the light-green walls of 
a room on the fourth ﬂ  oor of UF 
Health Shands Children’s Hospital, a 9-year-old boy clenched his ﬁ  st as a nurse hooked an IV into his arm 
Tuesday.
For Will Barkoskie and his moth-
er, Blake Barkoskie, 38, the trips 
from Jacksonville, as well as the treatments, are becoming a weekly routine.
“Haven’t I always been brave 
when I get poked?” Will asked his mother Tuesday, as the nurse pre-
pared a new 1,400-milliliter infu-
sion to treat his Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The genetic disorder is characterized by progressive muscle degeneration.
On Oct. 5, Will became the ﬁ  rst 
and only person in the U.S. to start the ﬁ  rst commercially available therapy, called Exondys 51, to treat 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, 
wrote Dr. Barry Byrne, a professor of molecular genetics at UF’s College of Medicine, in an email.
Doctors and Will’s mother hope 
the therapy, approved Sept. 19 by the Food and Drug Administration, improves his quality of life. 
The diagnosis came when Will 
was 2 years old. As a baby, he didn’t crawl. When he did walk, he strug-gled with balance and often fell. His parents quickly realized something was wrong. 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is 
caused by an absence or deﬁ  ciency of dystrophin — a protein responsi-ble for stabilizing the cell membrane, — in skeletal muscle, Byrne said. 
Symptoms of the condition appear 
in early childhood and usually lead to severe disability in teenage years and death by the mid- to late-20s.
Over the past seven years, Blake 
Barkoskie said her son has increas-ingly struggled. He started this past school year unable to write.
“He gets tired now. Days are lon-
ger and harder for him,” she said.
On Sept. 19, Barkoskie learned 
her son was among the 13 percent of those with Duchenne muscular dys-trophy worldwide who could beneﬁ  t from the therapy. It gave her hope. “I’ll never forget that day, be-
cause it was my husband’s birthday and was the best birthday gift ever,” 
she said. 
The new treatment, made up of  
hourlong weekly infusions, costs 
about $600,000 for Shands to ad-minister. Doctors hope the treatment will enable the muscle cells in Will’s body to make dystrophin, Byrne said.
For Barkoskie, she hopes the 
treatment will improve her son’s en-ergy levels. 
“I hope through this treatment 
that Will will live a longer, happier life and be able to be as independent as he can,” she said. 
UF Shands ﬁ  rst hospital to oﬀ  er 
therapy for rare genetic disorder
Robyn Wilbar / Courtesy to the Alligator
A UF Health Shands Hospital nurse tends to 9-year-old Will 
Barkoskie’s IV while Dr. Barry Byrne, a UF College of Medicine professor, looks on. Diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Barkoskie is receiving groundbreaking treatment at Shands.
Peppers
10   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
By Emma Green
Alligator Contributing Writer
To protest a 515-mile natural-gas pipeline 
set to cut through Florida, a St. Petersburg 
woman will dance across the state, shim-mying through Alachua County on her way southbound.
A devout believer in Mother Nature, 
32-year-old KC Cavanaugh considers herself to be a protector of the water, a natural re-source she thinks the Sabal Trail Transmis-sion pipeline may contaminate while it cuts through Alabama, Georgia and Florida, in-cluding tracts of land near Gainesville.
“I’m hoping that just by bringing aware-
ness… it will help in some way,” she said
She isn’t alone.In recent months, hundreds of protesters 
across Florida — including in Gainesville — have decided to rail against the pipeline, a project put into motion by Florida Power and Light that will pump 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas every day.
Residents have organized rallies, written 
state legislators and hosted town hall meet-
ings opposing the pipeline, scheduled to be 
operational by mid-2017.
“It’s great to have public participation,” 
said Merrillee Malwitz-Jipson, an organizing representative of the Sierra Club of Florida. “You can’t do it with just 10 people.”
•   •   •
Less than a month ago, when Christine 
DeVore Santilo learned her neighbor’s land would be seized for pipeline construction, she felt like her land was being taken, too.
Santilo, 52, said she had hoped to re-
ﬁ  nance her house in Williston Highlands, Florida, but she is afraid property values in her area will plummet due to the construc-tion and the possible environmental side ef-fects that come with it.
Although she is still waiting on a notice 
or town-hall meeting informing her when construction will start, she said she heard construction has already begun in the city 
of Live Oak, about an hour from Gainesville.
“It’s very unsettling, because I have no 
idea what’s going on with it,” the UF radia-
tion oncology researcher said.
About three or four years ago, Santilo’s 
husband, Francis, 51, was living alone on the property and confronted pipeline surveyors in his yard.
Little did the survey crew know, they 
were standing on one of his cats.
One of the concerns Francis Santilo had 
for the pipeline going through his land was his pet cemetery, where he buried several Pipe Dreams: Floridians ﬁ  ght against Sabal Trail pipeline
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Coral MacDonald, a 52-year-old gardener, holds a “Stop the Pipeline” sign in the rain 
during the Sabal Trail pipeline protest at the intersection of University Avenue and Main Street downtown on Sept. 29.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
of his pet cats and dogs when they 
died.
Although his plot was spared, 
he said the pipeline’s threat to the surrounding water and air remains 
a concern.
Living in a rural part of Alachua 
County, the Santilos get water from 
a well. After hearing reports of pipe-lines in the U.S. bursting, Francis Santilo said he is worried about Sa-bal Trail leaking gas into Florida’s aquifer and affecting his drinking water, despite statements from the 
company and the Florida Depart-
ment of Environmental Protection saying the project would be safe. He said he is also concerned he’ll soon be sitting on a piece of dead ground no one would be willing to buy.Sabal Trail began negotiating for 
land in September 2014, and as of March, it had ﬁ  led for eminent do-main on 160 properties in Alabama, Georgia and Florida, according to an 
Orlando Sentinel article.
While the land would typically 
return to the landowners after con-
struction, some private property can be permanently seized through emi-nent domain — the government’s right to take land for public interest — when property owners cannot reach an agreement with pipeline 
ofﬁ  cials, according to Sabal Trail 
spokeswoman Andrea Grover.
“The little guy always pays,” 
Francis Santilo said.
•   •   •Many environmentalists argue 
the land taken usually becomes ir-reparably damaged. The pipeline’s proposed path runs through sink-hole-prone areas, people’s homes 
and state parks, causing concern for 
the safety of residents in those areas.
“Even in the unlikely event that 
a sinkhole opens beneath the pipe-line, the pipeline can safely span dis-tances exceeding 100 feet,” Grover said, adding that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission found it un-likely that the pipeline would impact 
Florida’s water.
Despite the reassurance, Florid-
ians continue to express concerns 
with the pipeline possibly leaking and releasing chemicals into the drinking water supply.“We have fought for generations 
against pipelines in the water sup-ply. We have gone to blows over it,” Malwitz-Jipson said.
•   •   •
Even though many protesters ac-
knowledge their voices may not be enough to stop a multimillion-dollar company’s vision, they feel it is their responsibility to spread the word to 
as many people as possible.
But in a state where natural gas 
dominates electricity production, 
according to UF’s Florida Energy website, some acknowledge there is little that can be done to halt con-struction.
Considering accusations that the 
pipeline would threaten local envi-ronments, Grover said natural-gas pipelines are among the safest forms of safety operations.
“Our safety programs are de-
signed to prevent pipeline failures, detect anomalies, perform repairs and often exceed regulatory require-ments,” she said.
•   •   •
At a recent rally in Gainesville, 
Mike Roth and a few others sang “This Land is Your Land,” a song that represents their struggle.
However bleak the chances of 
stopping Sabal Trail are, banding together is what his conscience tells him to do.
“This is just our desperate at-
tempt,” he said.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-14-16-12-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
PUBLIC AUCTION – ONSITE & ONLINE
Soho Design Operating Co. LLC. Tues, October 18 at 11:00am3040 North 29th Ave. Hollywood, FL 33020Brand New High-End Designer Furniture (in-cluding Tui Lifestyle) 1 Day Only Sale!Leather Sofa Sets, Bedroom Furniture, Mattresses, Wall Décor & Artwork, Accessories, Dishware, Chandeliers, Rugs, Pallet Racking, Forklift, Warehouse Items, Computers, Copiers & Much More!Name Your Price!Preview: Day of Sale, 9am – 11amAssignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case No: CACE-16-016830Catalog and photos available at
www.moeckerauctions.com
15% - 18% BP (800) 840-BIDSAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     10-14-1-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
STAINLESS STEEL KEGERATOR
Like new condition, complete with manual, 
gas tank & gauges. $350 firm cash. Call 352-
591-2323    10-19-16-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 SubleaseFRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13 
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
02 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
03 Kia Spectra $1999
03 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not. - Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647          10-14-1-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYNow you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
PT cleaner needed ASAP for homes, apart-ments, & offices. Weekly pay/8.50 hr; Must have/use own transportation. If interested please call 352-214-0868; gas paid for driving to numerous places in a shift....10-18-5-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-18-16-5-14P/T front desk receptionist for dental office 
in Haile Plantation in Gainesville. Afternoon 
and evening hours. $12-16 per hour. Send 
CV to gdentaljob@gmail.com. No phone 
calls please.              10-18-16-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
Entry LevelHeavy Equipment Operator Career!Get Trained –Get Certified-Get Hired! Bulldozers, Backhoes and ExcavatorsImmediate, Lifetime Job Placement,VA Benefits1-866-362-6497            10-14-1-15
FLIGHT SERVICE DISPATCHER Get FAA approved training in weeks,not yearsTo become a certified aircraft dispatcherJOB PLACEMENT ASSISTANCECall AIM 888-242-2649       10-14-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Male Enhancement Medical PumpGain 1-3 Inches Permanently!FDA Licensed for ED.30-Day Risk Free Trial.Free Brochure: Call (619) 294-7777www.DrJoelKaplan.com         10-14-1-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call now 1-800-224-0305         10-14-1-16
ACROSS
1 Talked into, with
“on”
5 Calyx part
10 Typical artist’s
apartment
14 Samoan capital
15 Amtrak option
16 Cabinet dept.
formed under
Carter
17 Doughnut order
from a king?
19 Fifty percent up
front?
20 Recorded21 GPS info23 Pisa possessive24 Recording
device
25 Musicians given
to tippling?
28 Writer LeShan29 Is next to31 Sergeant Bilko,
to friends
32 Tapestry 
thread
33 Saturn models34 Set of data 
within anatmospheric
analysis?
40 Quarterback
Tony
41 Swamplike42 Protection
against Mr.
Decay Germ, inold ads
44 Continued
violently
45 MDX ÷ X48 Occupants of a
well-insulatednest?
50 One of the Coen
brothers
52 “10538 Overture”
gp.
53 Ocean bird54 Gets rid of55 M’s favorite
agent
57 How perfume is
sold ... and thispuzzle’s title
60 Commercial
exchange fee
61 Ames native62 Future ENT’s
exam
63 “You’ve Got Mail”
co-star
64 Grabs65 Turtles,
sometimesDOWN
1 Biblical
seductress
2 Offered a view3 Shoeless Joe
Jackson
portrayer in “Field
of Dreams”
4 Mother of Perseus5 Marquis de __6 Prefix with
friendly
7 Product with a
Simpsons set
8 Last Olds models
9 Andy Panda
creator
10 Took charge
11 Two-run homer
situation
12 Like “executrix,”
e.g.
13 Old TV parts18 Urban __22 “Beauty is bought
by judgement ofthe __”:Shakespeare
25 Fit and muscular
26 Certain footrest
27 Verve
30 Quilting party34 Math branch
concerned withsurfaces
35 Rain forest region36 Beyond slender37 Former PBS
“Mystery!” host
38 Extractable
natural resource
39 Louisiana genre
featuring theaccordion
40 Grain-based treat43 “Understood,
Cap’n”
44 His stories
inspired “Guysand Dolls”45 Luck46 Pet that needs a
sitter?
47 Many Alaska
maps
49 “__ non sufficit”:
the world is notenough
51 Outdo
54 Beltway VIPs
56 Put on
58 BOAC competitor
59 Storied cauldron
stirrer
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/14/1610/14/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 14, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comHOMECOMING 
MESSAGES
To My Lovely Wife, Mary J.:
Happy Homecoming 2016!
Here’s to new memories at our
old favorites - Copper Monkey, 
Swamp, Holiday Inn/Paisano’s... 
Let the Gator Growl! 
Love you, John J. (Cocoa Beach)
∙∙∙FALL 2016
To The Girl With The Beautiful Blue 
Eyes:
Gator Growl and Homecoming is 
upon us once again, but unfortu -
nately, we will not be in Gainesville 
this year.  Little Blue Eyes will not be 
with us either.
Although Homecoming is a renewal 
of us, it will have to wait til next 
year.  The three of us will be together 
in Jacksonville for UF-UGA.
 We  have experienced so much 
during the 36 years since our first 
Homecoming, but the one constant 
has been my love for you and our 
love for Little Blue Eyes.  We are so 
proud of her, even as she lives in that 
state to the north.
Next year, in Gainesville!
ILY,
Liarface12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Homecoming Sidewalk Sale!
Save on shoes, shorts, tees, flip flops & 
more! 20-50% OFF. Friday, Saturday & 
Sunday. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 1 mile N on 
13th St. 352-372-7836
10-14-16-2-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want 
to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SALVATION VS JELLY BEANS & DONUTS@www.changewomen.orgHow to change a woman?@changewomen.orgRomans, 13; 1-8                        10-14-1-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
1
1312111098765432
For information on advertising in the Worship Guide, 
contact Alligator Advertising 352-376-4482
Chapel of the 
Incarnation
The EpiscoGators Welcome You!
Sunday Worship: 5:30pm 
followed by a free home cooked 
meal for students
1522 W University Ave
across the street from 
Library WestEpiscopal
Gainesville 
Quaker Meeting
Are you searching for a 
Spiritual Community?
We are a community 
dedicated to peace, integrity, 
equality, social justice, and 
care of the earth.
Join with friends in the 
mystic tradition of waiting 
upon the Divine.
11 a.m. Sundays
Followed by food and 
fellowship
www.gainesvillequakers.orgQuaker
St. Augustine Church & 
Catholic Student Center
Mass: Sat. 5:30pm, Sun. 
9am, 11:30, 1:30 (espanol), 
5:30, 7:30
M-F 12& 5:30 pm.  
Get Involved!
www.catholicgators.orgCatholicFaith Presbyterian 
Church (PCA)
Come join us! 
Sundays at 10am
5196 NW 39th Ave
352-377-5482
faithgainesville.org
faith@faithgainesville.org
Trinity United Methodist
Contemporary: Wednesday, 6:35p
Coffee Talk for college, 7:30p
Sunday Worship: 8:15, 9:40, 11a 
376-6615,TrinityGNV .orgMethodist
First Presbyterian 
Church of Gainesville
Sunday Worship
8:30 and 10:55 am
Join us for lunch after
 Sunday worship
College Fellowship
Wednesday 7:30 pm
Fellowship, worship, 
Bible study and recreation
Contact Scott Stuart at 
college@1stpc.orgPresbyterian
University City Church
of Christ
Gators for Christ campus 
ministry college group meets 
at University City Church 
on Sundays at 9am and 
Wednesdays at 7pm
Practical application from God’s 
word, plus service projects, large 
group events, free meals and 
much more...
(directions and events calendar 
at www.gatorsforchrist.org)
For rides, please call:
352-514-8261Non-Denominational
Campus Church
of Christ
Campus Church!
Sunday worship 10:30 a 
+ Wed 7p
Free student lunch 1+3 Sunday
Want to get involved in music 
ministry/college group?
Contact: rom116steven@gmail
352-501-7253
across from UF law school!
Gainesville Vineyard
Jesus-centered faith. Authentic 
community. Good coffee. Sleep 
in on Sunday! Our service meets 
@ 4pm. 3536 NW 8th Ave (just 
2 miles from campus) College 
group meets twice monthly 
downtown @7:30
371-0838
www.gainesvillevineyard.org
Vida Springs Church
A Church for students
Modern Real Relevant Truth
Sunday Service 10:30 am
Wyndham Garden Hotel
2900 SW 13th St. Near UF
www.VidaSpringsChurch.org
United Church 
of Gainesville
Whoever you are, wherever you 
are on life’s journey you are 
welcome here. 
Open and affirming to LGBTQ!
Services Sun 9:15 and 11:15
Young Adult Lunuch 
2 Sundays/month @ 12:30
1624 NW 5th Avenue
www.ucgainesville.org 378-3500Church of ChristUnited
Chabad Lubavitch 
Jewish Student Center
Your home away from home
Friday Night Live!
Services & Shabbat Dinner.
7:30pm Spring/Fall,
8:30pm Summer
352-336-5877
2021 NW 5th Ave
(5 blocks north of the stadium)
www.JewishGator.comJewish18 Personals 20 Events/Notices 23 Rides 24 Pets
REDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTES
preserve water
TICK.TOCK.
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Florida soccer player named to U-20 National T eam
Florida women's soccer player Parker Roberts was named to the U.S. Soccer 
National team roster for the 2016 FIFA Under-20 World Cup, national team 
coach Michelle French announced Thursday. The U-20 World Cup begins Nov. 13 and will be held in Papua New Guinea.Check out our breakdown of 
four Florida defensive linemen, including redshirt junior Caleb Brantley, on pg. 16.By Skyler Lebron
Sports Writer
About four times a week, 
Florida cross country coach Paul Spangler would meet his workout partner in the weight room around lunch time.
He would get demolished.“She’d crush me on the bike, 
crush me on the StairMaster, crush me on the abs,” coach Spangler said.
She was redshirt sophomore 
Lauren Perry.
A young cross country and track athlete at Florida, Perry was tested 
at an early age. She was diagnosed 
with both bilateral compartment 
syndrome and rheumatoid arthri-tis, setbacks that kept her out of the majority of her collegiate races two years ago.
Through hours of training and 
rehabilitation, medical procedures and self-determination, Perry fought to return to the field.
The proof is in the weight Span-
gler lost at the hands of Perry and their lunchtime workout routines.
“I’m probably around 10 
pounds lighter because of it,” Spangler said.
Perry fought through the limita-
tions her own body presented and attacked them head on.
“Each day brings new challeng-
es,” Perry said. “You attack your obstacles, you get through them.”
•   •   •
When Perry first got to the Uni-
versity of Florida, running was a large part of her life.
While attending high school in 
Richland, Washington, she had an extremely successful career, earn-ing eight titles during her senior outdoor season alone.
Moving onto college competi-
tion was supposed to be an ex-citing challenge. However, the pressure of higher-level competi-tion wasn't consuming Perry, but rather her own body’s limitations.
She visited an orthopedic sur-
geon, who told her that she had bilateral compartment syndrome, a painful condition that cut off the supply of nutrients and oxy-gen from reaching her legs.  Perry needed to have surgery on both of her legs and missed the 2014-15 cross country and indoor track seasons.  
She recovered before the out-
door track season began, though, and was able to race during the 2015 outdoor season, even making it to the SEC Championships.
But after another competition 
at U.S. junior nationals, something wasn’t right.
Perry hurt everywhere. Her en-
tire body ached when she woke up on multiple occasions.  
“I felt like I’d been hit by a 
truck every morning,” Perry said. 
After all the time she had to 
take off to recover from her sur-geries, Perry was back to where she started. She visited doctors, who told her they didn’t know what was going on. She continued constant blood testing. She felt as though she had to go in twice a week just to get it drawn.
Eventually, the doctors led her 
to a rheumatologist, who gave her disappointing news: Perry was di-agnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, a painful disorder that inflames the joints in the hands and feet. It was a bizarre diagnosis for Perry, who was just 18. Rheumatoid ar-thritis usually begins after a per-son is 40-years old, according to medical research group the Mayo Clinic. 
Perry sat out the entire season 
while she took medication that she hoped would halt the progress of the disease. It wasn’t working.
Perry said the doctors increased 
dosages only for the problem to continue.  
Didn’t it get exhausting to con-
tinuously fight? To overcome an obstacle, just to have an another 
one take its place?
“It could be worse,” Perry said, 
her commitment to getting on the 
field never dwindling.
Perry’s mother, a rheuma-
tologist, knew the severity of 
her condition. But she also knew 
the importance of running in her daughter’s life. So she told her to keep pushing.
“I think if I had told them I 
wanted to call it quits, they prob-ably would’ve encouraged me to give it more time,” Perry said.
Finally, the medication started 
to work. After nearly four years 
since she had raced in a cross 
country meet, she was cleared to practice for her return.
Training began in June as Per-
ry eased her way into a normal schedule. That’s when Perry and coach Spangler started to exercise together.
“I think it was really good for 
both of us,” Perry said.
The time allowed for both of 
them to stay in shape and also de-velop an athlete-coach bond that can be lost as an intense season flies by.
While much of her success 
came from her own will to con-tinue on, Perry said that others played just as big of a role: her parents, coaches, teammates and BATTLING BACK: Perry fights through health issues to run
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators women’s 
basketball team’s recruiting class has quickly settled in, rapidly developing a rapport with team-mates and coaches alike.
“They’ve all made their even 
unique impressions so far, and all of those have been positives,” head coach Amanda Butler said. “I think their teammates have ac-cepted them with open arms and really appreciate the coachable, teachable spirit and eagerness that they all possess.”
Leaving that type of mark with-
in months of joining a college bas-ketball program is no small feat, regardless of talent.
But their skill eased the pro-
cess.
Each familiar with the guard 
position, Florida’s five newest fac-es — freshmen Delicia Washing-ton, Elif Portakal, Sydney Searcy and Sydney Morang, and junior transfer Funda Nakkasoglu — have drawn glowing praise from Butler.
Bringing a mixture of size, scor-
ing, ball handling and aggression, the quintet figures to replenish a depth chart that lost six guards to either graduation, transfer or in-jury.
And with the work ethic to 
match, the newcomers are rearing to make an instant impact.
“(Playing for the) national team 
was (more) different than any-thing, because you’re representing your country,” said Portakal, a na-tive of Istanbul, Turkey. “You’re not just playing for yourself. It’s for your team, your family, every-one in Turkey. That helped a lot.”
Leaving that familiarity behind, 
though, could have stunted the process.
Three of the five freshmen didn’t grow up in the state of Flor-ida. Two of them — Portakal and Nakkasoglu — are international prospects, and while the latter spent the last two seasons running the point for Utah State, the for-mer is experiencing her first taste of American culture, both on the court and off.
Luckily, their teammates are 
there to help.
Women’s basketball team's recruits fitting in early on  
SEE WHOOPS,  PAGE 19Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Lauren Perry runs during the 2016 Mountain Dew Gator Invitational — her second race of the season. "I hope people who know me and see what I've gone through will use it as motivation, " Perry said.
SEE PERRY,  PAGE 1716   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
A FEW GOOD LINEMEN
Caleb Brantley
Brantley was a four-star recruit in Flori-
da’s 2013 recruiting class.
Three years later, the redshirt junior is 
projected as a first-round NFL Draft pick.
But if you look at his stat sheet, he isn’t 
playing like one.
Brantley averages just 1.6 tackles per 
game this season, tied for 13th on the team.
He has just eight total tackles this year, 
one sack and two tackles for loss. 
After the same amount of games last 
year, former Florida defensive lineman and 
current Chicago Bear Jonathan Bullard had 4.5 sacks, 9.5 tackles for loss and 26 total 
tackles.
Defensive coordinator Geoff Collins said 
before the season began that Brantley can be 
the most dominant defensive lineman in the country, and his peers along the line agree.
But with just six games remaining on UF’s 
schedule, time is running out for Brantley to leave his mark on the program.
BEAR ATTACK
What’s your best Caleb Brantley story?Brantley’s high school coach Al Smith: 
“My offensive line and defensive line coach took him hunting, him and a couple other linemen. They were driving the truck in 
the woods, and one of the coaches decided 
to scare him and tell him there was a bear or something in the woods. And then they cut the truck off and acted like the truck had stalled out, and the lights had went off. And the coaches were telling the kids, ‘hey, there’s a bear in the woods.’ There were kids on the back of the truck, and they didn’t have any guns. That was with the 
coaches in the front of the pickup truck. So 
they were back there laying down, hoping that the bear wouldn’t see them or smell them. And one of the coaches had crept out of the window and rocked us out of the truck like he was the bear. Caleb yelled and hollered and jumped on top of the cab of the truck and tried to stand on top of the truck trying to get away from the bear.”
- Ian Cohen
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgJordan Sherit
Injuries hindered Sherit’s ability to pro-
duce during his first three seasons with the Gators. A torn ACL late in his senior year of high school delayed his timetable for getting on the field at UF. Another injury in 2014 
kept him on the sidelines for three of Flor-
ida’s final four games before he showed a glimpse of his talent in 2015. 
And this year, almost like clockwork, the 
injury bug bit him again. Sherit had his knee scoped last week and will be out for the im-mediate future, including Saturday’s home-coming game against Missouri.
Before the injury, Sherit was on the verge 
of a breakout season. 
The redshirt junior ranks second on the 
team with a career-high three sacks and fourth with 20 tackles, eight fewer than his total heading into the season.
When Sherit is on the field, he’s disrup-
tive. He just needs to find a way to stay healthy. 
COACHES’ PRAISE
UF defensive line coach Chris Rumph: 
“I tell all the younger guys, all the defensive ends, I say, ‘If you want to see how it’s done, if you want to become really good, then study Jordan Sherit.’ He’s that guy. You look 
at him, he’s nothing flashy. His name doesn’t 
come up when you talk about the guys, the cover of the magazines, the cover out here. This guy just continues to make plays and just go about it, go to work. He’s a typical blue-collar guy and I love him to death.” 
Defensive Coordinator Geoff Collins: 
“Jordan is a guy that knows the defense in-side and out. He can basically play any posi-
tion that we need across the front four. Prob-
ably if we need him to play linebacker, he can do that.” 
Head coach Jim McElwain: “Jordan has 
obviously played a ton but had that injury bug kind of hit him a couple times. His sta-bility, his knowledge of the game and what we expect to be done through the discipline of his play is outstanding.”
- Jordan McPherson
@J_McPherson1126
jmcpherson@alligator.orgJabari Zuniga
When Zuniga arrived at UF, his body 
— a year younger than most true fresh-men — wasn’t ready for college football. So he sat out. 
Similarly, his high school football ca-
reer also started out without much fan-fare. 
When approached by Georgia’s Spray-
berry High School coach William Shackel-ford as a freshman, Zuniga wasn’t inter-ested in playing football. 
He wanted to play basketball instead. After finding his way to UF and sitting 
out his first year, Zuniga’s five sacks so 
far this season are a team-best and tie him 
for third in the Southeastern Conference. 
Shackelford said he always knew Zuni-
ga was destined for such numbers, adding that his performance at Florida was not unforeseen. 
“I’m proud,” he said. “I’m not surprised.” 
QUOTABLE
Defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson: “Jabari, he’s the silent assassin. He’s that 
guy, he’s not going to say too much. He ain’t gonna say nothin’ at all. He’s just going to walk around like ‘What’s up, bro?’ *turns 
head* ‘What’s up?’ give you a little what’s 
up and go on about his business. He’s a qui-et killer, but once he gets on that field, it’s over. I like that guy to break out this year.”
Coach Jim McElwain: “He’s kind of grown into an actual man.”Defensive line coach Chris Rumph:“If you’ve ever seen this guy with his 
shirt off, I have a rule: He cannot take his 
shirt off in front of my wife. I mean this guy 
is yoked up. My wife’s around, his shirt is on.”
High school coach William Shackel-
ford: 
“If he would’ve had one more year, he 
could’ve been one of the top kids in the United States. He really had that kind of po-tential.”
- Ethan Bauer
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgCeCe Jefferson 
Jefferson has been used primarily as a 
defensive tackle behind the unit’s leader, junior Caleb Brantley.
 He has been relatively quiet playing in-
side, racking up four tackles through UF’s 
first four games. 
But against Vanderbilt, he broke out 
when he moved outside. 
The Glen St. Mary native tallied three 
tackles and added three run stops on 22 
run attempts, according to Pro Football Focus. 
And while it doesn’t appear in the box 
score, he put pressure on Commodores 
quarterback Kyle Shurmur in the 13-6 win. 
The 6-foot-1, 261-pounder slid over and 
manned defensive end in Nashville to fill 
the hole left by Jordan Sherit, who was sidelined with a leg injury. 
And with Sherit hurt and nose tackle 
Joey Ivie out indefinitely with a hand in-jury, Florida will look to Jefferson even more.
QUICK FACTS
If you ask Jim McElwain, CeCe Jeffer-
son’s name isn’t CeCe. It’s Carl. McElwain used Jefferson’s alias throughout press confer-ences and after games this year, but none was more apparent than after the Vanderbilt game. 
“I wish we had more Carls because Carl enjoys 
it,” McElwain said. “He loves being a Gator and he’s proud to be a Gator and he plays with such energy and has so much fun doing it and he’s like that at practice. We’ve got a lot of guys who can take a lesson or two from Carl.”
A highly recruited prospect in high 
school, Jefferson has always had natural gifts on the field. That goes back to his very first 
varsity football game with Baker County High 
against Westminster in Carrolton, Georgia. On his first snap as a freshman, Jefferson darted around the edge and lit up the Westminster quarterback as he released the ball. “The quar-terback pretty much did a 360 flip,” then Bak-er County coach Ryan Sulkowski said. From that point on, Sulkowski said he knew Jeffer-son was special.
- Patrick Pinak
@Pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   17
Costume SalePersonaCostume Sale
352-372-0455
Shop Local · 201 SE 2nd Pl 
the team doctors.
“You want to get better not just 
for yourself,” she said, “but for 
them and their time and efforts.”
•   •   •
Nearly three months later, the 
ﬁ  rst meet of the year was fast ap-proaching. 
Florida’s runners prepared 
for the Covered Bridge Open in Boone, North Carolina on Sept. 2. However, Perry had yet another issue.
She was dealing with strep 
throat and had been for the past two months. Her arthritis medica-tion weakened her immune sys-tem, preventing a quick recovery.
But with all of the issues she 
had already been through just to 
get back to this moment, some-
thing like strep throat wasn’t going 
to stop her.
Not only did she ﬁ  nish the race, 
but she performed above expecta-
tions.
After 18 minutes and 49.79 sec-
onds, Perry rushed through the 
ﬁ  nish line. She ﬁ  nished ninth out of 97 runners in her ﬁ  rst collegiate 
cross country race.
And the success hasn’t slowed 
down.
In the Gator Invitational on 
Sept. 24, Perry ﬁ  nished sixth out 
of 123 Division I runners, helping her team to another ﬁ  rst-place ﬁ  n-ish.In the most competitive meet 
yet, the Paul Short Run, Perry ﬁ  n-ished 48th out of 405 total ﬁ  nish-ers.
“She’s just a huge motivation,” 
teammate Maddox Patterson said. “The fact that she can do that … it’s just super motivating for all of 
us.”
•   •   •
Lauren Perry doesn’t want to 
be remembered for the constant 
obstacles that blocked her path.
She wants to be an example to 
others, showcasing that it is pos-sible to ﬁ  ght and succeed through even life’s biggest misfortunes.
“There’s a lot of crappy things 
about having rheumatoid arthritis, but there’s nothing I can do about it,” she said. “Just ﬁ  nd and cele-brate the good things in life.”
Through a surgery that halted 
her freshman debut, a disease that will affect her for the rest of her life and even her chronic strep throat, Perry decided that she wouldn’t let the odds determine her career. 
Now, as the Gators prepare for 
the NCAA Pre-Nationals on Sat-urday, Perry will get the chance to compete in a race that wasn’t guaranteed less than one year ago.
“I hope people who know me 
and see what I’ve gone through will use it as motivation,” Perry said. “There is a light at the end of the tunnel.”
@SkylerLebron
Slebron@alligator.org PERRY,  from pg. 15UF next competes at NCAAs
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Lauren Perry (far right) and her teammates pose for photographs after winning the 2016 Mountain Dew Invitational. 
18   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
Auto Glass Tint
125 NE 23 Ave · 352-299-3214Cars ................. $130
Trucks ................ $85
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer 
With ﬁ  ve Fall tournaments un-
der its belt, the Florida men’s ten-
nis team is ready to work on its game during its week off.
The team just returned from two 
tournaments, with some players competing at the ITA All-American Championship and others playing in the Georgia Tech Invitational.
While coach Bryan Shelton be-
lieves no one really brought their best performance, many of the men still stood out this weekend.
One was Alfredo Perez.The sophomore from Cuba 
reached the semiﬁ  nals in the sin-gles main draw of the ITA champi-
onships in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  
“I think he’s kind of proved to 
himself that he can be a force this 
year for the Gators,” Shelton said.
What makes Perez so special, 
according to Shelton, is his sheer talent as a competitor.
“His focus and everything 
seems to tighten up when he com-
petes, and he’s able to raise his 
level when it’s needed,” Shelton said. “Obviously he’s a talented young man, but to compete the way he does is pretty special.”Now that the team is back and 
has a 10-day break from competi-tion, the men are able to focus on 
speciﬁ  c aspects of the game before 
travelling to Tallahassee to play in the USTA/ITA Regional Champi-onships.  
While Shelton says the team 
will practice serving, returning of serves, transition work, ap-proaches and volleys, improving their doubles play will also be key 
focus.
“It’s something that we really 
just haven’t devoted enough time 
to,” Shelton said. 
“We are putting more empha-sis on our doubles play and really trying to look at some different doubles combinations within our 
team.”
Shelton also wants his players 
to work on balancing in the way 
they  compete. 
Shelton said his ultimate goal is 
for his players to play aggressively without making unforced errors.
“We want to be really clear 
with our identity, each guy clear 
with his identity as he’s playing 
and what he needs to do to be suc-cessful,” Shelton said.
He hopes that clarity in identity 
will continue to develop in the ﬁ  -nal weeks of the preseason, before they go out to the regional cham-pionships.
“I think Alfredo doing so well 
gave the whole team a little bit of a lift to know that at our top end, we are pretty darn good,” Shelton said.
 “So I think we just got to ﬁ  ll in 
the rest. But I think our guys will be hungry and looking forward to the next tournament at Talla-
hassee and in the meantime, just 
work hard every single day to get better.”
@camundson_
camundson@alligator.org 
 Florida men’s tennis hoping to improve during breakFRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   19
By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
University of Florida volleyball 
player Carli Snyder was prepar -
ing for bed on a quiet night in her 
hometown of Macomb, Michigan, 
when her phone flashed and buzzed 
beside her.
The caller ID read “C.K.”Caroline Knop was calling.
The ensuing conversation was a 
shock to Snyder’s system.
Knop, one of the top volley
-
ball players in the country and 
one of Snyder’s best friends, was 
transferring from the University of 
Michigan, where she starred for the 
Wolverines as an outside hitter.
And she was committing to the 
Florida Gators. 
Now a star player in the Gators’ 
backcourt, Knop’s journey to Florida 
is an interesting tale, and her rela -
tionship with Snyder is even more intriguing.  
Knop and Snyder hadn’t always 
been close. When the two first met, 
they hated each other. 
But, a connection once defined 
by hatred and rivalry turned into a 
relationship of confidence and trust. 
And now, their close relationship 
is paying dividends on the court, where Florida has a 14-2 record and features one of the most high-pow
-
ered offenses and one of the most physical defenses in the Southeast
-
ern Conference.
In the 32-year history of the 
program, the Gators have never won a national championship.
Knop hopes this is the year, and 
she’s ready to give it her all.
“I’m very passionate about what 
I do, in everything that I do,” Knop 
said. “If you’re not gonna do it right, 
if you’re not gonna give 100 percent, I don’t believe in really doing it at 
all.”
•   •   •
Snyder and C.K., as Knop is 
affectionately known, had a history together.
The two first crossed paths as 
eager high school freshmen at a 
Michigan volleyball camp.
It wasn’t a friendly meeting.Knop recalled Snyder constantly 
bragging about Florida’s volleyball program.
“Oh my gosh, I just really wanna 
go to Florida,” Knop recalled Snyder saying. “‘They just have these nutri
-
tionists, and the program’s amaz -
ing.’ And we were at Michigan camp together!”
Knop’s first impression of Sny
-
der?
“I hated her guts,” she said. “Blonde, frizzy hair — even crazier 
than it is today — I mean, it was just 
like, ‘Who is this girl?’”
After camp, they went their sepa -
rate ways — Snyder back to Ma -
comb, and Knop 2,000 miles back to her home in sunny Pasadena, 
California — unaware that this first 
engagement wouldn’t be their last.
Eventually, the two young 
athletes blossomed into high school 
stars. Snyder became an elite outside 
hitter for Macomb’s Dakota High 
School. Knop, who was a multiple-
sport athlete at Pasadena’s La Salle High School, became a first-rate 
libero for the Lancers. 
They both had very successful 
prep careers.
In addition to being named 
the 2013-2014 Michigan Gatorade 
Player of the Year, Snyder was a 
four-time First Team All-Michigan 
selection and was one of only three sophomores recognized by Vol
-
leyball Magazine’s “25 Underclass -
men to Watch.” Across the country in Southern California, Knop was 
making waves throughout the west 
coast.
In addition to being added to the 
MaxPreps California All-State First 
Team from 2011 to 2013, Knop, with 
her fearless and unrelenting playing 
style, led La Salle to four-straight league championships.
Eventually, each athlete’s respec
-
tive high school career came to an 
end, and they both had to make a 
choice: where to play college vol -
leyball.
Ultimately, Snyder chose Florida. 
Knop chose Michigan.
After years of separation — and 
over a year into their collegiate 
careers — Snyder and Knop crossed 
paths for the second time. On the 
first occasion, the two women were 
young girls just delving into their 
volleyball careers. This time around, however, they were suiting up for 
the USA Women’s Volleyball Junior 
National Team at the 2015 European 
Global Challenge in Croatia.
“If there’s one person on this 
team I would hate to room with, it 
would be Carli Snyder,” Knop re
-
membered telling her parents before her flight to Europe. “I hoped, dear 
God, I never see that girl this trip.”
They became roommates.And by the time they departed 
back to the United States, Snyder and Knop left with more than just 
gold medals. They left with the 
beginning of a close friendship.
“I loved her after day one,” Knop 
said.
“Now we’re the best of friends,” 
Snyder added.
•   •   •
During the fourth set of Florida’s 
match against Oregon on Aug. 27, 
the Gators were in a rut. Up 24-22 
and only needing a single point to 
extend the match to the fifth and final set, Oregon was closing in. 
In front of a packed, raucous 
crowd at the Matthew Knight Arena 
in Eugene, Oregon, the Ducks could 
smell impending victory like a pred
-
ator can sense its wounded prey.
It could have been all over for 
Florida.
But Knop wasn’t about to let that 
happen.
“It was a look on her face,” UF 
coach Mary Wise said. “She just refused to lose that set.”
She didn’t.The Gators won the fourth set 
26-24 and successfully closed out the match.
That’s just a microcosm of what 
Knop has brought to this Florida 
team. 
She has brought passion. She has 
brought energy. And although she’s only 5-foot-8, she has a personality 
as large as the state she hails from.
Before Florida’s matchup with 
in-state rival Florida State on Sept. 
14, Knop had yet to experience what 
it meant to be apart of the intense, 
hate-filled rivalry.
But that didn’t stop her from get
-
ting in the spirit of things.
“I want raucous crowds. I want 
people yelling obscenities at me,” 
Knop said before marching into 
FSU’s infamous Tully Gym. “Let’s go crazy.”
Knop has a killer instinct, a 
mentality that she so boldly and 
unabashedly presents.
Before the Gators’ second home 
match of the season, a night match 
against Jacksonville University in 
the Lemerand Athletic Center, the 
Gators’ starting lineup was an -
nounced before an excited crowd of 
over 700 Gator fans in “The Lem.”
Knop was hyped, dancing, 
pumping her fists and kicking her 
legs like this was the last volleyball 
game of her life.
But that’s just one part of her 
athletic persona.
“You talk about C.K.’s mentality. 
That’s only half of it,” Wise said. “The other half is her game.”
With her incomparable attitude 
and swift reflexes, Knop has been 
an anchor for the Gators in the 
backcourt.
“She just plays the libero position 
with the aggressiveness and the IQ 
you want in that jersey,” Wise said. 
“She transferred, did not sit out, changed positions and to be playing 
at this high a level? I think that tells 
you a lot about how talented she is.”
•   •   •
It’s early in the morning. The sun 
has barely peaked over the horizon, and Knop is already awake, buzzing 
with excitement.
Snyder, in a deep, comfortable 
sleep, is shaken awake by her room
-
mate.
There’s no time for rest. They’ve only been awake for 
a few minutes and have only just 
begun to erase the sleep from their 
eyes, but they don’t care.
It’s time to dance.Knop turns cranks up the volume 
on her loudspeakers, and the party is on. 
The lyric “Do you believe in life 
after love?” from Cher’s song “Be
-
lieve," accompanied by an inspir -
ing electronic beat, ripples through 
the morning silence and sends the 
two serious athletes into a dancing 
frenzy.
“On the court, everyone sees 
how intense she is,” Synder said of 
Knop. “It’s just so funny because 
she’ll wake me up 8 a.m. and we’ll 
start blasting music and have morn -
ing dance parties. Every morning.”
With her coaches, her teammates 
and her best friend by her side, 
Knop’s journey has come full circle.
From the hatred, the mistakes, 
the new friendships and the deci -
sions, Knop remembers it all.
And that’s what drives her to 
push forward.
“I think everything in life truly 
does happen for a reason, and I’m so happy I’m here,” Knop said.
“I could not be happier.”
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.orgAn unlikely friendship: Caroline Knop finds home at UF
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Before Carli Snyder (left) and Caroline Knop (right) became best friends, the two weren't so friendly. "I 
hated her guts, " Knop said. "Blonde, frizzy hair ... I mean, it was just like, 'Who is this girl?'"
Sophomore guard Eleanna Chris-
tinaki, born in Greece, has taken Portakal under her wing, helping acculturate her to the language and customs of the United States.
Other team leaders have also 
reached out to the rookies, hoping to impart the wisdom of their years and smooth the transition to col-lege.Ultimately, it all translates to 
team chemistry.
And with a bond that’s grow-
ing tighter each day, the freshman five can safely call the Gators’ court their home.“I just make sure they’re OK, 
make sure they don’t need for any-thing,” senior Ronni Williams said. “I don’t want them to ever feel like ‘oh man, I need to call my mom,’ ‘oh, I can’t do this.’ No.“It’s fine for you to call your 
mom, but you have that family here as well.”
@ajlb95   
alopez@alligator.org
WHOOPS,  from pg 15Two of Florida's five freshmen are international athletes 20   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2016
