We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 38 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
Florida football plays Missouri on 
Saturday
Jalen T abor and UF’s defense are looking to 
make a statement, pg. 14
Hippodrome State Theatre debuts new show
It’s an adaptation of “Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?” , pg. 8
Best breakfast places in Gainesville
See our top ﬁ  ve picks, pg. 10Missed Miami’s III Points music 
festival?
Read our recap, pg. 10
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
With no protesters in sight, thousands of 
eager voters snaked their way through a park-
ing lot before packing into a raucous Ocala stadium Wednesday to hear Donald Trump speak.
At a political rally held at noon at the South-
eastern Livestock Pavilion, about 15,000 of the Republican presidential candidate’s supporters cheered and clapped as Trump took the stage, the patriotic anthem “Proud to be an Ameri-can” leading him there.
In his hour-long speech, Trump touched 
on education, trade and energy reform while criticizing President Barack Obama and Demo-cratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, whom he called a liar and the most corrupt 
person to ever seek the presidency.
He told the attendees, many dressed in red 
Trump memorabilia, that he was embarrassed 
with the current state of the country and that this would be the last time voters could change the “rigged” U.S. political system.
“Whether I win, lose or draw, I’m ashamed 
of what’s happened to our country — and so are you,” Trump said.
Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New 
York, introduced Trump. Giuliani told the 
crowd the movement Trump started a year ago 
has grown into something special.
Giuliani, too, took aim at Clinton, claiming 
he didn’t remember seeing the then-New York senator in New York City following the 9/11 terror attacks — despite them being photo-graphed together.
At about 10:30 p.m. Tuesday, nearly 14 
hours before the rally began, Kandy Christian-sen waited outside the venue for a chance to let her sons, 13 and 15, see who she hopes will be president.
“What really motivated me to come is my 
children,” the 53-year-old said, wearing a pink shirt that read “Ladies for Trump.”
As she stood in line, Ana Barber said she 
was reminded of the time she met Trump 10 years ago in Mar-a-Lago, Florida.
“He is a sweetheart,” she said. “He is not 
what they portray him to be.”
Barber said that meeting is the reason why 
she wasn’t upset by the recently leaked audio of lewd comments Trump made 11 years ago ‘ Trump Train’ comes to Ocala
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Donald Trump smiles while addressing the crowd at a rally in Ocala on Wednesday.
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Will Enderley campaigns for Donald Trump near 
the line of people waiting to enter the rally venue. He has made more than 100 buttons and stickers for this election, including the ones on his hat.
CITING HURRICANE MAT-
THEW, HE OVERTURNED 
GOV . SCOTT’S DECISION.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida’s voter registration dead-
line has been extended to Tuesday.Florida District Judge Mark E. 
Walker ruled Wednesday in favor of the Florida Democratic Party in a lawsuit against Gov. Rick Scott to extend the deadline after Hurricane Matthew forced residents along the east coast to evacuate their homes. 
After Scott decided not to extend 
the deadline, the Florida Democratic Party took the issue to court, nam-ing Scott and Ken Detzner, Florida’s secretary of state, as defendants. 
Walker’s decision, which was 
announced Wednesday, came after he extended the deadline by a day.
“No right is more precious than 
having a voice in our democracy,” he wrote in Wednesday’s order. “Hopefully it is not lost on anyone that the right to have a voice is why this great country exists in the ﬁ  rst place.”
In Gainesville, the effort to regis-
ter voters continues. 
Alachua County Supervisor of 
Elections Pam Carpenter said that in her 12 years serving as supervisor, she’s never seen such a high voter registration increase in Alachua County.
On Tuesday, the elections of-
ﬁ  ce received more than 1,600 new voter registrations. On Wednesday, she said they received at least 1,000 more.
 Federal judge extends voter registration for six more daysSEE TRUMP,  PAGE 3
SEE EXTENSION,  PAGE 3Trump criticized Clinton, Paul RyanSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  52°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING?
What are your #relationshipgoals?
Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal 
Violence Education at GatorWell 
will host the #RelationshipGoals Healthy Relationship Fair on Thursday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
on the Plaza of the Americas. For 
more information, please visit 
gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu/programs/strive, and check out the “So 
Many Ways” advocacy calendar.
GLAM Craft Show accepting applications
Gainesville’s largest indie craft show is accepting applications for 
its Dec. 4 event. Artists and craft-
ers who make giftable goods are 
encouraged to apply by Oct. 23. 
Apply online at glamcraftshow.com/apply.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 38
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
on an “Access Hollywood” bus. The 
tapes were released Friday by The Washington Post.
In the video, Trump is heard tell-
ing the then-host of the show that his 
“star” status enabled him to make 
sexual advances on women without 
their consent, including kissing them 
and grabbing them “by the p----.”
“Any man that says he’s never 
said that before is a liar,” Barber 
said.
Self-proclaimed “Trump Twins” 
Nora Kuehn and Kora Frontin, both 69, said the outrage over the “Ac-cess Hollywood” tape was much ado about nothing.
Frontin called the people offend-ed “goody-two-shoes on their high horse.” Her sister agreed.
“Women have a tendency to 
throw themselves at these men,” Kuehn said.
Diverting attention from the 
leaked comments, Trump spent much of his time discussing WikiLeaks’ recent release of thou-sands of Democratic Party emails, which he said show that Clinton may have received an unfair advan-
tage prior to their televised town-hall 
debate. 
He said one of her staff members 
participated in sensitive conversa-tions with the Department of Justice about the release of Clinton’s emails, which were sent using a private server.
Trump also leveled blows at his own party, criticizing House Speaker Paul Ryan, a fellow Republican, for not supporting his candidacy. At one 
point, he went as far as to theorize 
the existence of “sinister” plots to undermine his campaign — plots he vowed to unearth.
Regarding the threat of terror-
ism, primarily from ISIS, Trump said the terrorist group hopes Clin-ton becomes president, adding that she intends to increase the amount 
of Syrian refugees the U.S. admits by 
550 percent.
“This will ﬁ  nally be the year the 
American people say, ‘Enough is enough,’” Trump said.
@martindvassolo
mvassolo@alligator.org 
TRUMP,  from pg. 1About 15,000 came to see Trump speakGrace King / Alligator Staff
From left: Nora Kuehn and Kora Frontin, the self-proclaimed “Trump Twins, ” showed up at 6 a.m. on 
Wednesday morning for the rally in Ocala. The sisters said their support of Trump is partially due to his stance on coal mining because their grandfather was a West Virginia coal miner.
“We’re excited that people are 
this excited about the elections,” she said. 
Since March, Carpenter said, 
the elections ofﬁ  ce has received 
more than 30,000 new registered 
voters. The extended deadline is a good thing, but residents shouldn’t wait until the last minute to regis-ter, she said.
“You’ve got a whole week 
here,” she said. “Come on in and get it done.”
At UF, Student Government 
agency Chomp the Vote has reg-
istered more than 500 students 
since the beginning of the sum-
mer, said Destiny Goede, the ex-ecutive director of the agency. 
The nonpartisan organization 
has held voter registration drives 
— along with registration tabling 
three times a week — and will continue to do so until the new deadline, she said. 
“The extension has been ben-
eﬁ  cial, speciﬁ  cally for our stu-dents,” Goede said. 
TJ Pyche, the student com-
munications assistant at the Bob 
Graham Center for Public Service, 
said the center has been tabling at Marston Science Library to regis-ter voters. 
“It’s important that people are 
participating no matter what their political afﬁ  liation is,” he said. 
The National Study of Learn-
ing, Voting, and Engagement, con-ducted by the Institute for Democ-
racy & Higher Education at Tufts 
University, found that in the 2012 
U.S. elections, 61 percent of UF students voted. 
Of the 36,619 registered UF 
students, 26,137 voted in that 
election. Pyche said UF students 
have proven to be involved when it comes to elections.  
“I think come November, 
you’ll really see that UF, in terms 
of voter participation, will be one 
of the most engaged universities in the state,” he said. 
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org EXTENSION,  from pg. 1The new deadline is Tuesday
TOP FIELDS OF STUDY FOR UF 
STUDENTS VOTING IN 2012
• 59.2 percent of students studying professions 
• 61.2 percent of students studying trades 
• 61.6 percent of students studying multi/interdisciplinary studies 
• 63.4 percent of students studying communication, journalism and related programs
• 65.3 percent of students studying education
For more on how UF’s College of Education students did, see our story at 
alligator.org. Data came from the National Study of Learning, Voting, and Engagement. 4   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
THEY HELD TOMATO-SHAPED 
SIGNS READING ‘JUSTICE’
 AND ‘RESPECTO. ’ 
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
An employee at the Wendy’s on Archer 
Road called police after protesters entered the 
restaurant in an attempt to deliver a letter.
About 15 people stood outside of the res-
taurant Wednesday afternoon in protest of 
Wendy’s refusal to sign onto the Fair Food 
Program, which works to create partnerships between farmers, farm workers and retail food companies to ensure rights are protected. 
The protest was organized by the Coali-
tion of Immokalee Workers, an activist group for farm workers that visited the Reitz Union Wendy’s earlier Wednesday.
“We’ve marched, protested, called, sent 
letters and Wendy’s has continued to refuse to listen to farm workers within its food chain,” Silvia Perez, a 41-year-old farm worker and member of the coalition, said in Spanish through a translator.
The protesters held tomato-shaped signs 
reading “Justice” and “Respecto” and chanted as they handed out ﬂ  iers to people who pulled 
over to talk to them.
When protesters entered the restaurant 
to drop off a letter to management, one em-
ployee demanded they leave while another employee called police. They ﬁ  ltered out and continued to protest from the sidewalk.
Employees at the fast-food chain declined 
to comment. Wendy’s suppliers meet all local, state and federal laws, but the coalition also 
wants Wendy’s to pay an additional fee to the 
tomato harvesters, Heidi Schauer, a Wendy’s spokeswoman, wrote in an email.
“These individuals are not Wendy’s em-
ployees, and we have not thought it appropri-ate to pay another company’s workers,” she said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  Protesters boycott GNV Wendy’s
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
On Monday, a UF student was arrested af-
ter a man stole about $1,600 in merchandise 
from the UF Bookstore, University Police said.
Daniel Alejandro Fonseca, a 21-year-old 
UF history junior, was arrested on a charge 
of theft. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where he was released Tuesday 
on his own recognizance.
At about 5:40 p.m. on Sept. 7, a bookstore 
employee saw a man carry several textbooks to an area out of plain sight between store aisles, according to a police report ﬁ  led Mon-
day. The man then put the textbooks — worth $1,660 — in his backpack and walked past the registers without paying, which triggered the 
bookstore’s anti-theft alarm, according to the report. Surveillance footage showed the man en-
tering the store with a seemingly empty back-pack, walking through the store with two 
books in hand and then leaving with a signiﬁ  -
cantly fuller bag, according to the report.
Dennis Barry, the UF Bookstore assistant 
director, reviewed inventory and said he be-lieved the man stole ﬁ  ve textbooks, according 
to the report.
Fonseca declined to comment on the ar-
rest.
In March, he was found guilty on a charge 
of criminal mischief after police said he caused $400 in damages to a metal barrier at 
The Rowdy Reptile bar, according to a police report and Alachua County Court records.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  UPD: student charged with 
textbook theft from UF BookstoreTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A Tampa, Florida, man died Wednesday 
after his semi-truck rolled over multiple times, 
leaking nearly 8,000 gallons of jet fuel during 
the accident, the Florida Highway Patrol said.
Shortly before 7 a.m., the 24-year-old man, 
who has not been identiﬁ  ed pending his fam-ily’s notiﬁ  cation, traveled north on U.S. High-
way 301 near Waldo, Florida, when the truck 
rolled over multiple times, according to an 
FHP report.
As it overturned, the truck’s cab discon-
nected from the trailer, and the driver was pronounced dead at the scene, according to the report. 
The semi-truck came to a rest on the north-east shoulder of the road, at which point the fuel it held leaked onto the highway and into 
a ditch, said Gus Olmos, the Alachua County 
Water Resources manager.
A vacuum truck was brought in Wednes-
day afternoon to clean up the fuel before 
workers excavate the area to remove contami-nated soil and other materials, Olmos said.
He said it could take up to three days to 
clean the area. Once clean, the Alachua Coun-
ty Environmental Protection Department will need to take samples from the area to ensure 
it’s safe. 
“It’s going to take a while to clean up,” Ol-
mos said. “Eight thousand gallons — that’s a very large discharge, and it is unusual.”
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.org  Man dies, jet fuel leaks 
after semi-truck rollover
By RJ Sonbeek 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Ros Fiol, 19, will be drawing portraits of 
students for two minutes each on the Plaza of 
Americas today. 
“It’s always a good idea to promote the 
arts, because it’s a great way for students to 
stimulate creativity,” the UF mathematics and 
art sophomore said. 
Fiol will have a booth set up as a part of 
the Pop-Up Culture event hosted by UF’s Col-lege of the Arts to celebrate National Arts and Humanities Month.
The event, which runs from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m., will feature performances from 15 stu-dent organizations and other campus depart-
ments. Students will be able to view perfor-
mances that depict cultures from around the world, listen to a poetry reading and watch theater and musical performances.
The goal of the event is to connect students 
to the arts and humanities resources UF has to offer, said Allison Alsup, the public relations and partnerships specialist for the college. She said hosting the event on the Plaza of the Americas will help participating students reach a larger audience.
“We want students to be able to reach 
people they may not have access to with the cultural event,” she said. 
Alsup said students who want to partici-
pate can register on the event’s Facebook page so performances can be scheduled.
“We want to know what’s going on so we 
can have the best opportunity for people to be able to hear and see all of the different events we have going on,” she said.  College of the Arts hosting 
arts and humanities eventThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITORReconsidering 
our laws against 
marijuana
Do you remember, dear reader, sitting in a Drug Abuse 
Resistance Education class in elementary school, taking that solemn and sacred vow to never touch drugs? We do. Statistically, most of you have broken that oath. It’s no secret that a sizable portion of the college demograph-
ic has experimented with cannabis in one of its many forms.
With more and more evidence coming out each day about 
the plant’s medicinal effects, many states have decriminalized it, legalized it for medical purposes or flat-out legalized it for con-sumption by individuals over the age of 21. While the drug is becoming more and more common, it still remains illegal on the federal level and is classified in the same category as drugs like heroin and opium.
While, like most things in life, cannabis consumption has its 
highs and lows, there is not a single shred of validated scientific evidence that says marijuana ought to be classified in the same sphere as heavy drugs that kill people.
Regardless, an article published in The Washington Post this 
Wednesday claimed those arrested for marijuana possession out-number those arrested for all violent crimes combined. According to the article, at least 137,000 people get arrested for drug posses-sion charges each day. This is absolutely absurd.
The war on drugs was an absolute failure. Our legal system 
already has enough clutter as it is, and it should not be wast-ing its time on usually victimless crimes. Drug offenses ought to be considered a matter of public health rather than a question of criminal behavior. But while it is a reality in some countries, which have all found immense success in terms of reducing drug use, overdoses and illegal purchases, the American justice system lags behind. Why?
Pursuing drug-related crimes, while bogging down our legal 
system, also funds the system immensely. Private prisons would 
see a sharp decline in population. Lawyers would have reduced 
caseloads. This editorial, however, is not about drugs as a whole. Just simple marijuana decriminalization would be sufficient to see some of these impacts. Allegedly. 
But it doesn’t have to be this way. It’s possible that taxes could 
be taken from the purchases of marijuana and put back into the economy. Colorado has built entire schools and roads to those schools solely off the revenue received in taxable marijuana. The U.S. was a nation founded on the cash crops of tobacco and cot-
ton. For us to reject marijuana as the next step simply because 
outdated propaganda tried to combat it against industries like wood is simply foolish.
Regardless of the finances, the fact that young, bright lives 
are ruined because they’re found with plants in their glove com-partments is beyond unacceptable. It’s an embarrassment for our great country. Statistically, American prisoners make up a little more than 4 percent of the global population, and nearly a quarter — 22 percent, to be exact — of the global population of 
prisoners. Are we to be proud of the fact that when it comes to 
incarcerating our constituents, we’re the best?
Because of outdated drug laws, we take away the futures of so 
many of our talented neighbors. Do you remember the rhetoric surrounding marijuana in our D.A.R.E. classes? That’s where it starts. Law reflects the opinions of those who create it, and we as Americans ought to reconsider the education we provide for our youth so that we can hope they have futures in universities, not in for-profit prisons.
Reflecting on death and life after graduation
The halfway point of the semester is fast 
approaching. Midterms are near. 
For many, tension and anxiety will 
fill the coming weeks. There are exams to prepare for. Essays to write. Projects 
to complete. But as the mounting pressure to succeed intensifies during this time of year, 
it is important to take a step back and look 
around — to savor the little moments in time spent with the people around you. 
One Thursday in late September, I was sitting on the 
back porch of my first-floor apartment with three close 
friends. The night was humid and indistinct. Buena Vis-
ta Social Club was playing softly on Pandora. 
Normally, our time together is easygoing and light-
hearted. We like to laugh and make fun of each other, 
often excessively. But our conversation that night em-
braced a different tone. 
A few days prior, Jose Fernandez — the star pitcher 
for the Miami Marlins — died suddenly in a boating ac-cident. This year has been littered with celebrity deaths: 
David Bowie, Prince and Alan Rickman, to name a few. 
I also experienced death firsthand when my father 
passed away 11 days before school started. 
Yet Fernandez’s death evoked something different. It 
hit us all hard in a weird, unexpected way. When older 
people die, it is sad, but not necessarily tragic. This was an instance of life’s flame extinguished too soon. It felt like a punch to the gut. 
He was just 24 years old, only three years older than 
us. He was expecting a child with his girlfriend. He had his whole life ahead of him. 
So we sat together on the porch that night with his 
death fresh in our minds. Our conversation left no stone 
unturned. We discussed the fragility of life and how 
quickly time passes, impending graduation and the pos-sibility of graduate school, marriage and the search for jobs.  
We made plans for this semester to go 
camping and fishing, to spend more time out-doors and more time with each other. 
Yet none of those plans are guaranteed. 
Jose Fernandez went out on his boat that fate-
ful night expecting to return home. One min-
ute, he was doing something he loved. The next, it was all over. 
Before we knew it, we had talked well past midnight 
and into the early morning hours. It was almost 3 a.m. 
Some people might not appreciate the worth of a sim-
ple conversation, but it’s moments like these with the people we care about most that need to be savored: out-wardly insignificant moments when time seems to stand 
still, the world stops spinning and nothing matters but 
the people around us. 
On the surface, it was a mundane moment. There 
was nothing exceptional about that night, save for the people surrounding me on that porch. It’s little snap-
shots in time like these with the most important people 
that we carry with us forever. 
Two of my friends are seniors like me. One is a ju-
nior. We only have a short time left before our run at UF 
comes to an end and we’re forced go our separate ways. 
If these next months at all resemble the last three years, it’s going to go by too fast. 
Too often, we get trapped in the whirlwind grind of 
school and work. We become so focused on what comes 
next in life that we lose sight of what’s happening now.  
Slow down. Be grateful. Be unusual. 
Learn to love the firm promise of today as much as 
the untapped potential of tomorrow. 
Brian Lee is a UF English senior. His column ap-
pears on Thursdays.Brian Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
There are a lot of times I 
think I did college wrong. This becomes especially 
evident as my college 
career slowly creeps to-
ward a close, while my sister’s is just taking off. Because of the 
glorious war of sister rivalry, 
sometimes I can’t help but com-pare our freshman years. She’s been making new friends every day, working out regularly, go-
ing out every weekend and bonding with 
the people on her ﬂ  oor.
In a way, she’s the poster child for the 
perfect freshman-year experience. The 
friends I made my freshman Fall semester 
did not last beyond then, I think I went to the gym once or twice and the ﬁ  rst time my friends and I tried to go out, we ended up taking personality quizzes and eating 
popcorn. 
At the time, I felt very insecure about 
not making a million new friends and not 
going to parties every weekend. Some-
times, if I’m feeling particularly self-crit-
ical that day, I think to myself, “Maybe I should’ve picked a different major. Maybe I should’ve been more involved in that particular club. Maybe this, maybe that.”
This, I believe, is a very common feel-
ing, especially among those who don’t necessarily follow the typical path. And 
even among those who do, there may be 
a doubt in their minds about what they could be doing differently. We just can’t help but compare our experiences to the 
ones we are told we should have — be it 
from our peers, our families or the media. 
We’ve been told college is the time to 
go out and party, it’s going to be the best four years of our lives and we’re going 
to meet our best friends within weeks of 
starting classes.
And sure, that’s one path you can take. I didn’t meet my best friends my fresh-
man year. Instead, I grew closer to two of my friends from back home, my roommate whom I had known since middle school 
but had grown apart from in high school and a friend from high school 
who transitioned from being someone I talked to in the hall-
ways to someone I could conﬁ  de 
in. Even though I wanted to go out and go to parties, it didn’t really happen that often, but we 
would go out at night and have 
picnics at random places on campus. 
We would also walk down-
town, as none of us had cars at 
the time, every week to go to the Master of Fine Arts readings — a series run by students in UF’s creative writing program — at Volta Coffee, Tea & Chocolate. When 
I’m feeling particularly reﬂ  ective and at 
peace with myself, I look back on my freshman year and feel content. It may not have been the “right” way, but it was the right way for me. It was what I was ready 
for — what I was comfortable with at the 
time. 
I know there’s some freshman out 
there right now who might be feeling that 
pressure to have a typical college experi-
ence and may be feeling insecure that he 
or she isn’t meeting new friends every 
day or going out three times a week. I just want all of those people to know that it’s OK. There’s no “right” way to go through 
college; there’s a way that’s right for you. 
Don’t compare your experiences to 
those who seem to be getting it "right." 
Everyone takes different paths and has different experiences. In the end, there’s 
no point in regretting what you did not do. 
Instead, you can reﬂ  ect on what you did do and the moments that were important, 
even if at the time they didn't seem like it. 
Petrana Radulovic is a UF English and 
computer science senior. Her columns ap-
pear on Thursdays. Fifteen years ago, a little girl 
was in Washington, D.C. 
She was sitting in the cor-
ner of a conference room playing with Polly Pockets 
while her dad was in an impor-tant round table meeting with the 
Heritage Foundation discussing 
water treatment systems. She was 
promised that if she was as quiet 
as a mouse during the meeting, 
her dad would take her sightsee-
ing. Oh, how she was dying to see 
the Lincoln Memorial.  
That little girl was me.
When the meeting adjourned, a swarm 
of people got up from the table. I stuffed my Polly Pockets into my backpack and 
went to meet up with my dad.  He extended 
his hand for me to take it when a woman 
approached us aghast.
“My goodness,” she said, “Has that 
child been here this whole time?”
My dad looked at me, smiled and said, 
“Savannah, I would like you to meet Chris-
tine Todd Whitman, the current adminis-
trator of the EPA.”
I didn’t know what an EPA was or why 
it was important, but Whitman extended 
her hand for me to shake and introduced herself. My dad explained that, yes, I had been in the conference room the entire time and had promised me that if I behaved then 
I could go sightseeing.
Whitman told him he better be ready to 
follow through with his end of the bargain 
because I was one of the most well-be-haved children she had ever seen and that 
she hadn't even known I had been there.
Fast forward 15 years, and I know a lot 
more than ﬁ  ve-year-old me knew in 2001.  For example, I know that EPA stands for 
Environmental Protection Agency and that Christie Whitman was the administrator 
during George W. Bush’s presidency. I also 
know that I was standing in the presence of a former governor of New Jersey.
Yesterday I had the honor of interview-
ing Whitman about her thoughts regarding the current election and how environmen-
tal policy has gotten little to no coverage 
at all.
“I’m actually kind of glad it hasn’t re-
ceived much attention,” Whitman said.
It is her view that candidates tend to 
politicize issues of environmental policy, 
but when they get into ofﬁ  ce, unforeseen circumstances occur, and those 
issues take the back burner to 
everything else. Between the 
candidates, however, Whitman stated that Hillary Clinton has 
a stronger environmental plat-
form than Donald Trump.
The former Republican gov-
ernor mentioned in her op-ed 
“Why Clinton is the Only Choice 
for President” that she would be 
backing the Democrat this time 
around instead of the Republi-
can candidate. Whitman has also been ac-tive in the #NeverTrump movement.
“Hillary is much more balanced in the 
area,” Whitman said. “This administration does not have a good enough relationship 
with Congress right now.”
Whitman said the Obama administra-
tion puts too much focus on the regulatory 
process and is weak when it comes to is-sues of environmental policy. The EPA, 
she said, was started with the intent to give 
people cleaner and healthier air.
In recent press conferences, both Presi-
dent Barack Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry have mentioned that global 
warming and climate change are bigger 
threats to the U.S. than terrorism.
Whitman said while global warming, 
or climate change, is on another level, it is still an issue of national security — just a 
very different one.
“One of the major sources of pollution 
is combustion of hydrocarbons for trans-
portation, agriculture and manufacturing,” said Jon Anderson, a 69-year-old UF fami-
ly, youth and community sciences graduate 
student. “While ISIS poses a threat to the U.S., it is hard to conceive of scenarios in-
volving ISIS that overshadow these facts.”
Back in March, Donald Trump men-
tioned he would eliminate the Department of Education and the EPA in order to bal-
ance the national budget. Whitman said Trump cannot eliminate the EPA, as it was 
created by the people in order to obtain 
healthy, clean air.
“Remember,” Whitman said, “Mother 
Nature doesn’t care about geo-political boundaries … The EPA can be reformed, 
but not eliminated.”
Savannah Edgens is a UF journalism 
junior. This column originally appeared 
on her website and is reprinted with her 
permission.You do you: There’s no ‘right’ way 
to experience your college yearsDon't ignore environmental issuesColumn Guest Column
Petrana 
Radulovic
opinions@alligator.orgSavannah 
Edgens
Speaking Out
“Don't compare your 
experiences to those who 
seem to be  getting it 'right.'"Keep up with the Avenue on 
Twitter.Tweet us @TheAlligator. 
Miami’s III Points festival recap
It celebrates art, music and technology, pg. 10THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
University Galleries opens new exhibit 
It features a world-renowned artist, pg. 9By Janiece Sebris
Avenue Writer
The Hippodrome State Theatre 
will debut an adaptation of the nov-
el-turned-cult-classic-ﬁ  lm “Whatev-
er Happened to Baby Jane?” as its 
latest show. 
Discounted previews will end 
this week, and the play will run from Friday to Nov. 6, Jessica Hu-
rov, the Hippodrome’s managing 
director, said. 
Although “Whatever Happened 
to Baby Jane?” began as a novel by Henry Farrell, the book was later adapted for the screen and starred Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. It 
became one of the most famous 
movies made in the 1960s, said Lauren Caldwell, the Hippodrome’s artistic director and the director of the play.
Caldwell said she remembers 
watching the psychological thriller as a teenager with her mother and was still aware of it while growing up. 
“It’s one of those movies that 
has come up in conversation throughout my lifetime for a long time,” she said.
Caldwell watched the movie 
again in preparation for directing the play and noticed that although the play doesn’t mirror the ﬁ  lm, it holds true to the story.
The Hippodrome has been look-
ing for an adaptation of the ﬁ  lm for quite a while but hadn’t had luck with the scripts the theater re-ceived or found. The process took 
almost a year, but after ﬁ  nding the 
script and requesting a copy, the 
theater ﬁ  nally acquired the rights 
to the play, Caldwell said.
It has been a Hippodrome tra-
dition to put on plays during the month of October that celebrate 
Halloween. In the past, the theater 
has put on plays like “Dracula,” “The Turn of The Screw” and “Car-rie,” which are also more novel-to-ﬁ  lm adaptations. 
“Whatever Happened To Baby 
Jane?” with its suspenseful, spine-tingling moments, breaks up those scenes of tension with black, 
campy humor. This is what makes 
the play different from other psy-
chological thrillers.
Caldwell said locals want to be 
part of these Gainesville events, adding whatever holiday-themed activities possible to their sched-ules.
“Halloween is one of those mo-
ments in our yearly rituals that we live for,” she said. “People love Halloween.”
Although Gainesville is already ﬁ  lled with numerous Halloween-themed events during October, 
“Whatever Happened To Baby 
Jane?” brings a unique “process 
of terror” and comic relief for au-
dience members to partake in, 
Caldwell said.
The Hippodrome is well-known 
for putting on these Halloween-themed plays, Hurov said. She said 
she enjoys seeing audience mem-
bers come out and dress up for a fun night.
“You don’t have to go to Orlan-
do for Horror Nights; you can stay right here,” she said.
Discounted preview tickets cost 
$18. General admission for the play 
will range from $20 to $35, with 
discounts for UF and Santa Fe Col-lege students, in addition to other discounts, Hurov said.
Caldwell said she enjoys watch-
ing the costume-clad audience members ﬁ  le in to watch the play. They usually come as onstage char-acters if they’re big enough fans, she said, or they wear any particu-
lar costumes they enjoy. 
“It’s a big time; it’s a big party,” Hippodrome State Theatre debuts new show
Courtesy to the Alligator
Gainesville’s Hippodrome State Theatre debuts its new mainstage show “Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?” on Friday 
at 8 p.m., with a discounted preview show performed today at 7 p.m. The theater will run eight shows a week until Nov. 6. 
By Brooke Bajgrowicz
Avenue Writer
Rooney, a popular rock band 
from Los Angeles most recognized for its hit “When Did Your Heart Go Missing?” will return to Gainesville on Wednesday to perform. 
The band, alongside openers 
Royal Teeth and Swimming With Bears, will be performing new songs and old hits for The Groundswell Tour at High Dive. 
“When you book a tour, you 
get to talk about where you want to play, and I speciﬁ  cally was like, ‘I really want to go to Gainesville,’” said Robert Schwartzman, the front-man of Rooney. He is also known for his role in “The Princess Diaries,” in which he played Michael Moscovitz. 
The last time Rooney played 
in Gainesville was in 2011, and 
Schwartzman said he asked to go 
back because he recalled it being 
memorable.
Pat Lavery, the promoter at 
High Dive, said the band came to Gainesville several years ago and  he was happy to hear they wanted to return.
“I’m sure the crowd will be very 
enthusiastic to hear their new songs and see a band that hasn’t been here in a long time,” Lavery said.
Schwartzman said he is excited to 
share some of the new songs from 
their album “Washed Away,” which he’s received a lot of positive feed-
back on.
“People have said they ﬁ  nd the 
record has the Rooney sound they’ve 
come to love through these years, 
but it feels new,” he said.
While he wants the band to em-
brace songs from “Washed Away,” Schwartzman said the band also 
plans on playing crowd-pleasers at its Gainesville concert.
“I try to make every tour have its 
own personality,” he said. “I tried 
to design a setlist that’s really up-
beat, high energy, that leaves you from front to back super excited the whole night. I really try to encourage 
the crowd to let loose and enjoy the 
moment, kind of leave all their fears at home.”
While Rooney plans on bringing 
energy to High Dive, the lead singer said he knows the opening acts will 
follow suit.
“We spent a lot of time picking 
openers because we want the fans to be really, really excited about the en-
tire night of music,” he said. 
Schwartzman said he expects 
Royal Teeth to be “really aggressive 
and wanting to kill it every night,” 
and Swimming with Bears to be 
“feeding fans (and) wanting to con-
nect with people.”
Shanna Merceron, a UF English 
junior, said she has been a fan of 
Rooney for years and is looking for-
ward to seeing the band live.“I’m a frequent concert-goer,” the 
20-year-old said. “I’m excited to drag 
my friends to the High Dive next 
week for a night of good music and 
company.”
Tickets to The Groundswell Tour 
concert at High Dive are $15 in ad-vance at ticketﬂ  y.com and $17 the 
day of the show, with an additional 
$3 charge for those under 21. The concert is for those 18 or older.
“It takes a lot to make these 
shows happen, and I hope that peo-
ple appreciate that,” Schwartzman 
said. “My main goal is to show all the people that have been supportive all these years that I’m here, and I 
care, and I’m making music, and I 
want to keep making music.” 
 Rooney headlines Groundswell Tour, returns to Gainesville
MUSICTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
By Cindy Lu
Avenue Writer
UF’s University Galleries will 
open its newest exhibit, “Alpha,” 
today featuring pieces by artist Tony Stallard.
Stallard, a world-renowned art-
ist from England, has worked as an artist for 25 years. He has stud-ied at several schools, including the Wimbledon School of Art, and his work has been featured in vari-ous countries across the world, in-cluding Finland, Ireland, Canada and Japan.
Stallard said he specializes in 
public artwork.
“It is the notion of being able 
to make art in any situation and in any place within practical pa-rameters beyond the conﬁ  nes of a gallery space,” he said. “Art is out in the public domain to be experi-enced directly by the public.”
“Alpha” will focus on fusing 
science and art to establish a cre-ative connection between the two, he said. The collection is mainly crafted from bronze, steel and neon light, common materials for 
Stallard’s pieces.
“Both science and art has its 
roots in terms of creative ener-
gies,” he said. “(The exhibit) will be a window into the creative mind and how it emerges.”
The exhibit will feature a col-
laborative piece between Stallard and Nicole Horenstein, an asso-
ciate professor in the UF Depart-
ment of Chemistry. The piece will feature chemistry equations, drawings and thoughts on a chalk surface, showcasing the relation-ship between chemistry and cre-ativity.
“Science is a creative discovery 
process and can be closely allied 
with art,” Horenstein said.
Stallard started his partnership 
with UF when he was selected 
to create a public artwork for the campus’ new chemistry building, said Alexis Schuman, a third-year museum studies graduate student and a graduate assistant at Univer-sity Galleries. “Fullerene,” which will go up in November, is a stain-
less-steel fullerene molecule.
“UF has a long history of pub-
lic art,” Schuman said. “We knew 
an exhibit on the creative process behind these works would be an interesting avenue to explore.”
University Galleries is a facility 
of the School of Art and Art His-tory in the UF College of the Arts. 
The three galleries it consists of 
— the University Gallery, the Gary R. Libby Gallery and the Grinter Gallery — are used not only for academic purposes but also for providing the greater UF and Gainesville community with an innovative visual arts experience. 
“Alpha” will run until Dec. 6. 
The exhibit is held in the Gary R. Libby Gallery, which is located ad-jacent to the Fine Arts Building C.
Admission is free, and the pub-
lic is invited to attend the gallery’s opening reception today at 5 p.m. 
 UF art gallery gets new exhibit 
ART
By Emma Witmer
Avenue Writer
Local music lovers, write this 
down.
Gainesville native band The Sa-
vants of Soul will perform at The Wooly on Friday to celebrate UF’s 
Homecoming. Orlando’s The Sh-
Booms and Chris Shaw & Co. will also play at the show. 
The Savants of Soul is a 9-piece 
band featuring Austin Van Wie on guitar, John Gray Shermyen on bass, Zack Emerson on keyboards, David Rinehart on the tenor saxo-phone, Ray Vigil on the baritone saxophone, Alex Klausner on drums, Mandy Moo on vocals and trumpet and Jason Beverung on trombone. 
With an unrivaled stage presence 
and a unique, soulful sound that lends itself to musical genres like rock, punk and Motown, The Sa-vants of Soul bring something fresh and exciting to the table this Home-coming. For Klausner, that’s what it’s all about: creating an environ-ment of fun for people to dance and 
be themselves.Klausner compares the band’s 
sound to a Long Island Iced Tea.
 “(It’s) made of so many different 
components,” he said. “It’s potent. 
It’s powerful. It gets you dancing, and you’re going to have a great time.”
As natives to the area, the band 
always gets great energy out of its Gainesville shows, Klausner said. Sadly, Friday’s show may be locals’ last chance to see The Savants of 
Soul for a while. 
After the band’s next two 
Gainesville shows, the group will 
take a hiatus from performing to write new music. As for what the new music may sound like, Klaus-ner said he has no idea.
While what will come out of the 
writing room is still very up in the 
air, Klausner said not to expect any 
genre jumping.
“Expect more great soul music,” 
he said.
The dynamic show is set to begin 
at 8 p.m. and continue until 1 a.m. Tickets for the show can be pur-chased at showclix.com for $8 or at the door for $10. The Wooly brings soul 10   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
By Jeremy Haas
Avenue Writer
Last weekend, III Points music 
festival kicked off a three-day cel-
ebration of music, art and technol-ogy in Miami. The festival’s lineup not only featured many nationally and internationally acclaimed acts, but it also presented festival-goers with plenty of homegrown Miami artists.
Despite a Category 4 hurricane 
threatening to hit the southern tip of Florida just before III Points was scheduled to commence — and 
several out-of-town artists cancel-
ing due to the storm — III Points 
didn’t give out refunds, and the fes-tival went on. 
Luckily for the festival organiz-
ers, Miami wasn’t affected by the 
storm, and all three days were com-
pletely devoid of rain. Of course, a lot of people were still disappointed when some of their favorite acts 
dropped from the lineup — namely 
the festival’s biggest advertised art-
ist, LCD Soundsystem. Just a day before the event, the group mem-bers announced they wouldn’t be 
able to play.  
Still, the show went on, and al-
though many people were angry, III 
Points did notify potential attend-ees before any of them bought their tickets that the event would go on, rain or shine, without refunds.
LCD Soundsystem wasn’t the 
only big name to drop from the lineup. Massachusetts-based elec-tronic musician Oneohtrix Point Never, Los Angeles rapper Earl Sweatshirt and English producer Lapolux all canceled their sets the week of the event. If that wasn’t bad enough, III Points never made announcements about the dropped acts other than LCD Soundsystem.
“The LCD Soundsystem and 
Oneohtrix drops were heartbreak-
ing, but I understand the circum-stances were extenuating,” Claudia 
Acosta, who attended the festival, said. “I only wish III Points would 
have continually kept fans up-to-
date with the schedule changes.”
In addition, the festival offered 
no free water to attendees. To stay hydrated, they had to drink out of 
bathroom sinks or pay bartenders 
$6 each for a 16-ounce bottle of 
Evian water. This is a safety hazard 
at a music festival, dehydration is a very real possibility when attend-
ees spend hours dancing. I remem-
ber expressing my distaste with 
this to a bartender Friday, who simply responded,
“Where do you think you are, 
kid? This is Miami. There is no free 
water.”
And then it dawned on me: I 
was in Miami, a major city that in-
timidates newcomers. As someone 
who grew up in a sheltered suburb 
of Broward County, just north of 
Miami, I tended to ignore Miami-Dade County completely. Still, I found myself appreciating the au-
thenticity of the event and the Mi-
ami-based art featured around III 
Points as the weekend continued.
“Miami is one of those places 
that is really overwhelming when 
you ﬁ  rst get here,” said June Sum-
mer, a Miami resident who serves 
as the vocalist for Plastic Pinks. “After you tap into it, though, you can have a lot fun.”
Ultimately, I did have a lot of 
fun at III Points. I was exposed to an endless amount of electronic, hip-hop and experimental music. I danced a lot. I witnessed the most advanced and poignant pieces of modern art I’ve ever seen in per-son. 
I roamed the grafﬁ  ti-covered 
streets of Wynwood with my ears ringing and my feet sore Monday at 1 a.m., critical of the festival’s or-ganization but happy with the time I spent there.  III Points music festival recap: a taste of real Miami culture
By Rebecca Rubin
Avenue Writer
If there’s one thing Gainesville 
has no shortage of, it’s restaurants. 
There are so many breakfast op-tions alone, even a tough critic like 
Ron Swanson would be impressed. 
While Gainesville has plenty of 
places to get the classic bacon-
and-eggs combo, there are some 
hidden gems with unique takes on 
the conventional morning meal. In no particular order, here are some 
of the most mouthwatering venues 
to grab breakfast in the area.
Civilization  
Located at 1511 NW Second St., 
Civilization is a haven for vegetar-
ians, vegans and meat-eaters alike. This locally owned establishment boasts organic and non-traditional 
choices like “swamp eggs” and 
vegan sourdough French toast. 
Civilization, located just west of Main Street, is dine-in only and 
has brunch available Saturdays 
and Sundays.  To treat yourself 
Civilization-style, particularly for 
the 21+ crowd, get the hibiscus 
ginger mimosa and lemon ricotta 
beignets.
Metro DinerLocated in the 34th Street Plaza 
at 2132 SW 34th St., Metro Diner is comfort food done right. At 
least that’s what Guy Fieri said. 
Yes, Metro Diner was featured on 
Fieri’s show, “Diners, Drive-Ins 
and Dives,” so you know it’s the real deal. While the restaurant has 
delicious takes on your standard 
breakfast items, it also has sinful 
twists on everyday meals. Yo Hala 
on the Square is challah bread pre-pared like French toast and then 
stuffed and topped with a sweet, 
fruit-ﬁ  lled compote. The restaurant 
also features generous portions of 
fried chicken and wafﬂ  es to satisfy 
your salty and savory cravings. 
Root and PeckerLocated at 5408 NW Eighth 
Ave., Root and Pecker is easily one of the most underrated restau-
rants in Gainesville. It uses locally 
sourced ingredients, and just one 
visit will have you hooked on the 
quality of real food. On Sundays 
only, Root and Pecker offers an assortment of tasty brunch menu 
items. From sourdough wafﬂ  es 
with real maple syrup to home-
made biscuits and gravy, all diners 
can ﬁ  nd yummy options here. 
Maple Street Biscuit Com-
pany  
Located in Butler Plaza at 3904 
SW Archer Road, Maple Street Bis-
cuit Company is home to decadent 
Southern comfort food. Get your ﬁ  x of biscuits served any style: 
topped with fried chicken,  cov-
ered in cheese or smothered in 
jelly. This joint originated in Jack-
sonville, Florida, and was featured 
on the Food Network show “Guilty 
Pleasures.” You don’t have to go 
past Archer Road to get the Ins-
tagram-worthy breakfast you’ve been dreaming about. 
Emiliano’s Cafe
Two words: Eggs. Benedict. 
While Emiliano’s Cafe, located at 7 
SE First Ave., has a delicious range 
of trendy breakfast dishes like 
stuffed avocado and guava straw-
berry crepes, the real selling point 
is the “Bennys.” Emiliano’s offers 
exciting variations of eggs bene-
dict, with varieties like crab cake benedict, Cuban benedict, seafood 
benedict and even quinoa bene-
dict. Although Emiliano’s only 
serves breakfast Saturdays and 
Sundays (with different menus 
each day), the restaurant gives 
you something to look forward to 
on weekends.  Reviewing the best breakfast places across GainesvilleJeremy Haas / Alligator
Despite the threat of Hurricane Matthew, III Points still took over Miami as scheduled. Some 
acts, though,  like headliner LCD Soundsystem, were unable to make it to Florida as a result. 
Jeremy Haas / Alligator
III Points is not only a celebration of music but also of Miami’s art and culture. A mural of Don-ald Trump as the Joker was one of the many large pieces on display throughout the festival. 
MUSIC
LOCALBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-14-16-12-2Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
STAINLESS STEEL KEGERATOR
Like new condition, complete with manual, 
gas tank & gauges. $350 firm cash. Call 352-
591-2323    10-19-16-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished6 Furnishings
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 10 For Sale 12 Autos12   ALLIGATOR    THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
PT cleaner needed ASAP for homes, apart-ments, & offices. Weekly pay/8.50 hr; Must have/use own transportation. If interested please call 352-214-0868; gas paid for driving to numerous places in a shift....10-18-5-14SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
ACROSS
1 “__ Secretary”:
CBS drama
6 Tense period?
10 Studio payment
14 Anaheim’s
Honda Center,e.g.
15 West Coast sch.16 Harbinger17 Woody
Woodpecker’screator
18 Commuter option
19 Skip over
20 Circus barker
turned hurler
known forbrushbacks?
23 Auditorium24 Sound
sometimeschoked back
25 Harvest-ready28 Wooded valley31 Olympics
volleyball great
Kerri __ Jennings
35 Like fans after a
tough win,
probably
37 Pro words39 29-Down’s rock
gp.
40 Circus emcee
turned fry cook?
43 Reason to wear
earplugs
44 A, in many orgs.45 Saws
46 Emmy contender
48 French cathedral
city
50 “Not gonna
happen”
51 With 27-Down,
sign on a dampbench
53 Party leader55 Circus performer
turnedgardener?
62 Disturbs63 Button on some
remotes
64 Family name in a
1936 classic
65 Dramatic
accusation
66 Send a quick
message to
67 Contribute, as to
a kitty
68 Stinging insect69 Merit badge
holder
70 Baton, sayDOWN
1 West African
country
2 Ireland’s __
Islands
3 Lairs
4 Film noir
protagonist
5 Miata maker
6 Prince’s “__ Rain”
7 Berry at health
food stores
8 Narrow cut9 Soft minerals
10 Disc-shaped
robotic vacuum
11 Austen classic12 Nuremberg no13 Blasted stuff21 Respected tribe
members
22 Tearful words
25 Sitcom with a
1974 weddingepisode
26 Greek column
style
27 See 51-Across
29 Jeff of 39-Across30 Chair part32 Release33 “To __:
perchance todream”: Hamlet
34 Epsom Downs
racer36 Caught
38 __ Prime
41 Ideology
42 Red-and-white
topper
47 Admits (to)49 Yet
52 Estimates on
weather maps
54 Dots on a
subway map
55 Excel input56 Graphic __57 General Organa
in “Star Wars: TheForce Awakens”
58 Days and Holiday
59 Permission-
seeking phrase
60 “The Very
Hungry
Caterpillar” writer
Carle
61 Military status
62 Hanukkah
celebrator
By Doug Peterson and Patti Varol©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/13/1610/13/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 13, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 
 14 Help Wanted THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
LOOKING FOR A CAREER?
North Florida Retirement Village is holding a Career Fair on Oct. 13th from 9:30am – 12:30pm.  We are hiring for FT, PT, and PRN positions!  We are seeking:  ● Nurses (RN & LPN)● Assisted Living & Home Care CNAs● Companions● Servers/Kitchen Porters● Cooks● Sous Chefs● Security Guards● Transportation Drivers● Painters Come out to our Career Fair to learn more about our employment opportunities.  We are 
located at 8000 NW 27th Blvd. Gainesville, FL. 32606. Security Guards will direct visi-
tors once on campus. Please apply online at www.thevillageonline.com/careers.    10-13-16-6-14
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-18-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Homecoming Sidewalk Sale!
Save on shoes, shorts, tees, flip flops & 
more! 20-50% OFF. Friday, Saturday & 
Sunday. Lloyd Clarke Sports. 1 mile N on 
13th St. 352-372-7836
10-14-16-2-18
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SMALL BLACK DOG MISSINGLOST ON SW 20TH AVENUE IN KENSINGTON NORTHBLACK SHIHTZUPLEASE CALL 352-213-1694 WITH INFO    10-13-16-5-25
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYGet the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 16 Health Services 24 Pets
 21 EntertainmentFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Cross country runner Lauren 
Perry battled a string of illnesses to keep her running career alive.  
Read the story in tomorrow's paper.Florida tight end named to award watch list
DeAndre Goolsby, Florida's starting tight end, was named to the John 
Mackey Award Midseason Watch List, the committee announced Thursday. The award is given annually to the best tight end in college football. By Ray Boone
Sports Writer
No. 9 Florida has been one of the most 
dominant teams in the Southeastern Con-
ference this season.
Out of their four SEC wins, the Gators 
(14-2, 4-1 SEC) have dropped just two sets —  3-1 victories over Ole Miss and Tennes-see.
On the year, the Gators, who travel to 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to face the LSU 
Tigers on Friday, have swept nine of their 
opponents.But it isn’t enough.The focus remains not on the present, 
but on what awaits the team in December.
“I think that’s a good thing when you 
look at the results,” UF outside hitter Shai-
nah Joseph said, “but I think what’s most 
important to look at is if we’re doing the things that we need to do to get ready for the NCAA Tournament.”
So far, they are — on offense and on de-
fense.
Through much of the season, Florida has 
been a dual-threat team, shutting down op-ponents with both superior offensive skill and physical defense.
On the offensive side, the Gators’ .332 
hitting percentage ranks them first in the 
SEC. 
In addition, their 13.35 assists per set 
and 14.19 kills per set rank first and second 
in the conference, respectively.
Much of that can be attributed to the 
play of hitters Alex Holston and Carli Sny-der.
Holston leads the team with 198 kills. 
Snyder is not far behind, tallying 193 kills 
on the year. 
On the other side, Florida’s defense has 
been a nightmare for opposing offenses.Surging Gators keeping one eye on NCAAsMax Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Coach Mary Wise, right, talks with her team during a time out during Florida's win over Marshall in the Lemerand Center on Sept. 17.
FOOTBALL
By Patrick Pinak
Sports Writer
Jalen Tabor remembers the home-
coming embarrassment two years ago. 
Florida’s star cornerback watched 
from the sideline during Missouri’s Mar-
cus Murphy’s 96-yard kickoff return on 
the first play of the game.
He remembers Murphy’s punt re-
turn, Markus Golden’s fumble return 
and Darvin Ruise’s interception — all 
which went for Mizzou touchdowns. 
And above all, he can’t forget how 
quarterback Maty Mauk threw for just 
20 yards in Missouri’s 42-13 thumping of the Gators at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium in 2014. 
“That was just embarrassing how we 
came out,” Tabor said. “I mean, jeesh.”
Now, Tabor and the rest of Florida’s 
football team have extra incentive to avenge that ugly and disappointing loss. 
For one, national critics like Clay 
Travis of Fox Sports called the Gators scared and accused them of using Hur-ricane Matthew to dodge LSU.
And plain and simple, UF hasn’t 
looked like the SEC-Championship-Game-caliber team it wants to be over its last six quarters of football. 
Even Steve Spurrier will talk to the 
team today about the importance of this game.
“We’re coming out trying to make a 
statement, especially offensively,” run-ning back Jordan Scarlett said. “Just to show everybody in the SEC that we’re coming to play no matter who it is. We’re just trying to take care of busi-ness.”
It’ll also help tremendously that 
quarterback Luke Del Rio is returning this weekend. The redshirt sophomore led Florida’s offense to more than 30 points and 450 yards per game before Florida 
hoping for revenge
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
With only four regular-season 
games remaining, No. 17 Florida (10-3, 
Southeastern Conference 5-2) will face its biggest test of the season Sunday: taking on No. 2 South Carolina on the road.
The Gamecocks (13-0-1, 7-0 SEC) 
are riding a 13-game win streak, which matches a school record.The Gators travel to Columbia with 
a four-game winning streak of their own on the line.
“I have definitely seen some growth 
over the past four games, but still a lot of room left to grow,” UF coach Becky Burleigh said on Wednesday.
 “Obviously we are going to face a 
really, really good South Carolina team and we’re excited about that because it will give us an opportunity to see where we are.”
The Gamecocks, who own the top 
winning percentage in Division I  wom-en's soccer (.964), have only trailed for 85 seconds the whole season. 
They've also given up just two goals Soccer team looking for growth vs. No. 2 South CarolinaFlorida is 14-2 and 4-1 in SEC
Burleigh
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15 SEE VOLLEY,  PAGE 15
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15The Gamecocks haven't lostTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
missing the last two games with a sprained ACL. 
Scarlett said having Del Rio back helps him 
because he forces opposing defensive backs to 
account for receivers instead of playing the run. He also said Del Rio is more comfortable with the offense than backup Austin Appleby.
“Luke takes a little bit of load off my shoul-
ders. He has everybody in command,” Scarlett said. 
“He’s like a general. He calms everybody down in tough situations and brings us all to-gether.”
But even with Del Rio back, Florida should 
look to the ground game for success.
Missouri surrendered 418 rushing yards two 
weeks ago to an LSU offense that was missing an injured Leonard Fournette. 
That game alone has Scarlett and the rest of 
UF’s backs salivating. 
“They did a really good job of running the ball 
against them,” Scarlett said of LSU’s attack ver-sus Missouri. “I feel like we have better backs and we can get the job done.”
While Missouri is important for the Gators to 
bounce back, it’s also pivotal for UF’s chances at going to the SEC Championship Game in Atlanta. 
The rest of its conference games are, too.
And Tabor is aware.
“You know whoever wins in Atlanta will be in 
the Final Four, unless you have two losses,” he said. “Everything is in front of us.”
@pinakk12
ppinak@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg. 14Game against Missouri is pivotal for UF 's title chances
against SEC opponents.
Much of their success is a credit 
to South Carolina’s own Savan-
nah, junior forward Savannah  Mc-Caskill.
McCaskill has 11 goals on the 
season, just one less than the Gators’ leader on offense, Savan-nah Jordan (12).
“(McCaskill’s) a really good 
player, she’s dangerous because she’s all over the field, she’s quick, she’s creative,” Burleigh said. 
“We look at her as somebody 
that really is key for them, but I also don’t want to minimize the supporting cast she has around her, because I think she’s got a good group.”
But the Gators are a team that  
proved over its last few games that it can present problems to oppo-nents on offense.
Jordan, the SEC Offensive Play-
er of the Week, scored twice in each of the team's last two matches against both Georgia and Ole Miss.
She leads the SEC with her 12 
goals and 31 points. But she isn’t doing it alone.During Florida’s 3-0 win at Ole 
Miss on Sunday, senior midfielder 
Pamela Begic had a goal of her 
own, her second overall on the 
season.
“We always have two goals in 
every game, which is have more 
than 500 passes with 80 percent 
completion rate,” Begic said. 
“So if we meet those goals we 
have high chances of winning. We 
just need to focus on us. That’s al-ways the emphasis. Play our soc-cer, do what we’re good at and de-molish them.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 14Savannah Jordan leads the SEC with 12 goals and 31 points.Led by lengthy middle block-
ers Rhamat Alhassan and Rachael 
Kramer in the frontcourt and the 
high-energy libero Caroline Knop 
in the back row, the Gators pos-sess one of the most physical de-fenses in the country. 
Florida leads the SEC in blocks 
per set (2.91) and is ranked sec-ond in opponent hitting percent-age (.166). 
Alhassan, who averages 1.4 
blocks per set, and Kramer, who averages 1.26 blocks per set, rank in the top four in the conference in the category. 
“They are some tall glasses of 
water,” Snyder said of the 6-foot-4 and 6-foot-8 middle blockers. “Just the intimidation factor alone … they are so tall, which is 
really scary for other teams.”
However, Florida's early focus 
on the NCAA Tournament, Sny-
der said the team is still ready 
for the teams it has to face in the 
present. 
“We have to do our part on 
serving, defense to show how good of a defensive team we 
are,” she said.
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org VOLLEY,  from pg 14Gators lead 
conference in blocks per set
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Jalen T abor (31) wants to forget UF's 42-13 home loss to Missouri two years ago. "That was embarrassing how we came out, " T abor said.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Pamela Begic (22) dribbles down the field during Florida's 3-2 win over UCF on Sept. 18 at James G. 
Pressly Stadium. "We just need to focus on us, " Begic said. " ... do what we're good at and demolish them. "
TOP-RANKED TASK:
• What : No. 17 Florida @ 
No.  2 South Carolina
• When : Sunday @ 3 p.m.
• Where to watch : SEC 
Network16   ALLIGATOR   THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2016
1
1312111098765432
  
   
HAPPY HOUR EVERDAY
5 p.m. to 7 p.m. · $4 Martinis on Wednesdays
Visit us for the finest in pan asian faire. Aged angus, fresh sushi 
and an atmosphere that will keep you coming back for more!LUNCH
Tu - Fri 11:30 - 3 p.m.
Sun 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.DINNER
Sun - Thu 5 - 10 p.m.
Fri - Sat 5 - 11 p.m.
   
  
 NNW 3rd St
SE 1st St
NE 3rd StSW 3rd StSW 2nd Ave
SW 5th AveSE 1st Ave
SW 1st AveManuel’s 
Vintage 
Room
Hippodrome
SUN
CENTERSE 2nd Ave
SE 2nd PlNW 2nd St SW 2nd St
SW 1st St
S Main St N Main St
E University Ave
Daily
GreenLiquid
Ginger
SE 2nd St