We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 96 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
Florida gymnastics travel to 
face No. 11 Georgia tonight
The Gators are undefeated, pg. 13
Marijuana detector being developed at UF
UF researchers have partnered with a technology company, pg. 5
Florida football team hires new defensive backs coach
Gray held the same position at Virginia T ech for 10 years, pg. 16Feature Friday
Check out the photos and graphics 
for our story on the Counseling and Wellness Center, pgs. 8-9
THE SUPREME COURT 
APPROVED THE 
AMENDMENT.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
Cheers erupted in a crowded 
room of about 60 students after 
UF’s Supreme Court ruled to al-low an amendment for online vot-ing to appear on the Spring 2016 election ballot Thursday night.
The Supreme Court posted a 
notice of the meeting to discuss the amendment Wednesday on the Student Government bulletin board. The ballot for SG’s Spring election must be ﬁ  nalized today.
The amendment was sent to 
UF’s Elections Commission Jan. 27 to review the summary of the amendment that will appear above it on the ballot. At that meeting, the commission voted to strike the phrase “including online students, PaCE students, Innovation Acad-emy students, and study abroad students” from the summary.
Kelly Scurry, associate justice 
ﬁ  ve, said he supported the deci-sion to strike the phrase from the summary.“In addition to having these 
groups of students listed, it could create an additional problem later on if there are other classes of stu-dents that were to arise,” he said.
In an email to Global Vote on Jan. 27, Chief Justice Andy Schein wrote “All, You are good to go for the Elections Commission tonight. The Supreme Court will only look at the initiative if there is an unan-Online voting set for ballot
SEE ONLINE,  PAGE 4By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
For the third time since mid-
January, an unknown man ex-
posed his penis to a woman in 
the Norman Hall Parking Garage, 
located near sorority row.
University Police and 
Gainesville Police have increased 
patrols around the area, said 
UPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Wayne Clark.
At about 11:30 a.m. Wednes-
day, the woman, who attends UF, entered the garage’s south-
west stairwell and saw a man 
masturbating, Clark said.
He was wearing a grey shirt 
and shorts, high-top sneakers 
and a chain necklace, Clark said.
The man did not assault the 
woman or speak to her, and he 
ran after being spotted, Clark 
said.
“Every single time, he has 
left the area before we could get 
there,” he said.UPD thinks Wednesday’s 
suspect is the same man who 
exposed himself to two other 
women on Jan. 6 and Jan. 14, Clark said.
Police sent an email to UF stu-
dents, faculty and staff alerting 
them about the incident.
All incidents involve a man 
masturbating in the garage’s 
southwest stairwell, Clark said.
The incidents also occurred in 
the middle of the week, between about 11:30 a.m. and 2 p.m., Clark added.
Since December, GPD has re-
sponded to six similar cases of indecent exposure near North-west 13th Street, just north of campus.
Due to similar descriptions 
and methods, both departments may be dealing with the same man, GPD spokesman Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.orgSuspected serial 
masturbator strikes backCRIMEBy Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
Sarah Potter knows when she’s losing con-
trol.
Sometimes, it’s just for minutes. Other 
times, it’s hours.
But the symptoms are always the same: 
Her throat tightens. Her eyes water. Her hands 
shake.
And she’s powerless until it’s over.
The physical effects of insecurity and insta-
bility the UF food science and human nutrition junior had struggled with since she was 10 re-
ceived a diagnosis when she was 17: an anxiety 
disorder.
Medication and therapy kept it under con-
trol until the 21-year-old decided she was ﬁ  ne and stopped taking a single Prozac pill each day.
But three months later, a suicide joke cou-
pled with the lingering stress of school triggered another attack.“I think everything just kind of hit me all at 
once,” she said.
Without enough time to reach out to her 
old therapist in Pensacola, the then-sophomore turned to the Counseling and Wellness Center at UF. She began to see a counselor every other week, and they worked together to help her overcome her past and build a future.
But Potter soon became one of several UF 
students who left the center because long-term care wasn’t feasible with its current funding. With more students requesting mental health 
services, the CWC is struggling to provide the 
consistency and stability its clients need for more than a semester.
It’s a limitation Potter feels is upsetting.“It’s too small to actually help really any-
body,” she said.  
      
Financial restrictions are nothing new to the 
staff at the CWC.In 2010, the counseling center merged with 
the former Student Mental Health Center due to budget cuts, according to Alligator archives. 
The combined centers and GatorWell moved 
into a new building on the intersection of Radio Road and Bledsoe Drive, near the Southwest Recreation Center.
But each semester, the demand on the 32 
clinicians and therapists inside continues to grow — a demand that ﬁ  nancially cannot be met. During the ﬁ  rst week of school this Fall, the counseling center had 518 appointments. 
Nine weeks later, in the last week of October, 
they had 990 appointments.
Ernesto Escoto, the center’s director, said 
the CWC has done its best to accommodate the needs of students. Staff meetings — instrumen-tal for discussing protocol, concerns and goals — have been cut to ensure the staff is able to provide students with an average of six to sev-en individual sessions with a therapist.
“Most counseling centers are struggling 
with this,” he said. “I do believe that we will need to increase resources. It’ll be absolutely necessary, because I suspect that our demand will continue to increase.”
Jennifer Stuart, who has worked as a psy-
chologist for the past seven years at the center, said counselors spend about 60 percent of their time with students. The rest of the time, they balance attending committee meetings, super-vising interns and ﬁ  lling out paperwork.
The hardest part, Stuart said, is having 
students come in during midterms and ﬁ  nals when stress is at its highest. With limited re-
sources, the counselors have to decide how to 
best serve students without knowing what cli-ents will come in tomorrow.
“There’s no physical way for us to provide 
all the care for the students who walk through the door using individual therapy only,” she said.
Last Fall, Escoto submitted a budget request 
increase to the UF Fee Committee. A 20-cent The Struggle Within
Max Chesnes / Alligator
A crowd waits in Room 2103 in the new Reitz Union to hear UF’s 
Supreme Court confer on the online voting article.
SEE CWC,  PAGE 8A counseling center’s battle to meet increasing demandsSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Free English and Citizenship 
classes offered to community
Free English classes are offered every Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., and free citizen-
ship classes are offered every 
Thursday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at Millhopper Library. For more information, email info@latinawomensleague.org or visit latinawomensleague.org.
Harn Museum Writing 
Competition: Words on Canvas
Words on Canvas is a yearly writ-
ing competition at the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art for college students interested in inspiring museumgoers by writing po-etry or prose connected with a work of art. All UF and Santa Fe College students are welcome to participate. Winning contestants 
will be awarded Harn merchan-
dise and students may submit until Feb. 21. Entry is simple and free of charge. For more informa-tion, please visit our website at harn.ufl.edu/wordsoncanvas.
Friday Program at Krishna House
Come and attend this week’s 
Friday Program at the Krishna 
House to learn about the “Impact of Association.” The program starts at 7 p.m. with Mantra Meditation followed by an ice- breaker session and Talk on the Topic. Dinner will be served at 8:15 p.m. Make every week com-plete with eternal knowledge 
by attending Friday programs at 
Krishna House. No registration required. Come directly at 7 p.m. Please join us at Krishna House, 214 NW 14th St.
Six-hundred gather to learn CPR 
in largest ever mass CPR train-ing event
More than 600 people will con-
verge in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Saturday to learn CPR. UF’s GatorSavers is host-ing its fifth annual GatorSavers: $5 CPR and blood drive. Since February 2012, GatorSavers has certified close to 3,000 people in this annual event. This year’s 
event is planning to CPR-certify 
600 people in the American Heart Association’s Adult CPR/AED during three different ses-sions: 9:30 a.m., noon and 2:30 p.m.
There’s No Debate About 
Consent!
Join UF’s Sexual Trauma 
Interpersonal Violence Education for Consent Week for opportuni-ties to learn and talk about what consent is, what it isn’t, and how to navigate uncertainties. Come to the Reitz Union today from 9 p.m. to midnight to play Consent Jeopardy at GatorNights. On Tuesday, we will be hosting a panel of experts for “Loud & Queer Consent” in the Ustler 
Hall Atrium from 6 to 8 p.m. 
On Thursday, you can find us hosting Cupid’s Consent Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. There will be games and prizes, not to mention opportunities to win exclusive STRIVE prize packs and Consent 2016 T-Shirts!  
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alligator.org. To ensure publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 96
HIGH  59° LOW  39°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Maria Bonaventura, Jessica Gonzalez,   
  David Hoffman, Kristine    
  Janata, Michael Smith, Joshua   
  Warner, Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Richie Caudill, 
  Joseph Fitzgerald, Christian Mayorga,   
  Rodrigo Noguerol, Caroline Rhoades,   
  Isabella Rodriguez, Cameron Wallace
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa Puello
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
swerable question at the EC level or if the 
decision is appealed.”
The Elections Commission did not have 
any unanswered questions, and the deci-sion was not appealed at the Jan. 27 meet-ing.
Schein confirmed he sent the email but 
said he found there might be discrepancies between the Student Body constitution and the SG statutes.
Global Vote started a petition in October 
to put an online voting option on the ballot. According to the constitution, the petition needed 2,500 signatures. It received more than 3,000.
After the signatures are verified and the 
Elections Commission passes the summary, the amendment goes to UF’s supervisor of elections for inclusion on the ballot, accord-ing to the constitution. 
This is subject to the review of the Su-
preme Court.But UF’s constitution and codes contra-
dict each other.
“Internet Online Voting is unconstitu-
tional and may not be utilized in Student Government elections,” according to sec-tion 700.4 of the constitution’s 700 codes.
In section 771.4, it reads “Secure loca-
tion online voting is legal and may be uti-lized in Student Government elections.”
In 2008, the court ruled online voting 
unconstitutional, but Schein said the con-stitution overrules the codes.
Evan Malloy, associate justice three, 
said the Supreme Court shouldn’t look at the constitutionality of the amendment at Thursday’s meeting. Amendments to the constitution could contradict the constitu-tion itself.
“I don’t think that is our role, and I think 
the 2008 case might have been standing out-side the batter’s box, if you will,” he said.
@ceostroff 
costroff@alligator.org4   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
WAITING IN THE RAIN
Sebastian Betancur, a UF electrical engineering junior, waits under his umbrella for a bus outside Rawl-ings Hall on Thursday. Despite Thursday’s rain, the weather today and this weekend will be cooling down and partly cloudy with highs in the 60s and lows in the mid-30s.
CAMPUS
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
Women starting their own 
companies will have more space 
at UF’s Innovation Hub.
The Innovation Hub, located 
on Southwest Second Avenue, 
will begin construction on a 
Women’s Entrepreneurial Center in late Spring, wrote Jane Muir, the director of the Innovation Hub, in an email. 
In addition to the center, the 
55,000-square-foot facility will in-clude a new office space and labs.
Muir said construction should 
be complete by the end of 2017.
To fund the construction, the 
Innovation Hub received an $8 million grant from the U.S. Eco-nomic Development Administra-tion for the project, she said. 
UF donated an additional $9 
million.
She said the Women’s Entre-
preneurial Center will encourage women to form their own compa-nies.
“Women lag far behind men in 
the rate and frequency at which they start up new companies,” Muir said. “For the U.S. economy to grow and produce jobs at an accelerated rate, women must be-
come a much higher percentage of 
entrepreneurial leaders across all business segments.”
She said the Innovation Hub, 
which was opened in 2012, cre-ated about 760 jobs in Gainesville in its first three and a half years. The space is at capacity with its current startups.
“We are basically operating at 
capacity, and while there are al-ways companies moving in and out, we cannot meet the current demand for space,” she said.
Yatit Thakker, the CEO of 
Omninox Publishing, said he moved his educational software company into the Innovation Hub in Summer 2013. He said he’s ex-cited for the expansion.
“It’s a place where a lot of key 
people in the Florida ecosystem are,” the 24-year-old said.
In addition to office space, the 
Innovation Hub has given him ac-cess to mentors and resources to help his company grow.
He said he has noticed a higher 
demand for office space in the building.
“More recently, I think there’s 
pretty much a waiting list,” Thak-
ker said.
Jonathan Katz, a UF finance se-
nior, works on his app, Qwerk, at 
the hub with four other students.
Katz said the office’s location 
has helped his startup meet and learn from professional mentors.
“It’s a totally different social 
circle,” the 21-year-old said. “It’s 
totally different than going to col-
lege and just seeing students every day. It’s a professional setting.”
He said the Women’s Entre-
preneurial Center will be a way to empower women who are starting companies.
“I think it’s great that they’re 
encouraging women to get into 
the entrepreneurial sector,” Katz 
said. “There shouldn’t be a di-vide that there’s more men than women.” 
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgInnovation Hub to 
expand, add Women's Entrepreneurial Center
ALCOHOL IS NOT 
ALLOWED, BUT THAT 
COULD CHANGE.
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville city commissioners 
adopted a new ordinance Thursday 
night that allows cycle pubs to roam the streets.
The ordinance removed a four-
passenger limit on non-motorized vehicles, and man-powered “pedi-buses” will soon take up to 10 pas-sengers on tours, Mayor pro tempore Craig Carter said.
Currently, alcohol is not allowed 
on the vehicles, but Carter said it may become a possibility in the near future.Companies such as The Spins will 
take its pedaling passengers to brew-eries, pubs and restaurants, along with a guided history tour through downtown Gainesville, according to a company presentation.
Casey Dean, a 25-year-old UF 
psychiatric-mental health nurse prac-titioner doctoral student, said the at-
traction would be even better with 
ghost tours.
“I think it’s great that Gainesville 
has a young population to make something like this successful,” he said.
Proposed stops on the tour in-
clude First Magnitude Brewing Com-pany, Tall Paul’s Brew House, the 
Hippodrome State Theatre, City Hall 
and Bo Diddley Plaza, according to the presentation.  
“It’s just another amenity to add excellence to our city, and it doesn’t cost us a penny,” Carter said.
One of the pedibuses is already in 
Gainesville, awaiting the recent deci-sion, he said.
Though each cycle pub has safety 
features, such as seat belts and turn signals, riders will be required to sign a liability waiver, according to the 
presentation. Cycle pubs are also re-
quired to have $2 million liability in-surance. Carter said he doesn’t drink, but party proposals remain for those who do.
“Some people suggested that the 
city commission get on the cycle pub to test it out, put a kegger of beer in the middle and solve the world’s 
problems,” Carter said.
@Mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.orgCycle pubs to roam Gainesville streets
A petition for online voting was started in October by Global Vote
Max Chesnes / Alligator 
Associate Justice Evan Malloy (left) reviews the online voting legislation with 
Associate Justice Joseph Lancos on Thursday night in the Reitz Union.ONLINE,  from pg 1FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE GROUP AIMS TO 
RAISE $45,000.
By Kristen Solórzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students are raising money to help peo-
ple with heart disease.
Gators for The Children’s Heart Founda-
tion will host its second annual Gainesville 
Congenital Heart Walk on April 16 on Flavet 
Field. The event aims to fund heart-defect 
research and educate the community about heart disease.
Last year, the walk raised $36,000. This 
year, their goal is $45,000. The group started fundraising Oct. 8 and has raised $925 as of press time.
Rachel Sharp, a 21-year-old UF history se-
nior, said she started the event last year with 
her friend Isabella Camacho. Sharp said they 
did the walk because Camacho’s brother has congenital heart disease.
UF’s is the first college group to do a Con-genital Heart Walk, Sharp said. 
“All funds go directly to The Children’s 
Heart Foundation and the Adult Congenital Heart Association to combat congenital heart disease,” Sharp said. “It’s a very important cause because one in 100 babies are born with 
a CHD.”
Sophia Young, a UF marketing freshman, 
said she attended the event last year and is 
going to be a team captain this year.
“I’m personally driven because my sister 
had a form of it,” the 18-year-old said.
She said her sister has atrial septal defect, a 
type of heart defect.
Cassie Schuster, a UF biology sophomore 
and vice president of Gators for The Chil-dren’s Heart Foundation, said she wants to make the event for all ages.
“Last year, there were two caricatures 
who dressed up as Anna and Elsa from from ‘Frozen,’ face painting, a warm-up with yoga instructor before the dance, as well as sports kids could play,” the 19-year-old said. “This year, we are going to bring more energy and 
excitement.”UF group raises money for 
children with heart defects By Kristen Solórzano
Alligator Contributing Writer
A technology company is work-
ing with UF researchers to create a 
Breathalyzer-like device to detect marijuana use.    
Richard Yost, a UF chemistry 
professor and the head of UF’s Analytical Chemistry Division, got a patent about five years ago for his high-field asymmetric wave-form ion mobility spectrometer, a device that measures what a per-son has consumed through his or her breath. 
Cannabix Technologies Inc. 
contacted the professor last Fall about adjusting his idea to test for marijuana.
To find if someone has smoked 
marijuana, the device would detect traces of THC, the active ingredient of cannabis.The Yost Research Group, 
which the professor heads, is com-posed of several graduate students, 
he said. He doesn’t know how long 
it will take to create.
Yost said he hopes the device, 
when made, will help police.
“I doubt that it will be directly 
marketed to consumers,” Yost wrote in an email.
Yost also said the marijuana de-
tector could help with early detec-
tion of fatal diseases, such as lung 
cancer.
Alexandria Hernandez, a UF 
chemistry sophomore, said she is excited to work on the device.
“I think it’s a cool invention that 
has been in the works for a while,” the 19-year-old said. “They found a way to minimize error and have 
better accuracy. This will definitely 
advance our society for the better and have people be safer.”Marijuana detector 
being developed at UF
By Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writer
The Florida House of Representatives 
passed two bills Wednesday evening that 
would allow registered gun owners to openly carry firearms, including on uni-versity campuses.
House Bill 163 would allow people to 
carry guns on state college campuses. It passed the Judiciary committee Wednes-day by a vote of 80-38. House Bill 4001 would allow for open carry throughout Florida. It passed the Judiciary committee Wednesday by a vote of 80-37.
However, Lee-Ford Tritt, a professor at 
the UF Levin College of Law, said people 
opposed to the bill have nothing to worry 
about.
Last year, Florida’s House passed the 
same campus-carry bill, he said. It went through the Senate process and died on second reading.
For either bill to become a law, they 
will both need to pass through three com-mittees in the Senate before going to the governor for his signature.
Daniel Smith, a political science pro-
fessor at UF, said representatives pushed 
the bill to the Senate because they know it 
won’t go further.
“They can get the kudos of the NRA 
(National Rifle Association) without the fallout of concerned citizens,” he said.
Jill Guidera, 31, is the president of UF 
law’s American Constitution Society for Law and Policy chapter.
She said the bills are unsettling.
“Schools are supposed to be protected 
from this,” she said.
Gabriel Mondry, a 20-year-old Jewish 
studies junior, said 45 other states passed 
open carry. 
The only reason the bills haven’t 
passed, he said, is because the Senate re-fuses to hear them.
“People are already carrying guns on 
campus illegally,” he said. “I don’t think anything will change. It will happen any-way.”
@Mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgTwo gun bills pass Florida House 
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
Police say couple stole more than 
$6,000 from dead woman 
A woman and her boyfriend were arrested 
Wednesday after Gainesville Police said the 
couple cashed in on a dead woman’s check-books.
On Dec. 28, Lakisha Salane Bryant, 33, 
made a $200 withdrawal at the Bank of Amer-ica on Northwest 13th Street, according to a police report. 
By late January, Bryant and her boyfriend, 
Derick Bryan Sawyer, 38, took $6,600 as she forged the signature of a woman she cared for as a home aid, according to the report. Bry-ant and Sawyer cashed in a total of 33 checks, each for $200. Hazel Jones Cuddeback, the 
woman whose checkbook police would later find in Bryant’s purse, passed away in Novem-
ber at the age of 94, according to the report.
When police found Bryant on Wednesday, 
she told them Cuddeback would want to take care of her, and what she did was not a crime, according to the report. 
Cuddeback’s daughter eventually received 
a fraud alert, according to the report.
Police arrested Bryant and Sawyer on 
charges of grand theft, fraud and uttering a forged instrument. Bryant was also charged 
with forgery. Authorities took the two to the 
Alachua County Jail where Bryant was re-leased on her own recognizance Thursday, and where Sawyer remains, as of press time, 
in lieu of a $42,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloGainesville man bites Wal-Mart worker, police say 
Gainesville Police arrested a man Wednes-
day morning after they said he bit a Wal-Mart 
employee in late January.
At about noon on Jan. 28, Hykeem Dab-
reon Johnson, 27, tried to steal from the Wal-
Mart on Northwest 23rd Street and later fought 
with an employee, according to a police report.
Wal-Mart employees told police they saw 
Johnson enter the store, pick up two $60 boxes of hair clippers and walk to customer service, according to the report.
Although Johnson never paid for either 
box, he told employees at customer service he wanted to exchange one for the other, ac-
cording to the report. Johnson completed his exchange and walked outside, where employ-
ees then asked him to go to Wal-Mart’s loss-
prevention office, according to the report.
When he refused, one of the employees 
grabbed his wrist while the other held him 
from behind, according to the report.
Johnson and one of the employees then fell 
to the ground as they fought, and Johnson bit the employee’s left hand before running away, according to the report.
Police found Johnson on Wednesday at 
about 10 a.m. and arrested him on charges of resisting merchant detainment and simple battery. Authorities took him to the Alachua County Jail where, as of press time, he re-mains in lieu of a $5,000 bond.
- Martin VassoloEmma Green / Alligator Staff
WEATHER YOU LIKE IT
Eryn Hall (left) walks toward Weimer Hall in the rain on Thursday afternoon. The 19-year-old envi-
ronmental engineering sophomore said of the weather, “I’m not one of the people who loves the rain. I think it’s kind of depressing. ”
STATEThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
Sanders’ Iowa performance sends a message
As of Monday, Iowans wrapped up the 
ﬁ  rst stage of the presidential election — the ﬁ  rst bit of the process that isn’t merely grandstanding. These are hard numbers, numbers that matter: num-
bers representing real human beings who will appoint each party’s candidate.
The Iowa caucuses carried a lot of sur-
prises for such an important event, an inter-esting fact considering these results actually carry weight. For one, Trump didn’t win. The ﬁ  rst tangible setback in his campaign prompted a sigh of relief from the many decent Americans whose political preferences don’t fall under “authoritarian windbag.” It 
was Ted Cruz who snagged victory out of the hands of Il 
Douche. But Cruz is, in many ways, far more terrifying than Trump. Forget about his bloodthirsty, reactionary politics: Everyone who knows him on a personal level ﬁ  nds him absolutely insufferable. Everyone thinks he’s a huge jerk: his college roommate, or anyone who worked on George W. Bush’s 2000 campaign, and — going off body language — his own immediate family members. 
The biggest surprise of the caucuses came from the 
democrats. A race that, a year ago, was effectively un-contested in favor of Hillary Clinton isn’t just competitive anymore. Hillary lost nearly half the democrats in Iowa to a decidedly un-sexy socialist Jew from a state we all associate with trees and Phish-themed ice cream. The votes were so close that, in a few districts, the decision was literally made with a coin toss. Bernie Sanders’ suc-cess in Iowa was a fantastic feat: This time last year, he was polling at 7 percent in Iowa. Going from there to 
a few coin tosses shy of exactly half is impressive and 
speaks to the massive faults that lie in the Democratic Party.
Even before Iowa, Sanders’ popularity had the demo-
cratic establishment worried. Now they’re in a full-on panic, which brings me unbridled joy. Democratic Na-tional Committee elites and the center-left establishment are scrambling, looking for a way to undermine Sanders before his campaign does any more danger to their anointed candidate. In their desperation, they’ve turned to that favored tactic of whis-key-soaked chauvinists: red-baiting. True, this is an obvious move given Sanders doesn’t 
cower from the label “socialist.” But it’s reach-
ing surreal levels: A pro-Clinton PAC tried tying their political rival with communists, dredging up a Cold War ploy that should’ve been buried along with Brezhnev. One of my colleagues compared Sanders to the Khmer 
Rouge. When I read that column, my eye roll was almost as dramatic as that McCarthyist jab. Yes, let’s compare Bernie “welfare expansion and campaign ﬁ  nance re-
form” Sanders to a gang of psychopaths who murdered 
anyone who owned a pair of glasses and smashed little kids’ faces against trees for picking berries. That doesn’t sound desperate in the least. 
Of course, chances are Bernie probably won’t be sit-
ting in the Oval Ofﬁ  ce next year, even though his popu-larity soars nationwide. As I’ve said before, he’ll prob-ably get assassinated long before he becomes President Sanders, and that likelihood grows daily. If people react-
ed with such slanderous vitriol against a black center-left 
moderate in 2008-2016, imagine what’d happen if an AC-TUAL socialist ever came within grasp of the presidency. 
I still support Sanders, not just as a presidential can-
didate, but as a symbol of a movement. Through him, America’s disenchanted and disenfranchised are sending a message to Republicans and Democrats and the oli-garchs who’ve legally controlled both parties since 2010. Sanders gives a much-needed restoration of hope — hope 
that evaporated with the dreams of Obama’s ﬁ  rst cam-
paign and was stamped out in anyone who held his or her nose long enough to vote Charlie Crist only to end up with Rick Scott. The democrats can’t hold us hostage with the threat of GOP victory anymore — Hillary has to earn my vote now, rather than collect it. 
Alec Carver is a UF history junior. His column ap-
pears on Fridays.Friday: Great day of the week, or greatest? Friday is the 
day the shackles of the 9-to-5 workday are temporarily lifted 
from our weary limbs, and we are free to do whatever craft, 
hedonistic activity or rejuvenating escape we see ﬁ  t to pur-sue. It is also, of course, the day we run Darts & Laurels, which is not only our gift to the city of Gainesville, but 
presents a weekly opportunity for us to work through our 
unresolved and conﬂ  icted feelings on the events that trans-pired during the week. With that far too confessional and revealing introduction out of the way, it’s time for… 
Darts & Laurels
When we on the Alligator editorial board began our ten-
ure, we had no idea that former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush  
would become such a ﬁ  xture in Darts & Laurels. The under-
achiever of the Bush family dynasty has consistently pro-
vided us with fodder for this segment of the paper, and for that we’re grateful. But at what cost have we thrived off of Jebby’s regular humiliation and faux pas?
In preparation for the forthcoming New Hampshire pri-
mary, Bush gave a speech Tuesday at the Hanover Inn, which is located on Dartmouth College’s campus. After delivering a speech touting his ability to compromise and act as an effective leader, Bush was met with a deafening 
silence from the crowd. He then asked the crowd to “please 
clap.” Although they acquiesced to his request, it was up-setting to think about and even more painful to watch.
Unlikely though it may be — this is, after all, the man 
who gave weight to the FCAT — we feel bad for Jeb. It must be miserable to have served as a governor and belong to a family that has twice assumed the American presidency only to be trounced in the polls by narcissistic reality televi-sion stars and slimy evangelicals. A Laurel to Gov. Bush  
for keeping a stiff upper lip; keep on keepin’ on, Jebby. 
Speaking of the FCAT, standardized tests are just the 
worst, are we right? Speaking bluntly, they’re wildly mis-guided, a poor use of teachers’ precious time and place un-
due stress on students who have difﬁ  culty with that manner 
of assessment. 
With those thoughts in mind, we were pleased to hear 
John B. King Jr., the U.S. Acting Secretary of Education, thinks so, too. In a video announcement Tuesday, King 
called for the streamlining and rehauling of the myriad tests 
our nation’s K-12 students take each year. For exhibiting 
common sense and making moves – however small – to ﬁ  x the undeniably broken, King gets a Laurel. 
It was only a matter of time, but the mosquito-borne 
Zika virus, which has been linked to microcephaly in new-borns, has made its way to Florida from Central America. On both Wednesday and Thursday, Gov. Scott declared a state of emergency in ﬁ  ve counties where the virus has been 
detected. Meanwhile, despite the fact that tourism to the 
country is what enabled this epidemic to spread in the ﬁ  rst place, authorities in Brazil have maintained the Rio Olym-pics will not be canceled or accordingly adjusted in any 
way.
We don’t even know where to begin with this one — do 
we criticize the terrifying virus (which we have now learned 
can be transmitted sexually), or the potentially more fright-ening government ofﬁ  cials who are seemingly prioritizing 
tourism revenue over pregnant women and unborn chil-
dren? Darts all around. In all seriousness, readers, please 
stay safe and remain aware of your own health.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Alec Carver
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
As the first wave of ex-
ams arrives just in time to slug every UF 
student’s grades, time 
and sleep habits, now 
seems as good a time as any to mention it may be time to slow 
down. 
It’s not difficult to spot a 
university exam season as it is 
happening. Although my Introduction to Statistics 1 class taught me correlation 
does not equate to causation, I’m going to 
go out on a limb here and say the lack of empty tables in UF libraries might have to do with how many exams students have 
found themselves bombarded with this 
week. 
And as you, reader, scorn the very ex-
istence of your professors as you anxious-ly avoid studying by reading this paper, 
crumpling it underneath your clammy, 
nervous hands, I recommend taking a moment to stop worrying how you might fail in the coming week or how you might 
have failed in the past week.
Mainly because you will. Fortunately, 
this is inevitable.
And as your Wi-Fi connection in Mar-
ston Science Library or Library West slows to a pace unsuitable for sloths, I’d 
like you to consider how normal this is, or how you’re not quite alone in what a classmate described to me as feeling 
“drawn and quartered by life at the mo-
ment.” 
I don’t mean to imply every individual 
is dealing with the same degree of diffi-culty through his or her college days; the 
interior life of another person is unfath-
omable, and I estimate – unscientifically, of course – nearly a third of our lives’ mis-takes comes from assuming otherwise. 
Nevertheless, it’s important to note 
that, when we each make a beeline to our preferred study space, we aren’t entirely alone. 
So, why am I utterly convinced in your 
capacity, dear reader, to fail? Because I think you have before and you’re still here. 
As you mature and your failures seem 
to magnify and become less surmount-able, haven’t you grown as well?
What I meant before about 
the inevitability of you failing was not about a particular test or paper coming up but the pos-sibility of failure in some point 
in the future.
One of my favorite profes-
sors, who is now an associate 
dean in UF’s College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences and from whom I shamelessly 
robbed my column’s thesis, once said, 
“You may fail at a test, a class, a job; a relationship. But you cannot let that deter you in life, because one of these things 
will happen no matter what.”
What I believe she was getting at was 
the fact that success requires grappling 
with a certain level of uncertainty and a continuous goal to improve. And im-
prove, and improve and so forth.
In the meanwhile, I’ll leave you with 
a few temporary personal tips. First, a 
fact that cannot ever be stressed enough: 
Sleep has an extraordinary impact on 
your emotional and mental health. What causes us to lose sleep in rough patches is something science has not adequately figured out. 
But what science has established is 
how a lack of sleep precipitates and exac-erbates particularly rough moments. Seri-ously, try to get what you can.
Second, as a poetry professor once 
pointed out to me, “When I think I’m go-ing to sit down and do work for six hours and get everything done, it never hap-pens. It’s better to do a little at a time. 
And you’d also be surprised at what you 
can get accomplished in what you con-sider waste time: the time you spend walking around campus, waiting for your 
friends to get ready to go out, etc.” 
Third and finally, make time to check 
up on your friends and family. They’re 
your sanity, and also, the temporary — like the doom and gloom of a GPA drop-
ping at terminal velocity — should never 
be able to wedge itself between what you most need.
Neel Bapatla is a UF English sopho-
more. His column appears on Fridays.Failure: It’s inevitable, fortunatelyColumn
A solemn recollection of 
what dominated the head-lines of major tabloids in 2015 and in the last few months reveals a rather 
unpleasant truth that may have eluded some of us: Humanity has taken a thorough beating.
From the relentless women of 
South Sudan to the anachronistic polar bear, the victims of barbarism and witlessness serve as evidence that ethics has taken a back seat in mankind’s assertion of itself on the world.
Fundamentally, ethics requires an innate 
desire for good will and critical thought. Now, while optimism allows me to believe most people aspire to goodness, I cannot in good conscience apply wishful thinking with re-gards to the thoughtfulness, or lack thereof, of the human population. In our own great U.S., stupidity is the ersatz for culture — reigning supreme in the actions of selﬁ  e takers, cultish 
fantasy footballers and Iggy Azalea fans (one 
day we will have a dance, my sweet callipy-gian, cultural appropriator). And while these narcissisms and the idolatry of idiots needs to be recognized as scourges to humanity’s po-tential, they pale in comparison to the most indomitable hindrance to ethical thought: re-ligion. Big, fat, organized Abrahamic religion.
I know what you’re thinking. “Great, an-
other know-it-all college atheist, bravely es-pousing his views via the Alligator.”
First of all, I just want to say: Thank you. I 
am proud to be an atheist. And “brave”? Well, you shouldn’t have. That’s sweet.
But what SHOULD be clear is that my 
point is not to profess my atheism as hav-ing all the answers to life’s biggest questions, like whether there is life after death or how 
many licks it takes to get to the center of a 
Tootsie Pop. Additionally, my atheism should not be equated with nihilism; it is not rooted in pretension nor a desire to be displayed on Facebook by way of thoughtless meme and ill-informed statuses bereft of grammar.
Conversely, I value spirituality. A look to 
the stars without an omnipotent and prescient God in mind does not make me feel inﬁ  nitesi-
mal, but rather hopeful and inspired. A sea of 
inﬁ  nity is right at our doorstep, waiting for us just as soon as we realize our potential. But that potential faces a rather insurmountable roadblock.Abrahamic religion has blinded 
so many of us by ousting the im-portance of knowledge with an ostentatious certainty. In Texas for example, conservative lawmakers 
have won the battle to replace a 
scientiﬁ  cally sound and reasoned curriculum on the genesis of our species with the creationist ideolo-gies of their speciﬁ  c brand of Chris-tianity. A willful ignorance of such 
an important part of science no doubt has a profound effect on those whose minds might have been inspired to discover the next piece 
of our human history. It wouldn’t be surpris-
ing if those affected young minds will now in-stead ﬂ  ock to business school convinced the world is only thousands of years old.
In order for the problems of the world to 
be solved, education is indispensable. Educa-tion is one of the most important vertebrae in the backbone of an ethical approach to life. Having unfettered access to education for all 
people is necessary for the forward progress of 
our species — IF we actually hope to explore worlds beyond ours and save ourselves from the effects of manmade climate change, it’s our generation’s biggest battle. Yet a look at the subjection of women to little or no educa-tion by strict and rigid practitioners of Islam and Judaism reveals Abrahamic teachings as an incredible oppressor in this respect.
Notwithstanding the indecencies of quell-
ing the spread of knowledge or granting equal-ity for women, it is the doomsday culture of these religions that is the most detrimental to our success as a uniﬁ  ed world. The afterlife often takes precedence for the religiously de-vout politicians in congress and the Levant. Our battle to save our planet from rising sea levels, increasing global temperatures, more 
powerful storms and highly acidic oceans can-
not begin if the philosophy of those in charge is to let Jesus take the wheel and do nothing. Because after all, we’re going to heaven after all of this is through.
Man and woman have to recognize their 
own importance and abandon the idea of a predetermined destiny, especially one that supports the death of ethics and our planet if 
it means appeasing an absent God. In 2016, it 
ought to be humanity’s turn to decide its own fate, not God’s.
Justin Ford is a UF journalism junior. His 
column normally appears on Tuesdays.With the dominance of Abrahamic 
religion, atheism is important tooColumn
Neel Bapatla
opinions@alligator.org
Justin Ford
opinions@alligator.orgraise in the Student Health Fee, 
which provides about 85 percent of the counseling center’s budget, would have paid for salary raises and the hiring of two post-doctoral stu-dents as counselors, he said.
The committee, made up of four 
students and three staff members, voted whether to recommend in-creases for student-paid fees such as the Student Health Fee, Service and 
Activities Fee and the Athletic Fee, 
to Vice President for Student Affairs Dave Kratzer.
“(Committee members) were all 
open to expressing their views in terms of what they felt about their particular request,” said Kim Pace, the assistant vice president for Stu-dent Affairs and Fall 2015 committee 
chair. They voted unanimously to 
support a 10-cent increase, a recom-mendation Pace said has yet to be of-ficially approved or disapproved.
But with the remainder of the 
counseling center’s budget relying on state funding, the potential fee increase may not result in a budget increase. For now, Escoto plans to 
use the extra 10 cents to pay for sal-
ary raises for current staff members, some of whom are graduate students and paid interns.
This Spring, Escoto submitted 
another funding request of about $750,000 to the UF Board of Gover-nors to renovate the Crisis and Emer-gency Resource Center on the fourth floor of Peabody Hall and hire more staff.
“We want to expand those servic-
es to our students because we know that it’s in high demand,” he said, adding that having more than two counselors in the center on campus would provide another resource for students.
Until the requests are approved, 
Escoto said, the counseling center re-mains limited.
“It’s like a bus, right? A bus comes 
with 100 seats,” he said. “Once you sit 100 people, you cannot put any-more in that bus.”“You have to wait for somebody 
to get off the bus and then let some-body else walk into the bus and have a seat.”
•   •   •
For now, one semester is all the 
counseling center can offer students.
But it isn’t in their nature to turn 
people down, Stuart said. When there are students without health in-
surance, or without a way to get to 
an off-campus resource, the counsel-ing center will do its best.
She said the center encourages 
students to try group therapy, which many students can find helpful. The center also offers Therapist Assisted Online, a seven-week program stu-dents can use to connect with a ther-
apist once a week for a 10- to 15-min-
ute consultation. There is also Yappy Hour every Thursday from 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., during which students can come in and meet therapy dogs Sigmund and Gabe.
“We’re just doing the best we 
can, with the people sitting in front of us, to make those decision,” she said.But sometimes, the solution is to 
go somewhere else.
Last Fall, the counseling center 
referred about 27 percent of UF stu-dents to off-campus resources. These roughly 1,118 cases were ones in which the student suffered from a 
chronic disorder or their schedule 
conflicted with appointment times.
This was the case with Sarah Pot-
ter.
Potter had nine individual ses-
sions with a therapist, but once a new semester started, she felt the counseling center couldn’t provide her a stable environment.
After talking to her parents, she 
found a therapist at UF Health who she sees once a week. So far she’s spent $195 on sessions. Her medica-tions cost her about $150 a year.
“I will see her until I graduate. 
I need that steadiness, because I don’t know half the stuff that’s going through my mind,” she said.
But while Potter had a positive 
experience despite the counseling center’s limitations, Chase Minervini was grateful for an alternative.The 21-year-old UF economics 
and political science senior struggles with anxiety and depression. After going to an evaluation appointment his freshman year, he waited.
But he never received an answer.Frustrated and sick, he went back 
his sophomore year. He was able to see a counselor for eight sessions, but the center could no longer offer him more individual sessions.
He said they offered group ther-
apy as a way for him to relate to his peers. He gave it a try, but it wasn’t the same. He continued to struggle; continued to break down.
“What am I reaching out for when 
it doesn’t feel like I’m getting any help?” he said.
During his darkest times, he’s 
considered suicide.
He went back for a third evalua-
tion appointment during Spring 2015, but there were no appointment times that fit his schedule. The counselor 
extended his appointment and called 
about a dozen off-campus clinics. He said she called until she found a clinic that would take his insurance.Last Spring, Minervini became 
a patient at UF Health Springhill, where he currently sees a therapist and pays a $40 copay every session. He’s spent about $600 on counseling sessions, and he spends about $200 a year on medication.
“I’m coping with just being a nor-
mal person,” he said.
•   •   •
But students at UF are coming to-
gether to provide a solution.
Anthony Coscia, 20, started 
Gators for Mental Health Policy Awareness to help bring attention 
to mental health on campus. In its 
second semester, the UF psychology junior said the aim is to help inform students of the consequences of not treating mental health.
“Just because you don’t see it, 
doesn’t mean it doesn’t exist,” he said.  “I just feel like a lot of people in this world suffer due to mental health 
disorders.”
The group plans to write letters to 
the state legislators to support fund-
ing for state universities with coun-seling centers.
UF Student Sen. Kylie Werk, 
chairwoman of the Mental Health Awareness Committee, said raising mental health awareness has been 
her goal since she joined Student 
Government.
“We’re more focused on raising 
awareness of the (UF) resources, but also the topic of mental health,” Werk said.
Having dealt with eating disor-
ders since middle school and anxiety since high school, she said she un-derstands the demand the counseling center faces and the struggles of stu-dents who need the care.
“I want to see actual action and 
improvement on campus,” she said.
And despite Potter’s continued 
struggle with anxiety, that’s what she’ll try to do — without the help of the counseling center.
“I just keep pushing forward,” she 
said, “and hope that it gets better.”
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Sarah Potter, a 21-year-old UF food science and human nutrition junior, is one of 
many students who had to stop treatment at the UF Counseling and Wellness Center because of inconsistent treatment resulting from insufficient funding.
CWC,  from pg 1The CWC requested a 20-cent increase in student fees for funding
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
The UF Counseling and Wellness Center, situated at 3190 Radio Road, submitted a budget request to the UF Fee Committee asking for a 20-cent raise in the student health fee, which would have paid for salary raises and two new counselors. The CWC only received a 10-cent raise.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
Ernesto Escoto, the director of the UF Counseling and Wellness Center, said the CWC was stretched beyond its capacity when student demand for services swelled midway through Fall semester.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
©
2
01
4
.
P
aid 
f
or 
b
y the Un
 i
t
e
d 
S
t
a
t
e
s Ar
m
y
. A
y
. A
y
l
l r
i
g
h
t
s 
r
es
er
v
ed
.
DISCOVER A 
GENEROUS  
SCHOLARS HIP 
PROGRAM.
The He alth Pr ofessions Scholar ship 
Program (HP SP) offers qualiﬁed 
studen ts full t uition for a gr aduat e-level 
degree at the s chool of your choic e. 
You’ll als o receive a mon thly stipend 
and paymen t for book s, equipmen t    
and ac ademic fees.
To learn more, visit 
healthcare.goarmy.com/gators or call 352-376-0408.
8.7%OF ALL ENROLLED STUDENTS
have received some form
of clinical care at the CWC
Information from UF’s Counseling and Wellness Center’s 2014-2015 Annual ReportBREAKDOWN OF CWC CLIENTS
Students served by CWCNUMBER OF …
Individual counseling sessions
Group/group-related sessionsPsychiatric appointmentsIndividual counseling 
sessions per client (average)
Total appointments2014 2015
4,326 4,401
16,017 15,735
6,415 6,818
6,347 5,762
7. 3 6 7. 0 0
39,527 37,726
2,783
Sadness/Depression
622
622
Relationships
Relationships
561
Substance 
Abuse
591
Abuse/Assault
in History
ACADEMIC STATUS …
Graduate and professionalSeniorJuniorSophomoreFreshmanNUMBER PERCENT
838 23%
838 23%
896 24%
611 17%
500 14%PROBLEMS PRESENTED AT THE CWC
Information from UF’s Counseling and Wellness Center’s 2014-2015 Annual Report
Sadness/Depression
964
964
Eating
Eating
 Concerns
 Concerns
Abuse/Assault
2,784
Anxiety/Stress
2,776
D i f ﬁ c u l t y  
Concentrating
Concentrating
2,089
Shyness/Social 
Shyness/Social 
Anxiety
Sadness/Depression
1,975
Academic 
Distress
1,282
Suicidal Thought
or IntentFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
2-26-16-37-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
8 Blocks to UF!
Large 2BR with island kitchen & plenty of parking!
$750/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
Sorority Row Area!
Fully remodeled large historic 1BRGranite counter tops, hardwood floors
800/mo. 352-505-5049     2-19-16-20-2
House For Rent in NW Gainesville, close to 
UF. $1250 per month 1600 sqft. 3BD/2BA, Large Kitchen, dining, living room, Den. W/D hookup. Fenced in yard. For more informa-tion & pictures Call or text 352-222-0838.   2-11-16-10-2 
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAYSell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
4-20-59-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-20-15-71-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 10 For SaleFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville
1-5-56-1298 NISSAN SENTRA $300
98 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-12
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-11-16-15-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
 
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
DOMINO"S HIRING
Delivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Busy professional seeks helper. Good with tools? Like working on different projects? Want a break from the typical college job scene? Seeking an independent, self mo-tivated problem solver. Be the helper of a successful CEO. Earn money. Learn a lot at the same time. Less than 10 hrs per week. Previous position holders all became suc-cessful entrepreneurs. Unique opportunity beyond the paycheck. Tell me why you want this job: Photos2016gnv@gmail.com    2-5-16-5-14
Servers Needed!!!!
Yamato Japanese Steakhouse
526 Nw 60th St.
2-10-5-14
Linux SysAdminManage in house systems and dedicated cli-ent setups. Responsible for maintaining and improving the virtualization hosts, configura -
tion management and deployment automa-tion, monitoring, and backups. Research and develop new systems based on both pro-prietary and open source software. Submit resume to rebecca@acceleration.net    2-8-16-2-14
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Oak Hall School is seeking energetic, cre-ative, and enthusiastic individuals with a love for children to staff its summer camp pro-gram. For a complete listing of positions visit www.oakhall.org/summercamp. Interview process begins February 20.   2-19-16-11-14**DRIVER TRAINEES****NEEDED NOW**850-983-1400             2-5-1-14
Can You Dig It? Heavy Equipment Operator Career! We Offer Training and Certifications Running Bulldozers, Backhoes and Excavators. Lifetime Job Placement. VA Benefits Eligible! 1-866-362-6497    2-5-1-14
ATTN: Drivers- $2K Sign-On BonusLove your $60K+ Job!We Put Drivers First! Pet & RiderAvg $1200 WeeklyCDL-A Req- (877) 258-8782drive4melton.com    2-5-1-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
AIRLINES need Aircraft Dispatchers -Grads work with airlines, airports, and others -Get certified in just 12 weeks with FAA approved training. Call AIM 888-242-2649    2-5-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now  1-800-224-0305    2-5-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
FOUND PHONE
On 23rd St in Winn Dixie parking lot, under 
green trash can. Found on Tuesday 1/12. 
Turned into Gainsville Police Dept 955-1818
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Headline
Story description Pg#
Florida football hired a new 
defensive backs coach on Thursday.Read the story on pg. 16.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Brewer leads Rockets
Former UF basketball player Corey Brewer scored a team-high 24 points 
in the Houston Rockets' 111-105 win over the Phoenix Suns on Thursday. Brewer also collected four steals and shot 9-of-12 from the ﬁ  eld.By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
One of the most storied rivalries 
in the Southeastern Conference is 
primed for another chapter. 
Tonight at 7, the top-ranked 
Florida Gators’ gymnastics team 
(4-0, 2-0 SEC) will square off 
against rival No. 11 Georgia (2-3, 2-1 SEC) at the Stegeman Coliseum in Athens, rearing to post a victory 
in the rivalry’s 141st matchup.
“Florida-Georgia is always a big 
rivalry,” senior Bridgette Caquatto 
said. “I think it starts with the big Florida-Georgia football game that 
they host in Jacksonville, and it’s 
two huge, big SEC schools.”
Coming into tonight’s contest, 
the Bulldogs lead the head-to-head 
series with a dominating 98-41-1 
record all-time against the Gators. 
However, Florida is set to defy 
the trend. Riding a four-game win-
ning streak, UF takes the mat fresh on the heels of the nation’s top-scoring performance. 
Posting a 198.175 in its SEC 
home-opener against the then-No. 5 Alabama Crimson Tide, Florida notched a decisive victory in its third consecutive top-10 matchup, propelled to the podium by three perfect 10s courtesy of sopho-more Alex McMurtry (bars), senior Bridget Sloan (beam) and sopho-more Kennedy Baker (ﬂ  oor).
Additionally, Gator gymnasts 
swept the SEC’s weekly honors. Sloan and McMurtry hauled in Gymnast and Specialist of the Week honors, respectively, while freshman Alicia Boren collected her second Freshman of the Week award this season.
Georgia, on the other hand, is 
seeking to improve upon a lack-luster January. The NCAA’s most storied gymnastics program (with 16 conference championships complementing 10 national titles) has yet to string together consecu-Florida gymnastics travels to face No. 11 Georgia tonight
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Bridgette Caquatto performs her ﬂ  oor routine during Florida's win over Alabama on Jan. 29 in the O'Connell Center. 
SEE GYM,  PAGE 14
THE JUNIOR HAD 20 POINTS 
AND 15 REBOUNDS.
By Ethan Bauer 
Sports Writer
As much as Florida women’s basketball 
coach Amanda Butler likes to talk about 
how her team plays balanced basketball, Thursday night wasn’t a balanced perfor-mance.
While multiple Gators made momen-
tum-altering plays, it was junior Ronni Wil-liams who carried Florida for the majority of the game.
In one of the best games of her career, 
she went for 20 points — one shy of her career high — and 15 rebounds.
Williams’ unusually productive individ-
ual effort, coupled with clutch plays from the rest of the team, led the No. 22 Gators (19-4, 7-3 Southeastern Conference) to an 83-81 win over the No. 12 Texas A&M Ag-gies (15-7, 5-4 SEC) on Thursday night in the O’Connell Center. 
"Ronni Williams is one of the top-10 
players in our league, and she can do that every night," Texas A&M coach Gary Blair said. "If she can stay out of foul trouble, just think what she can doing 40 minutes."
Williams ﬂ  ashed her potential in her 
ﬁ  rst game as a Gator nearly three years ago. In the 2013 season opener against Bethune-Cookman, she collected a team-high-tying 15 points and set her career-high mark for 
rebounds with 17. 
But after fouling out with 2:37 to play on 
Thursday, it was up to the rest of the team 
to deliver.
And as they have for most of the sea-
son in the fourth quarter, the team came 
through. 
In addition to Williams, three Gators ﬁ  n-
ished in double ﬁ  gures. 
And of the three of them, junior Simone 
Westbrook’s contributions were the most pivotal.
Westbrook, who has scored in double 
digits in her last three games, hit two buzz-
er-beating shots to give UF the momentum. 
One came on a three-pointer at the end Gators upset Texas A&M behind 
Williams' double-doubleIT'S COHEN DOWN
The meeting near half 
court has been docu-mented.
Before the Florida 
men's basketball game 
last Saturday, a group of West 
Virginia players purposely be-gan performing their pre-game routine close to UF's huddle. 
The two teams exchanged 
words and several shoves before they were separated by coaches.
As the two sides faced each other on the 
court prior to tipoff, they might as well have been looking into a mirror.
Florida and West Virginia are two eerily 
similar teams —they both have stingy, stoic defenses that rank 36th and 49th nationally 
in opponents’ points per game, respectively.
They both have elite rebounders in the 
Gators’ forward Dorian Finney-Smith (8.2 
per game) and the Mountaineers’ forward 
Devin Williams (8.9), who rank top six in 
their respective conferences.
And they both have a streaky but talent-
ed set of perimeter players that are largely inconsistent from behind the arc — Florida 
ranks 11th in the Southeastern Conference 
at 32.7-percent three-point shooting and West Virginia sits in ninth place in the Big 12, at 31.1 percent.
But for all their similarities, 
they differ in the one area that matters the most: West Virginia is ranked No. 14, while Florida is unranked.
Mike White has been 
preaching defense to his team all season, especially with its 
inability to depend on outside shooting. Be-fore their game against West Virginia, the 
Gators missed 15 of their 22 three-pointers 
at Vanderbilt. Against the Mountaineers, they made 12 of 20 from behind the arc.
West Virginia deals with many of the 
same problems as Florida, and yet, it has three fewer losses and a national ranking.
“I don’t want to say we’re trying to be 
exactly like West Virginia,” UF coach Mike White said. “Although if we were, we’d be 
pretty good.”
If Florida wants to be elite, this is who 
they must be.
And they must display it on Saturday 
against No. 20 Kentucky, not only because 
it would give White his second signature win in his ﬁ  rst year as coach, but because UF should show improvement against UK
SEE W-HOOPS,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14The Gators are 4-0
“I think it's very exciting. I'm sure it's 
not exciting for our opponents."
Amanda Butler
UF women's basketball coach
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenbtive wins. Its most decisive victory 
came last week against then-No. 23 Kentucky by a score of 196.275-195.025. 
“Georgia has a great history of winning a lot of national champi-
onships in a row, and now Flori-
da’s kinda made a name for them-
selves,” Caquatto said. “So going 
into this, it’s going to be a fun, re-ally good, competitive SEC meet.”
Boasting three top-10 and two top-five rotational units across the 
vault (No. 4), bars (No. 4) and 
floor (No. 7), Georgia’s squad pos-
es a legitimate threat to Florida’s 
dominance. 
Furthermore, the Bulldogs re-
turn three All-Americans from the 
2015 roster, highlighted by senior 
Brittany Rogers, who battled Flori-da’s Sloan to a second-place tie in the 2015 NCAA bars final. 
And, backed by a knowledge-
able and rowdy crowd, things could get interesting. 
Known to bark at opposing 
teams, the Bulldogs’ fanbase has 
caught the attention of Florida 
gymnasts. 
“Going to Georgia, I’m really 
excited,” freshman Peyton Ernst 
said. “I’ve heard it’s a great crowd. 
“I’m expecting it to be a lot of 
people and really loud, but coming off from the last meet (against Ala-bama) I’m kind of used to the big crowd. We had an amazing crowd 
last week here for a home meet, so 
I’m excited to see how it is.” 
With its fifth-consecutive win at 
stake, Florida has discovered the 
formula for success.
It just comes down to tweaking 
the mix from here on out. 
“We did really great last week-
end, and it’s really just the de-tails,” Caquatto said. “Our gym-
nastics is there — we do big and 
beautiful gymnastics. You know, 
college gymnastics, working on those handstands on bars and we can get a lot more stuck landings 
on our dismounts.
“Really, (it’s) just keeping the 
good energy, having fun with it. 
We seem to thrive when we have a lot of fun.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.orgGYM,  from pg 13Georgia returns three All-Americansof the third quarter, the second time she has 
connected on a quarter-ending three in as many games, and it gave Florida a 65-60 lead going into the final period. 
She also hit a floater with 1:02 left and 
with one second on the shot clock, giving Florida its final points. Those points were the difference in the game.
"I think it's very exciting," coach Aman-
da Butler of several players contributing to the win. "I'm sure it's not exciting for our opponents." 
While Ronni Williams was at the center 
of Florida’s success, senior Courtney Walker 
was at the center of Texas A&M’s, scoring 31 
points for the Aggies.
Butler said the Gators tried to adjust at 
halftime — at which point Walker already had 15 points. 
"We obviously didn't do a very good job 
of adjusting to Walker. She's pretty amaz-ing. Just wow," Butler said. "It'd have been fun to watch if I wasn't sitting on the other 
bench."
But despite Walker’s individual effort, the Aggies couldn’t finish. 
Trailing by as many as eight with 5:11 
left in the third quarter, Florida started click-
ing. 
Within four minutes, UF had taken the 
lead and by the end of the quarter, it was up by five.
The game didn’t finish without drama, 
as the lead changed three times in the final quarter. Ultimately, Florida successfully de-fended a Texas A&M layup attempt at the 
buzzer to seal the win.
Even though the Gators are coming off 
wins over No. 12 Texas A&M and then-No. 
12 Kentucky, the schedule only gets tougher. 
Now in sole possession of second place 
in the SEC, UF will travel to Columbia, South Carolina, for a showdown with the first place, No 2. Gamecocks on Thursday. 
"We have a little extra rest, but we'll get 
back after it on Sunday and try to win the 
battle of preparation," Butler said. "That's 
the first battlefront that we try to win on, and it's gonna be critical, and I think it's gonna be a lot of fun."
              @ebaueri
         ebauer@alligator.orgW-HOOPS,  from pg 13The Aggies missed a last-second shot in loss to the Gators
the Wildcats are at their most vul-
nerable.
While UK does rank third in 
the SEC in points per game (78.1) and second in field-goal percent-age (47.2 percent), it’s only shoot-ing 32 percent from three, second 
to last in the conference, and al-
lowing a middling 68.3 points per game, which ranks 100th in the country.
The Wildcats have also lost 
their last two games, including a seven-point defeat at Tennessee on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, the Gators have 
won five of their last six games by an average margin of 13 points, and have shot 47.2 percent over that span.“I think it’s just been a com-
bination of things,” White said of his team’s improved play. “Roles 
have been defined a little bit 
more over time. Some of that is the staff and some of that is just guys taking ownership over it, our guys together helping define 
roles.”
And it has helped that Florida 
has seen White’s preaching pay 
off — when the Gators have been 
great defensively, they’ve been 
able to compete with almost any-one.
“We’re still a young team,” 
Finney-Smith said. “(But) we’re 
starting to play for each other.”
Ian Cohen is the Sports Editor. 
Contact him at icohen@alligator.
org and follow him on Twitter @icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg 13
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Peyton Ernst hugs teammate Alicia Boren during UF's win over Alabama on Jan. 29 in the O'Connell Center.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Florida's Ronni Williams looks to pass during UF's 85-79 win over Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center.
14   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
Coach Mike White calls out a play during Florida's 87-83 win over Arkansas on Wednesday in the O'Connell CenterFRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
WOMEN’S TENNIS
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
The doubles point is something 
that coach Roland Thornqvist has 
stressed over and over again.  
In Thursday’s match against 
Florida State in Tallahassee, Flor-ida backed up its coach’s words. 
The No. 3 Gators (2-0) defeated 
the Seminoles (5-2) 6-1 on the road 
in a match that was much closer 
than what the score indicated.
“We had some really good bat-
tles in singles and I was curious to see how a couple of our players, who lost their matches here last year, would want to handle them-
selves today,” Thornqvist said in a 
release.
Florida struck first in doubles.The No. 5 duo of sophomore 
Brooke Austin and junior Kourt-ney Keegan started off the match strong for the Gators, defeating Daneika Borthwick and Gabriella Castaneda, 6-3. 
After falling behind 4-0 to FSU’s 
Ariana Rahmanparast and Lana Rush, the No. 50 tandem of sopho-more Anna Danilina and senior 
Brianna Morgan wouldn’t go down 
easily, winning six straight games to clinch the doubles point 6-4 and give the Gators a 1-0 lead.
The singles matches were just 
as close.
No. 25 Keegan and No. 56 
sophomore Josie Kuhlman found themselves down early, while No. 73 junior Spencer Liang and No. 11 Austin were neck-and-neck with their respective opponents in 
the first set.
But No. 51 Morgan and No. 
110 Danilina took command early, 
building leads and never letting go. 
Danilina defeated Rush 6-2, 6-3, to give the Gators a 2-0 lead over the Seminoles.
Down 0-3 in the first set against 
Castaneda, Kuhlman regained her 
composure and took the next six 
games to win the first set 6-3. In the second set, Kuhlman domi-nated, winning 6-2 and giving the Gators a 3-0 lead.Morgan was in control for most 
of her match. Trailing only once, she defeated Julia Mikulski in con-vincing fashion, winning 6-3, 6-1, 
and clinching the victory for the 
Gators. 
Austin’s match against Borth-
wick was close throughout the first set, which saw four ties. In the end, Austin took the match 7-6, 6-1.
Keegan struggled in her first 
set, trailing 4-0 to Yukako Noi at 
the start. After dropping the first 
set 6-2, Keegan came back in the second set stronger, winning 6-4. Because the Gators already clinched the dual match, the third 
set was halted after one game, 
which Keegan won 1-0.
It was Liang, though, who 
would fall to Rahmanparast 4-6, 
6-2, 1-0. Another close match saw 
a lot of back and forth action, but ultimately Rahmanparast would finish on top.
The Gators face No. 4 Southern 
California (3-0) on Sunday before beginning a stretch that includes No. 1 Vanderbilt on March 12 and No. 2 Georgia on April 15.
The Trojans lost four seniors 
from last year’s team in Gabriella DeSimone, Casey Reed, Sabrina Santamaria and Zoe Scandalis. But USC also gained four freshman in 
Jessica Failla, Alex Letzt, Rianna 
Valdes and Kristen Venter. 
The Gators face USC at the Ring 
Tennis Complex at 11 a.m.
“Overall, I was very pleased, 
and this was exactly what we wanted before Southern Califor-nia,” Thornqvist said. “One more match under our belt.”
@DreilingerJake
jDreilinger@alligator.orgGators defeat ‘Noles, face Southern California on Sunday
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Kourtney Keegan returns a ball during UF’s 6-1 win over USF on Jan. 27 at the Ring T ennis Complex.
THE GATORS WILL COMPETE IN 
THE VIRGINIA TECH ELITE MEET 
TODAY.
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
Expectations are normally difficult to 
live up to in sports. 
This is especially true when a team car-
ries the weight of Florida’s name, repre-senting one of the more prominent athletic programs in the country. 
Coming into the season, UF’s No. 1 
men’s and No. 4 women’s track and field teams had championship expectations. And today, representatives from both teams travel to Blacksburg, Virginia, to take on 12 of the nation’s best at the Vir-
ginia Tech Elite Meet. 
Two meets into the season, both teams 
have shown they are talented, but they 
have also shown that there is room for im-
provement. 
According to coach Mike Holloway, this 
could be due to how well the teams per-
formed last year. 
“The biggest thing is that we’ve got to 
get refocused,” Holloway said in a release after the Razorback Invitational on Sun-day. “I just think some people are kind of living in the past. They want to ride the 
success from last year or even before that. 
We can’t do that. We’ve got to remember who we are and how we do things.”
Over the next two days at the Virginia 
Tech Elite Meet, the teams will have the opportunity to prove to its coach and com-petition that they are living in the present.
The men will face four teams ranked 
within the top 25 in No. 4 Virginia Tech, No. 9 Tennessee, No. 10 Georgia and No. 25 North Carolina State. The women will also be facing tough Southeastern Confer-
ence competition, taking on No. 2 Georgia, 
No. 12 Kentucky and No. 14 Tennessee. They will also face Virginia.
This weekend, two women will repre-
sent the Gators in throwing: Sophomore 
Lloydricia Cameron and redshirt freshman 
Jontavia Dykes will both be competing in the weight event. In addition, Cameron will also be competing in the shot put.
On the men’s side, redshirt freshman AJ 
McFarland will be competing in the weight event.
The Gators may only have three repre-
sentatives this weekend, but that doesn’t 
mean the expectations will be any lower, 
especially not if coach Holloway is the judge.
“We’ve got some senior leadership 
problems, more so on the men’s side than the women’s,” Holloway said. “We’ve got to get that figured out. We’ve got to do bet-ter. But, again, it’s early. We’ve got time.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgFlorida track & field looking to move on from last year’s success
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Florida coach Mike Holloway looks on as UF races in the 2015 Florida Relays on 
April 2, 2015.16   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016
GRAY HELD THE SAME 
POSITION AT VIRGINIA 
TECH FOR 10 YEARS.
By Luis T orres
Sports Writer
After finishing the 2016 recruiting cycle 
without a defensive backs coach, Florida 
found its man less than 24 hours after Na-
tional Signing Day. 
After resigning from the Hokies, Virginia 
Tech defensive backs coach Torrian Gray 
will take the same position with the Gators, 
Florida announced on Thursday.
Gray was hired at Virginia Tech in 2006. 
Over 10 seasons, he oversaw a secondary 
that earned eight top-15 national finishes in opponent passer rating.
“I can’t thank (VT) coach Justin Fuente 
enough for offering to do more to encourage me to stay, but Florida was one of the op-portunities that would make me even con-
sider leaving Virginia Tech,” Gray said in a 
release. UF coach Jim McElwain addressed the 
Gators’ lack of a defensive backs coach on National Signing Day on Wednesday, adding 
that the position would be filled shortly. 
“I think we’re down the road on that,” 
McElwain said. “Obviously, it goes back to 
something I believe in. I’m not going to ruin anybody’s (day). This is something we’re 
ready to do. It will happen.” 
Gray will take over for Kirk Callahan, 
who parted ways with the Gators on Jan. 15.
“We’re excited to have Torrian join the 
Gator family,” McElwain said in a release.
@LFTorresIII
torres@alligator.orgFlorida football team hires 
new defensive backs coach
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
JUMPMAN, JUMPMAN, JUMPMAN
Florida’s KeVaughn Allen dunks the ball during UF’s 87-83 win over Arkansas on 
Wednesday in the O’Connell Center. Florida faces No. 20 Kentucky on Saturday at 4 p.m.
SUNDAY
Women’s T ennis vs. USC, 11 a.m.
Women’s Golf @ Northrop Grumman Regional ChallengeSATURDAY
Lacrosse vs. Loyola, 12 p.m.
Men’s Basketball @ Kentucky, 4 p.m., CBS
Track & Field @ Virginia T ech Elite MeetTODAY
Gymnastics @ Georgia, 7 p.m., SEC Network
Track & Field @ Virginia T ech Elite Meet“I can’t thank (VT) coach Justin Fuente 
enough for offering to do more to 
encourage me to stay, but Florida 
was one of the opportunities that 
would make me even consider leaving 
Virginia Tech.”
T orrian Gray
former Virginia T ech 
defensive backs coach
THIS WEEKEND IN UF SPORTS