We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 32 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
Men’s golf team ﬁ  nishes in 
second place at tourney
T osti placed third with a score of 4
 under par, pg. 14
HeForShe at UF hosts Flags for Equality
Organizers invited students to sign the U.N. Women’s “I am He-
ForShe” commitment, pg. 5
Fundraiser helps UF student with citizenship costs
She raised more than $1,200 in two days, pg. 5See campaign ﬁ  nances from Fall
SG election 2016
Election complaints were also discussed
today, pg. 3
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
UF ofﬁ  cials will meet today to 
discuss how Hurricane Matthew 
may affect the university for the rest of the week.
UF is monitoring the storm 
and hasn’t made any decisions on whether to cancel classes later this week, UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes said. The emergency opera-tions team will meet at noon today before making recommendations to UF President Kent Fuchs.
“At this point, we don’t have 
enough information about the 
storm’s path and potential impacts 
to make a decision about (closing campus),” Sikes said.
In preparation for the hurricane, 
a threat that forced Gov. Rick Scott to place every Florida county under a state of emergency Monday, UF and Santa Fe College have added banners to their main websites for 
students to monitor the storm and 
read safety tips. A UF emergency hotline, 1-866-UF-FACTS, has also been set up.
Tuesday’s 8 p.m. forecast 
showed Hurricane Matthew’s eye was projected to pass just off Flori-da’s east coast, with Gainesville in the western part of the “cone of un-certainty,” according to the Nation-al Hurricane Center. The hurricane is expected to be a Category 3 hurri-cane by about 2 p.m. Friday, when the storm is currently projected to 
come closest to Alachua County.
As of 8 p.m. Tuesday, Alachua County had about a 45 percent 
chance of getting tropical-storm-force winds, which are 39 mph or 
greater, according to the National 
Hurricane Center.
Gainesville could start feeling 
the effects of Hurricane Matthew as early as Thursday evening and as late as Saturday morning, accord-ing to an Alachua County media release.
As of press time, Saturday’s UF 
football game against Louisiana State University will run as sched-uled, Sikes said.
The University Athletic Associa-
tion, working with UF, the South-eastern Conference and local ofﬁ  -cials, will continue to monitor the storm, she said.
Chip Skinner, the Regional Tran-
sit System marketing and commu-nications supervisor, wrote in an email that RTS will be discussing 
emergency preparations later today 
after its ﬁ  rst emergency operations meeting this afternoon.
 UF to discuss possible impacts of Hurricane Matthew today
SEE MATTHEW,  PAGE 4
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Three students watch as vice presidential candidates Gov. Mike Pence, a Republican, 
and Sen. Tim Kaine, a Democrat, debate on screen at a watch party held in Pugh Hall on Tuesday evening. The event, hosted by the Bob Graham Center for Public Service, had about 25 attendees and included an opportunity to register to vote, a game of debate bingo and free pizza.
By Alexa Lorenzo
Alligator Contributing Writer
Next week, fans of the wizard-
ing world of “Harry Potter” will be able to binge-watch the entire mov-ie series on an IMAX screen.
Starting Oct. 13, the Regal Holly-
wood Stadium 16 & IMAX in Ocala, located at 2801 SW 27th Ave., will screen all eight of the series’ mov-ies for a week, along with a peek 
at the “Harry Potter” spinoff “Fan-
tastic Beasts and Where to Find 
Them,” set for a Nov. 18 release.
Individual tickets cost $6, and 
one-day passes cost $20, Chris 
Newman, a Regal Cinemas public 
relations coordinator, wrote in an email. John Muia, a 19-year-old UF 
accounting sophomore, said he 
has been a fan of “Harry Potter” 
for most of his life, but he isn’t 
willing to drive 40 minutes to the 
Ocala theater for the movie mara-
thon.
“It would be awesome if I could 
just drive ﬁ  ve minutes down Ar-
cher (Road) and watch the movies on a big screen like I did as a kid,” he said.
Because the national campaign 
is a partnership between Warner 
Bros. Entertainment and IMAX, 
only those theaters with IMAX ca-
pabilities are participating, which 
excludes both Gainesville Regal 
Cinemas locations.
Lily Jantarachota, a UF archi-tecture freshman who has seen every “Harry Potter” movie and read every “Harry Potter” book, 
said watching the movies in a the-
ater would make her feel like a kid 
again. 
“I don’t have a car, but I’m go-
ing to ask some of my friends if they 
want to drive to Ocala if they’re in-
terested,” the 17-year-old said.  Ocala IMAX theater to screen ‘Harry Potter’ marathonBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
About a week after the ﬁ  rst presidential 
debate, students and Gainesville residents 
came together Tuesday night to watch U.S. 
vice presidential candidates Sen. Tim Kaine 
and Gov. Mike Pence debate.
The Graham Center Student Fellows and 
Gators 4 Hillary hosted free debate watch 
parties to give the public a chance see how 
Democratic candidate Kaine and Repub-lican candidate Pence would defend their platforms and their running mates.
At the Bob Graham Center for Public 
Service’s nonpartisan watch party at Pugh Hall, UF political science junior Natalie Jiron said debate-night bingo and slices of pizza served as a way to balance out this 
year’s highly polarizing presidential elec-
tion that often leads to heated arguments.
Because both of the presidential candi-
dates, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, tend to overshadow their vice presidential 
candidates, the 20-year-old said she didn’t 
anticipate Tuesday’s debate to be as abra-sive as the presidential debate Sept. 26.“We never hear them speak,” she said. 
“We have two very strong-personality can-
didates, so we kind of only see (Kaine and 
Pence) as puppets.”
Throughout the debate, however, Kaine 
and Pence took jabs at each other’s running mates, with Kaine alleging Republican pres-
idential nominee Donald Trump didn’t pay 
his income taxes and Pence pinning Demo-cratic nominee Hillary Clinton as the main culprit of the Middle East’s instability.
At the ofﬁ  ce of the Florida Democratic 
Party located on Northwest Sixth Street, Santiago Marquez, a 19-year-old UF sustainability and women’s studies sopho-more, said both candidates did fairly well.
Despite how they’ve been portrayed in 
the media, he said, they refused to back down when pressed on each other’s policy points.
“They’re not as reserved,” Marquez 
said. “And they usually are.”
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org
SEE MORE DEBATE COVERAGE,  PAGE 8   GNV residents, UF students 
watch as VP candidates face oﬀ  Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  84° LOW  76°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘People on the Move’
“People on the Move,” an ex-
hibit about the migrant crisis, is on display this in the Pugh Hall Ocora today until Friday. The ex-
hibit is sponsored by Welcoming 
Gainesville as part of Welcoming Week.
UF Symphony Orchestra concert 
Thursday 
The UF Symphony Orchestra 
presents a concert in memory 
of Arthur Jennings on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. The UF Symphony Orchestra, accompanied by Kevin Sharpe on the piano, will perform songs by Bach, Beethoven and Bruckner. The concert is free and open to the public. For more information, visit arts.ufl.edu/orchestra.
Free English classes and citizen-
ship classes
The Latina Women’s League is offering free English classes on 
Tuesdays from 6 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. at the Alachua County Library Millhopper Branch. Anyone looking to improve their conversational English can at-tend. The league is also offering free citizenship classes every Thursday from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the library, during which attendees can learn about the process of citizenship. For more information, visit latinawomens-
league.org.
CASA Mid-Autumn Festival
UF’s Chinese American Student 
Association brings you its an-nual Mid-Autumn Festival show Sunday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Mid-Autumn, similar to Thanksgiving in the U.S., is a 
harvest festival that seeks to cel-
ebrate family and food under the brightest full moon of the year. Immerse yourself in a night of culture through food, cultural activities, stories and perfor-mances. It is a completely free event that will feature food and raffles. Doors open at 6 p.m., 
and the show starts promptly at 
6:30 p.m.
STRIVE Sexual Consent Health 
Communication CampaignAre you and your friends clear about sexual consent? Relying on nonverbal communica-tion or cultural scripts can re-
sult in sexual assault. Sexual 
Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education at GatorWell has cre-ated a Sexual Consent Health Communication Campaign to help reduce the incidence of sex-ual assault through knowledge, belief and behavior change. Check it out at gatorwell.ufsa.ufl.edu.
Correction
UF Hispanic Heritage Month hosted Diane Guerrero at the 
Reitz Union. The Alligator origi-
nally reported otherwise in an article published Oct. 4 under the headline “Diane Guerrero brings dialogue of deportation to UF students.”
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the 
above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 32
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandThe Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
BEST
BELIEVE
3550 SW 34TH
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
$81.94 $274.30$211.96
$97.92
$68.59
$6,004.61$36.78
Target	Copy
Papa	John's	Pizza
Publix
Dunkin	Donuts
Lowe's
Rad	Wear,	Inc.
Wal-Mart
ONE COMPLAINT 
ACCUSED IMPACT PARTY 
MEMBERS OF WALKING 
VOTERS TO POLLS.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two election complaints were 
heard by the Student Govern-
ment elections commission Tues-day afternoon. 
Edward Zambrano and Mi-
chael Russel defended complaints on behalf of independent candi-date Jeremy O’Brien Murillo’s campaign. One complaint was regarding the absence of a “Reg-istered Political Advertisement” label on Impact Party members’ Facebook posts, and another ad-dressed pictures they said were of Impact representatives walk-ing students to polling locations.
Zambrano, who submitted the 
complaints after volunteering for O’Brien Murillo’s campaign, de-fended the complaints with Rus-sel, Access Party’s president. The 
two dropped a third complaint 
regarding Impact representatives campaigning at the Beaty Towers bus stop.  
Zambrano’s “Reg.Ad.Pol” 
complaint resulted in a warn-ing for Impact, while the other complaint didn’t result in a pun-ishment after three out of ﬁ  ve 
commission members voted the 
evidence wasn’t clear.
“This probably wasn’t done 
out of malice, but then again, the party has been a political party on campus for three election cy-cles already,” Zambrano said. Jason Richards, who defended 
Impact, argued the ads weren’t made in malice and all errors were corrected. 
In Zambrano’s second com-
plaint, he claimed Student Body President Susan Webster and 
another Impact representative 
walked students directly to poll-ing locations and were within 50 feet of the location, which is for-bidden by the 700 election codes. 
Zambrano presented two pic-
tures, both showing the backs of female students, as proof of the complaints. The photo he 
claimed to be of Webster showed 
a blonde student wearing an Im-pact shirt walking with a student next to the door of Jennings Hall. He also submitted witness state-ments of students saying it was Webster.Jennings was the closest poll-
ing location to Beaty Towers, and 
the actions of the Impact repre-
sentatives could have made the election unfair, he said. 
Richards said the complaint 
couldn’t be proven.
“To me, it’s all just a bunch of 
hearsay,” he said. 
Neal Cordero, the chair of the 
commission, said he saw both 
sides of the argument. 
“If you piece some of the 
things we have together, we 
might have a circumstantial evi-dence race,” he said.  
In the end, the commission 
ruled 3-2 that it was not a viola-tion. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org  
 SG election commission dismisses complaintsBy Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
After last week’s Student Senate 
elections, Impact Party and the in-dependent candidates submitted the last of their campaign ﬁ  nance reports Monday. 
Impact Party spent $6,776.10 
throughout its campaign, according to the campaign reports submitted. More than 40 members of the party donated to fund their campaign ex-penses, according to the reports.
Zachariah Chou, the only candi-
date to win a spot against Impact, re-ported spending $0 on his campaign. 
“I wanted to prove a point that 
you don’t need to have access to money,” he said. “You don’t need to spend a dime to get into Senate.” 
Because he ran as an independent 
with no volunteers, he didn’t have to pay for T-shirts or food for anyone else, he said. He wore a suit when he campaigned instead of wearing cus-tom clothes and printed ﬂ  iers using the free Student Government print-ing labs.
Chou said he focused on talking 
to as many people as possible while 
he campaigned. 
“People respond to people, not 
dollars,” he said. 
Impact Party President Janae 
Moodie said all of Impact’s ﬁ  nanc-
es were covered by donations, and most of the money went toward T-shirt purchases. 
“I deﬁ  nitely think that the amount 
that we used was ﬁ  scally respon-sible,” Moodie said. “Ultimately, it’s the campaign on the ground that makes the largest difference.” 
Independent candidate Jeremy 
O’Brien Murillo, who lost his cam-
paign for Beaty Towers by six votes, 
spent about $108 on shirts and ﬂ  i-ers, according to the reports. He said spending the money on his cam-paign helped notify students he was running. 
“I do believe in limits, but when 
you’re an independent, it’s just really hard to get your name out there,” he 
said. 
 Editor’s note: Zachariah Chou 
formerly worked as a paid photog-
rapher for the Alligator. A ﬁ  nal look at campaign ﬁ  nance reports
BALLOTSAaron Albright / Alligator Staff 
A breakdown of Impact Party expenditures during the Fall election.More than $6,000 was spent
Lauren Rowland / Alligator Staff 4   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
Per the bus system’s severe-weather policy, buses will stop running when winds reach 35 
mph, Skinner said. RTS is focusing on preparing enough fuel and making sure the facility’s gen-erator can be used. If evacuations are ordered, RTS buses will 
help transport residents to emergency shelters, he said.
“If the storm takes a turn towards us, then 
we will prepare to stage a number of buses away from the RTS compound to assure a portion of the fleet is available,” he said.
Tuesday afternoon, UF sent an email to 
on-campus residents that said any changes to Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol, RTS and campus dining locations will be posted to UF’s Department of Housing and Residence Educa-tion website and UF’s website. As of press time, all services are operating as usual.
Jackie Johnson, a spokesman for Alachua 
County Public Schools, wrote in an email that the school system is currently monitoring the storm and has yet to decide whether to cancel classes.
Jen Horner, an Alachua County emergency 
management coordinator, said students and Gainesville residents should review emergency 
plans and buy water and nonperishable food. 
“For us right now, it’s really about getting 
the message out about getting prepared,” she 
said. “We’re really waiting to see what the storm does.”
costroff@alligator.org
@ceostroffMATTHEW,  from pg. 1RTS buses will stop running when winds reach 35 mph
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County is asking an ad-
visory board for help in finding a 
new home for the “Old Joe” statue currently located in downtown Gainesville.
After the South Carolina church 
shooting in 2015, Gainesville resi-dents questioned the historical sig-nificance and underlying meaning of the Confederate soldier statue lo-
cated at the corner of University Av-
enue and Main Street. The Mathe-
son History Museum has refused the statue due to the cost of moving it, which has been estimated to be 
more than $36,000.
Mark Sexton, the communica-
tion and legislative affairs direc-
tor for Alachua County, said that because the museum declined the statue, its next request is for the 
Alachua County Veterans Services 
advisory board to offer a suggestion 
for the statue’s location. 
When the board makes its of-
ficial recommendation, the county 
will then add the moving of Old Joe 
back to its agenda, he said.  
“The statue had a lot of mean-
ing to a lot of people,” Sexton said. “Wherever the statue ends up, we 
want to be sure that it is shown re-
spect and is well taken care of.”
Peggy Macdonald, the director of 
the museum, said the county didn’t 
consult the museum when asking it to take Old Joe last fall. 
“It’s a very one-sided agree-
ment,” she said. “We can’t take on the burden of a campaign that we haven’t planned for.”Sexton said finding comprise 
about the statue’s future has been difficult. Some residents say the statute has historical significance, 
but others find it offensive.
“Part of the challenge is trying to 
please everyone,” he said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.orgFuture location of ‘Old Joe’ Confederate soldier statue still unknown         By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s Student Senate elected 
Smith Meyers as the new Senate 
president Tuesday night. 
Meyers (Impact, District A) ran 
unopposed and was unanimously approved as Senate president dur-ing the second of Senate’s back-to-back meetings.
“As Senate president, I will 
never stop working alongside each 
and every one of you to grow the 
Student Body,” Meyers told sena-tors before he was approved.Meyers, who was re-elected 
into Senate after winning his seat in the Fall elections, previ-
ously served as Senate president 
pro-tempore. Austin Champoux 
(Impact, District A), who also 
won his seat in the Fall elections, was elected Senate president pro-tempore. Senate also verified last week’s election results and welcomed new senators into the 
chamber. 
Champoux said he would work 
to reach out to more students to 
apply for replacement seats.
“I want to make sure the most 
and best-qualified applicants are in the Senate,” he said.
During the first meeting, former 
Access Party President Praveen Varanasi let out a single “nay” 
when the senator voted to verify 
the election results. When UF su-
pervisor of elections Eric Hobbs gave his report on the election re-sults, Varanasi questioned him re-
garding the Beaty Towers election. 
“How do you feel about the 
fact people were escorting people 
to the polls?” Varanasi asked, ref-erencing an election complaint 
submitted by Edward Zambrano, 
a volunteer with independent can-
didate Jeremy O’Brien Murillo’s campaign. 
Because O’Brien Murillo lost 
the Beaty Towers election by six 
votes, Varanasi said he didn’t feel 
comfortable verifying the results. 
“I think it was important that 
somebody said something,” he said. “In an election with six votes, that can cause a significant influence.” 
The results were eventually ap-
proved unanimously by Senate. 
Departing senators gave good-
bye speeches, thanking other sen-ators from across the aisle for par-
ticipating in SG. Jenny Clements, 
who finished her term serving as 
Senate president, was also unani-
mously approved as an alternative for the local fee committee.
During the second meeting, 
student senators who won seats in the Fall election were inducted into Senate. 
The new senators stood, raised 
their right hands and vowed to up-
hold the U.S., UF and state consti-
tutions. 
During public debate, Ford 
Dwyer (Access, Law) said he was 
elected by Access Party to serve as 
the party’s leader in Senate. 
“Though we may not always 
agree on every issue on every day, 
I pledge to you that I will criticize 
ideas but not who we are as peo-
ple,” he said. 
@k_newberg
knewberg@alligator.org Senate verifies election results, elects new Senate president
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Newly elected Student Senate President Smith Meyers repeats the oath at the first Senate meeting. 
Meyers was sworn in after being unanimously approved by the Senate on Tuesday evening.
RESOURCES TO 
STAY INFORMED
UF
Website: ufl.eduEmergency Hotline: 1-866-UF FACTS
Twitter: @UF
Santa Fe College
Website: sfcollege.eduTwitter: @SantaFeCollege
Alachua County Public 
Schools
Website: sbac.eduTwitter: @AlachuaSchools
Alachua County Emergency Operations
Rumor Control HotlineIn-county (311) and out-of-county (352-264-6557)WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
By Lee Ann Rufﬁ  er
Alligator Contributing Writer 
With the help of friends and strangers, 
Anna-Liisa Pold is on her way to becoming 
a U.S. citizen.
Pold, a UF occupational therapy gradu-
ate student, started a GoFundMe page Sun-
day to raise money to cover the applica-
tion costs for U.S. citizenship. Within the ﬁ  rst two hours, she reached her $680 goal. As of press time, she’s raised more than $1,200. 
“It’s unbelievable in the most amazing, 
magical way,” the 26-year-old said. 
When she was 2 years old, she left her 
home country of Estonia with her family 
after the Soviet Union collapsed, she said. 
Her father got a job working for a Veterans Affairs hospital in Los Angeles to conduct cancer research, she said. 
When she realized her green card 
would expire in March 2017, she said she knew she had to decide whether to renew it or apply for citizenship.
It wasn’t a difﬁ  cult decision, she said. 
After graduating, she wanted to stay in the U.S. and work. But it was ﬁ  nding the fund-
ing to apply, with a price tag of $680, that 
forced her to reconsider. 
With her occupational therapy board 
exam, which costs about $500, coming up, she realized she couldn’t become a citizen without help, Pold said. 
Pold’s friend Emiro Goossen, 21, said 
he wasn’t surprised she reached her fund-raising goal so quickly.
“I knew it was going to happen,” the UF ﬁ  nance student said. “I had no worries.”
Goossen, who has known Pold for 
about two years, said when she worked as a waitress at the local restaurant Ballyhoo Grill, she never had a bad review. 
Goossen said his mother was eager 
to contribute after he shared the page on Facebook. She wanted to support Pold too, he said. 
Pold said she still ﬁ  nds it hard to believe 
how many people supported her through the fundraiser. It won’t feel totally real until she submits the application with the check, she said. 
“This to me deﬁ  nes my American 
dream,” she said. “No matter where we come from or where we’re born, taking time to show each other kindness is what we have in common.”   Fundraiser helps UF student with citizenship costs  ABOUT 50 STUDENTS SIGNED 
THE PLEDGE, PLACED FLAGS 
ON PLAZA OF THE AMERICAS
By Hope Basile 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
Pink and white ﬂ  ags scattered on the 
lawn of the Plaza of the Americas ﬂ  ut-tered in a light breeze Tuesday afternoon.
Members of the UF chapter of HeFor-
She, a student organization focused on 
promoting gender equality, hosted the 
second annual Flags for Equality. The event invited people to sign the U.N. Women’s “I am HeForShe” commitment to take action against gender bias, vio-lence and discrimination.
The event, which invited participants 
to sign ﬂ  ags and place them on the lawn, gave everyone a visual representation of 
how many students on campus support 
gender equality, said Lindsey Hasak, the organization’s historian. By the end of the event, about 50 students had signed the pledge.
“Actually getting out here and getting 
to talk to people and having them see how many people are in support really spreads the word that it is something ev-
eryone can be interested in and everyone 
can be passionate about,” the 21-year-old UF behavioral and cognitive neurosci-ence junior said.
After signing the commitment, Madi-
son Herrmann wrote her name on a ﬂ  ag and placed it with the others in front of 
Library West. 
The UF sociology junior said she 
signed the pledge to show her support 
for gender equality.
“Every signature counts,” the 20-year-
old said.Lauren Basen, 18, stopped to sign the 
pledge as she headed to the library.
“Everyone should have equal oppor-
tunity no matter what gender, and you 
shouldn’t be discriminated against,” the 
UF sports management freshman said.
Hasak said the event helps promote 
gender equality. 
“This isn’t just a women’s issue,” she 
said. “It’s an issue for everyone.”  HeForShe at UF hosts Flags for Equality
ITS NEW NAME HONORS THE 
DONORS, RICK AND L YNN SCAROLA.
By Lauren Ayers
Alligator Contributing Writer
An auditorium in the Warrington College of 
Business is going by a new name. 
The Scarola Auditorium, formerly called the 
Warrington Auditorium, was renovated and re-
named as part of the college’s ongoing renova-
tions. 
The auditorium, located at Bryan Hall, Room 
130, was renamed in honor of Rick and Lynn Sca-rola, who donated about $500,000 for the renova-
tion. Rick Scarola and his son, Matt, both gradu-
ated from the business college.
The renovation started in January and was 
completed in late Spring. The auditorium will be 
used for special events, speakers and presenta-
tions, Jon Cannon, the executive director of de-velopment and alumni affairs for the college, said.
The auditorium was outdated and in need of a 
renovation, he said.
“I don’t think that room had been signiﬁ  cantly 
altered for decades,” Cannon said. “It had rows of ﬁ  xed wooden seats that had little arms on them — kind of like elementary school.”
Padded seats have replaced the wooden ones, 
and new video cameras were installed, along with a large multi-screen television that replaced the front stage, he said. A center aisle was also added, and the auditorium’s entrance was expanded.
The Scarola family has donated to several dif-
ferent projects for the business college, including updates to Heavener Hall, Cannon said, adding that the family has been committed to improving the college.
Gretchen Gutierrez, a 20-year-old student assis-
tant in the dean’s ofﬁ  ce, said she’s been impressed with the improvements at the college. Gutierrez said she likes that the school is moving toward a more open concept with collaborative learning 
features.
“It’s pretty neat that we have so much support 
from people who have graduated from our col-
lege,” the UF ﬁ  nance junior said. “That just im-proves our ranking, and that’s what we want in the end — to have that kind of recognition.”  Business college 
auditorium updated
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Jacquelyn Hoza, a 21-year-old UF sociology and women’s studies junior, places 
a ﬂ  ag on the Plaza of the Americas after signing the UN Women’s HeForShe commitment on Tuesday afternoon.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
This past week I had some free time 
and enjoyed watching TV. I have been paying more attention to the new 
commercials and publicity displayed 
in the media. 
Lately, I have noticed a lot more publicity 
toward inﬂ  uencing social responsibility: cam-
paigns against cigarettes, texting while driving and drug consumption. 
Every time one of these commercials comes 
up, I can’t help but realize they all share the same strategy: making the viewer experience nostalgia and guilt. 
This makes me worried, because I feel instead of teach-
ing and leading, they are patronizing the public. Do you think this method is effectively impacting societal prob-lems? I don’t. 
As a future scientist, I have been taught not to follow 
ideas just because they are part of a trend and to only 
follow the ones supported by data, logic and reasoning. 
If we want to help our society make better life choices to improve the quality of life, we have to make a more profound impact on them. 
By promoting empirical studies that are able to give 
us objective and realistic data on controversial topics such as the side effects of drugs, we can stop patron-izing youngsters and actually help them. 
Sadly, there is no funding, intent or ethical support 
to develop these types of studies, because we cannot study things that are considered unlawful or damaging. 
Let’s get objective and realistic. Lately, online vid-
eos of smokers’ lungs have become viral and impacted 
more people than the information printed on the back 
of cigarette packs. Why? 
In reality, the public is more responsive to the honest 
truth than guilt trips and overworked publicity. There-fore, we need to start promoting a more direct message supported by science and research methodol-ogy. 
Imagine a publicity campaign in which 
the real physiological effects of methamphet-amine are shown rather than an emotional story by itself. 
Also, think of the impact we can have 
on kids in middle school and high school by showing them the research, showing the young public the medical effects of drugs, cigarettes, alcohol and other damaging deci-sions. Most people believe youngsters won’t 
be open to this kind of information. I disagree with that idea. 
Back in middle school, when I lived in Venezuela, 
we had a week during which we were educated on con-
troversial topics. Medical professionals and speakers 
with personal experiences came to the school audito-rium and spent time with us, answering our questions in the most honest ways. At the end of the day, I felt scared, educated and a bit more grounded. It felt good 
to be treated more maturely and to embrace the prob-
lems society has from an adult perspective. 
Therefore, I would like to inﬂ  uence your thought 
process by making you realize the importance of hon-
esty and reality. It is our responsibility to inﬂ  uence fu-
ture generations. 
We need to start doing it by removing the idealistic 
fantasy and taboo embedded in problems and provide the aid necessary by ﬁ  rst facing it with truth. 
Open up, become part of the process, aid your com-
munity by sharing and remember to support ideas that have validity. Emotions can trick your judgment, so keep it real. 
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology senior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.Society needs to be open and honest, not afraidAcknowledge marriage 
equality opposition
Many students at UF have taken statistics classes at 
some point in their lives. Whether they came to UF with AP Statistics credits in their back pockets or took Introduction to Statistics 1 here, it’s comfort-ing to know that those in our campus environment 
acknowledge and respect statistical truth, even if, by taking those classes, they understand how easily manipulated statis-tics can be. Regardless, the website FiveThirtyEight, created by statistical superstar Nate Silver, published an article yester-day with a gripping headline: “People Who Oppose Gay Mar-riage Are Less Likely To Value Expert Opinion.”
This isn’t just a cleverly disguised political statement. The 
study took into account party afﬁ  liation, but it found no such afﬁ  liation mattered. If you oppose same-sex marriage, regard-less of your political allegiances, you are less likely to value expert opinion. What is it about marriage equality that makes people disinclined to acknowledge expert testimony on a given subject?
Given that experts seem quite comfortable with the notion 
of same-sex marriage, there has to be something else going on here. Conﬁ  rmation bias seems to be at fault. Because the evidence overwhelmingly rejects people’s claims that same-sex marriage is “bad,” their logic must be rooted in something outside of the domain of science. Perhaps they ﬁ  nd their logi-cal framework in something they were taught at a young age.
That logical framework, dear reader, is probably rooted in 
biblical mythology. Statistically — take a drink every time you read that word in this editorial — those who oppose marriage equality are likely to believe in the ﬁ  rm and, for all purposes, rigid lifestyle that religious practice expects. If they believe the Earth is only 6,000 years old, it’s understandable they would reject the testimony of an expert geologist who says they’re underestimating. 
Moreover, statistically, those who oppose marriage equality 
are older, more traditional Americans. We’ve all experienced that stressful rut of circular reasoning that questionably rac-ist Grandpa drunkenly belched at Thanksgiving: The Bible is infallible, and we know this because the Bible is the word of God. We can be sure it’s the word of God because the Bible tells us so, and we believe the Bible because, well, it’s infal-lible. Rinse, lather and repeat until the turkey’s gone. 
The truth is, even young conservatives show more leniency 
on this issue than their older counterparts. Education has be-come a constantly evolving sphere of knowledge, and to take it for granted is as absurd as saying a book written thousands of years ago is the only unchanging source of knowledge. 
While there’s a common argument that science is unreli-
able because science changes, it changes on the grounds that it is moving in a better direction. In science, disproving a claim is called progress. In more “traditional” realms of knowledge, disproving a claim is called heresy and can result in you be-ing beheaded — or having a small tribe of Westboro Baptist Church members picket your funeral.
So what can we do besides wait for that voting bloc to, 
well, not vote anymore? For those of you who are impatient, it seems that we need to protect experts and give them the abil-ity to voice their knowledge so that it won’t fall on deaf ears. Their contributions to the public, whether liberating for things like marriage equality or terrifying on issues in climate change, ought to be considered and valued by those who create policy.
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
I was a freshman and walking to my 
first-ever college party. It was 9 p.m., and I approached the apartment com-
plex slowly. I stuck my hand into the 
pocket of my dark-green army jacket 
and fiddled with the half-filled pack of Marlboro Lights with two joints pushed to 
the corners. I figured I should bring some-
thing to be polite, but I had no way of ob-taining a bottle of wine or a six-pack of beer. 
The idea of going to this party put me 
on edge at first. During the hours leading up to it, worried thoughts raced around my head. My palms sweat over the types of people who would be in attendance, 
whether I would even find the courage to 
make friends, or stand in the corner watch-ing other people schmooze. I checked the Facebook event page on my phone. “Par-ty starts at 10.” I sat on a bench under a 
street lamp that emitted a dim orange light. 
I stuck a cigarette in my mouth and pulled out my phone. 
After an intense game of Tet-
ris, I checked the time. 9:30 p.m. 
Close enough. I found the apart-
ment and knocked on the door. My high school friend Maria, the hostess of the party, answered 
with a smile.
I apologized for being so early 
and offered her a joint. She and 
her two roommates sat with me at their kitchen table, and we got high. By 
the time it was done, all three ladies had 
gone into their respective rooms to “get ready.”
I was alone at the table feeling much 
more anxious than before. I was stoned and listening intently to the rap music ra-diating from a speaker set on the kitchen counter. It was the type of rap that I didn’t like — the Waka Flocka Flame, Rick Ross, 
Gucci Mane brand of ultra-masculine “par-
ty” music. Lyrics about selling hard drugs, getting wasted and having sex with multiple partners have a sense of conceit that has always 
bothered me. 
I thought back to the last time 
I had listened to Rick Ross. It was 
in this guy Jason’s BMW. We 
were parked in an empty parking 
garage at midnight on a Tuesday. He turned up the song as the rap-per nonchalantly chanted, “Put 
Molly all in her champagne, she ain’t even 
know it/I took her home and I enjoyed 
that, she ain’t even know it.” He pulled out a small glass bong and a blow torch. 
Jason told me not to be a p---- when I 
coughed and then told me I was being un-grateful when I said I didn’t want a second dab. 
It was about 11 p.m. when the party 
was really taking off. I had sobered up 
from the pot and was on something like 
my eighth Bud Light. At this point, the beer just tasted like seltzer water. Through blasting trap-rap I staggered toward cute girls one by one, shouting at them until 
they walked away.
It was midnight when I found my way 
into an empty bedroom. I had run out of 
cigarettes, so I lit up the second joint. After 
finishing, I walked back out into the party.
The pounding bass and large crowd 
shocked me. Suddenly I felt the room start 
to spin. I walked back into the bedroom and lay down on the full-sized mattress. 
I closed my eyes for a moment, but then I 
heard the door open. It was Maria.
“What are you doing?” she asked.“Just lying down.” I slurred.
“Are you okay?” she asked.
I got up off the bed and proceeded to 
vomit on Maria’s carpet. Sour-brown beer and bile spewed from my mouth, and she looked on with terror. 
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
As students, learning is not only done in the classroom through courses by professors, but also in 
extracurricular activities. A con-
ference, for instance, might give 
students new insights, too. In a typical class, achieving the best academic perfor-
mance is the largest goal for every student, 
accomplished by completing assignments, class participation, discussion and exams. 
However, conferences might present 
ideas or insights for certain issues by gath-
ering broad stakeholders like scientists, governments, nonprofit governmental orga-nizations, private sectors and communities. Through conferences, students might start to build both academic and professional ca-reers.
From Sept. 27 to Sept. 29, I attended 
an annual conference for the Sustainable 
Forestry Initiative, in which 22 students in the U.S. were given funding to 
learn about forest certification. “Linking future forests to com-
munities” was set as the theme 
for the conference held in Clear-water Beach, Florida. 
It recognized the critical role 
forests play in our shared qual-ity of life. 
Forests provide people with 
the air we breathe, drinkable water, habitat for numerous species and 
support the economy of various rural com-
munities said Kathy Abusow, the president and CEO of SFI. 
With forest certifications, they promote 
sustainable forest management practices in environmental, social and economic as-pects. 
Nine universities were represented, and 
I was the only student from UF. I have learned about forest certifica-tion at the university: At least three classes covered communi-
ty forest management, reducing 
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation and en-vironmental governance. How-
ever, at the conference I learned 
more about how forest certifica-tion works impact everyone and engage stakeholders to achieve 
sustainability in the future, especially for 
forests.
Besides academic benefits, meeting 
with various stakeholders at a conference 
is a very effective way to build profes-
sional networks for future careers. About 
150 participants attended the conference that works on forest-certification issues throughout the U.S. 
By taking a course in communication skills, I am practicing effective communi-cation: introducing myself in the begin-ning for each conversation, asking relevant 
questions to people I meet at the confer-
ence and helping students build networks. Exchanging business cards is also an effec-tive way to keep in touch with people. We 
never know what could happen in the fu-
ture in terms of academic and professional careers. Talking with as many new people during the conference would be beneficial to sharing ideas or research on what we 
are doing or have done in the past. 
However, students realize that occa-
sionally these conferences overlap with 
our classes. Taking time off to attend these 
conferences would benefit as an invest-
ment to our professional careers.
Hermu Dananto is a UF forestry 
resources and conservation graduate stu-dent.Overdoing it your freshman year: reflections on casual substance abuse
Students should build academic and professional careers through conferencesColumn
Guest ColumnJeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
Hermu Dananto
Speaking Out8   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
By Christy Piña
Alligator Contributing Writer
In honor of Mental Illness Awareness 
Week, UF Health and a handful of local 
mental-health groups are hosting events 
throughout the week.
Organized by the Mental Health Coali-
tion of North Central Florida, the events 
will include seminars, workshops and 
ﬁ  lms. 
The goal of the week is to educate the 
public about mental-health issues, which 
are often ignored or carry a stigma, said 
Sheryl Conner, the president of the coali-
tion.
“Many people know and see things 
going on, but they don’t talk about it till 
afterwards, and we need people to talk 
about it up front,” she said.
The nonproﬁ  t coalition began celebrat-ing the week about three years ago when 
the organization ﬁ  rst formed, Conner said. 
Participating organizations include UF 
Health, the National Alliance on Mental Illness Gainesville and Gainesville Peer 
Respite.
Today at 6 p.m., the Hippodrome State 
Theatre will be showing “Devrai,” a ﬁ  lm 
about an Indian man who suffers from 
schizophrenia. Admission is free. 
Lauren DePaola, the founder of the 
Alachua County Perinatal Mental Health 
Coalition, said unraveling the negative 
perception of mental-health illness is nec-
essary before change can be made. 
“If we’re not able, on some appropriate 
level, to discuss our own experiences with 
mental illness or mental health complica-
tions, we’re certainly not going to be able 
to erase any of the stigma,” the licensed 
mental-health counselor said.  UF, GNV host Mental Illness 
Awareness Week events
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Contributing Writer
Low-income guests can now visit the 
Florida Museum of Natural History’s ex-
hibits at a discounted cost.
On Monday, the museum launched a 
new program in which adults who have valid electronic beneﬁ  ts transfer cards will only pay $3 for admission to the featured exhibits and the Butterﬂ  y Rainforest, said Brittany Snipes, the development assistant for the museum. 
The current featured exhibit is “Wicked 
Plants,” which is on display through Jan. 
15, 2017.
The normal price of admission for both 
exhibits is $14.50 for Florida residents and 
$17 for nonresidents. Children ages 3 to 17 
with an adult who has an EBT card get in for free, he said. Normally, it cost $10 for 
children’s admission. 
Snipes said she wanted to allow those 
who might not be able to afford the mu-seum to have the opportunity to visit it. 
There is no alternative organization or 
donor funding the program, she said. The 
museum will simply absorb the loss in rev-
enue. 
“I think it’s great,” she said. “We’re 
always looking for ways to be more in-clusive, and this is just another way that 
we’re able to do that.”
Mary Wassen, a 63-year-old retired reg-
istered nurse in Gainesville, said she thinks 
this program will allow more people to vis-
it the museum. 
“It will encourage people to enjoy what 
we have,” Wassen said.  Florida Museum oﬀ  ers low 
rates to low-income visitors
By Karla Arboleda
Alligator Contributing Writer
With Friday’s listing of seven spe-
cies of Hawaiian honeybees as en-
dangered, some Gainesville apiarists, or beekeepers, have taken the news as a sign that bee-health awareness 
may soon be at to the forefront of 
discussion.Johnalyn Gordon, a member 
of the Gainesville Area Bee Club, stressed that the adding of bees 
to the endangered list for the ﬁ  rst 
time is important to the futures of bees across the country, including Gainesville.
“It’s much easier to get funding 
when people are educated about a topic,” she said. “With education and knowledge comes investment.”
Gordon, who refers to herself as 
the “Honey Queen,” said the listing 
by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
will hopefully serve as a wake-up call to people who may not realize the importance of bees to local eco-systems.
“It’s pretty monumental that bees 
are even being listed,” the 21-year-old wildlife ecology and conserva-tion and entomology senior said. “That’s deﬁ  nitely a gateway to list-
ing other bees.”
Josh Campbell, a post-doctoral 
researcher at UF, said that the en-
dangered status of the bees — of the Hylaeus genus — are likely to be a result of urbanization and growth in Hawaii and that there are certainly other endangered bees out there.
While disheartening, being sorted 
into the endangered species list can 
lead to better conservation efforts, 
he said.
“If something gets listed, it means 
that federal funds can be directed to-wards the conservation of these (ani-mals),” Campbell said.
GNV beekeepers grateful for endangered listing of Hawaiian bees
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Caroline Nickerson, a 22-year-old UF history and East 
Asian languages and cultures senior, watches the only vice presidential debate of the 2016 election at a watch party held in Pugh Hall on Tuesday evening.
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
Santiago Marquez, a 19-year-old UF sustain-ability studies and women’s studies sophomore, wears a T-shirt depicting Hillary Clinton to show his support at a watch party held at an ofﬁ  ce of the Florida Democratic Party on Tuesday evening. 
THE VP DEBATE 
AT A GLANCE
Criminal Justice
Mike Pence (Republican): Leadership at the national level needs to support law enforcement ofﬁ  cers. “Law enforcement in this country is a force 
for good.”
Tim Kaine (Democrat): America needs to discuss 
criminal justice reform. “Criminal justice is about respecting the law and being respected by the law.”
The War in Syria
Mike Pence (Republican): “We have got to begin 
to lean into this with strong, broad-shouldered 
American leadership.” 
Abortion
Mike Pence (Republican): Pro-life. “For me, my faith informs my life. It all for me begins with cherishing … every human life.”
Tim Kaine (Democrat): Pro-choice. Women 
should be able to make their own decisions about pregnancy. “The very last thing that government 
should do is have laws that punish women who 
make reproductive choices.”
Lauren Rowland / Alligator StaffWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
· 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT · 911 REPORT ·
After being arrested by Gainesville 
Police on Saturday, a local man was 
handed additional charges Monday 
when deputies said he used a fake credit card to defraud two Gainesville Lowe’s locations of their appliances.
At about 1:20 p.m. on Aug. 21, 
Gainesville resident Ronald Boyd Neeb, 42, walked into the Lowe’s at 3101 Clark Butler Blvd. and left with about $1,018 worth of appliances, according 
to a police report.
Using the credit card, Neeb ordered 
a Whirlpool washer and dryer, accord-
ing to the report.
About two hours earlier, he visited 
the Lowe’s at 2564 NW 13th St. and made off with a $699 portable generator and a $299 AC unit before packing the items into the back of a U-Haul truck, covering them with a tarp and leaving 
the area, according to the reports.
When GPD arrested Neeb on Satur-
day, they were unaware of the second 
theft, according to the report.
Neeb told police he knew the credit 
card was fake and that he has pulled off similar crimes about 200 to 250 times in Florida, according to the report. He said two other men, one in Tampa, Florida, and the other in Ghana, help him coor-dinate the crimes.
Police arrested Neeb on charges of 
fraud and grand theft. On Monday, Ala-
chua County Sheriff’s Office deputies 
added an additional grand theft charge to his record.
He was taken to the Alachua County 
Jail on Saturday where he remains, as 
of press time, in lieu of a $20,000 bond. GNV man arrested for stealing more than $2,000 in appliances
After some Monday-night drink-
ing, a Gainesville man threatened his 
friend with a loaded shotgun, chased him down and kicked him in the head, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office deputies said.
At about 8:45 p.m., Joel Angel 
Foster, 19, was drinking with a few friends in the 600 block of SW 67th Terrace before one friend, DeAngelo Smith, left, according to a police re-port.
After Smith walked out the front 
door and picked up a pair of head-phones he dropped, Foster ap-proached him with a pump-action shotgun aimed in his direction, ac-cording to the report.Smith then got on a bicycle and 
rode away, but Foster and two oth-er men chased after him, eventually knocking him off his bicycle and kick-ing him in the head, according to the report.
At some point during the scuffle, 
someone bit Smith in the back, ac-cording to the report. Smith later ran away from his pursuers.
Deputies arrested Foster on charg-
es of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon and aggravated battery, ac-cording to the report.
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $25,000 bond.
Local man pointed shotgun at friend, kicked him in the headAfter taking a Xanax pill, a New-
berry man drove his car into oncom-
ing traffic Monday afternoon, nar-
rowly hitting several motorists before eventually crashing into a parked car, Alachua Police said.
At about 1:30 p.m. Monday,  
Shawn Robert Hliwski, 35, drove his silver Toyota recklessly southbound on County Road 235A in Alachua, Florida, and veered off into the north-bound lane, causing several cars to 
drive off the road, according to an 
APD report.
Hliwski then took a left at an inter-
section and drove northbound, again 
veering into oncoming traffic and 
forcing southbound-driving motorists 
to swerve off the road, according to the report.
At the end of his commute, he 
entered Alachua Apartments, locat-ed at 13605 NW County Road 235,  
and crashed into a parked car. He  
then reversed and parked next to  
the damaged car, according to the re-port.
While Hliwski left his car and 
walked toward the apartment, police arrived and noticed he was disori-ented and “uncontrollably” swaying, according to the report. He told police he had taken a 2-milligram Xanax pill, a prescription sedative, prior to driv-
ing.
Police arrested him on charges of 
driving under the influence and hit 
and run. 
Authorities took him to the Ala-
chua County Jail where he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $35,000 bond.
@martindvassolo 
mvassolo@alligator.org Newberry man drove into oncoming traffic, hit parked car
Foster
Hliwski
Neeb
By Martin Vassolo 
Alligator Staff WriterWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-5-16-5-2
Spacious Apartment For Rent-The Oaks-Spacious one Bedroom apartment for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall and Restaurants. On Bus-Line.Call 404-323-9338     10-7-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 One of seven in
“Jabberwocky”
7 Shabbat
celebrant
10 “Baby __”: 2008
Fey/Poehler
comedy
14 Like some
classroom aids
15 Angst-filled rock
genre
16 Disembarked17 *Project with
many obstacles
19 Wheels for a star20 __ Grey tea
21 Vacation abode
22 *E! talk show
focused on
celebrity outfits
26 Longest reigning
Brit. monarch
28 Neighbor of
Venezuela
29 Discriminatory,
as in hiring
32 Pet adoption org.
33 Deg. for a suit36 Annexation38 Put on a pedestal40 Morsel41 Printed
scorecard
numbers
43 Went (on)
monotonously
44 Monotony
46 Gp. with mail
trucks
47 *Britannica, e.g.
52 Cutting53 Leaderless54 Strengthen55 Team up ... or,
literally, what the
last words of theanswers tostarred clues cando
61 Giggly Muppet
62 To and __63 Poker challenge
64 Academic leader
in NBC’s
“Community”
65 Author Kesey66 Kind of tax
DOWN
1 “Law & Order: __”
2 It often comes to
those who wait
3 Volcanic fallout4 Rapa __: Easter
Island5 Popular mall
jewelry store
6 Mosque-goer’s
deity
7 Like Cain, of Abel
8 Leading
characters in“Mork & Mindy”?
9 Stir-fry pan
10 __ Yousafzai,
sharer of the2014 NobelPeace Prize
11 Cover story
12 Copycat
13 Make things right
18 Course where
tangents are
relevant
21 *1997 movie
partly set on a
plane called the
Jailbird
22 Handy “Mr.”
23 “Master of None”
star __ Ansari
24 “Law & Order” gp.25 Couldn’t sit still,
say
26 Exxon, once27 Lustful look30 *High-speed
skiing event,familiarly
31 Discipline33 Capital of Belarus
34 Honk
35 Tacks on
37 Green land?39 Bridge table
quorum
42 Vacuum effect44 Ligament kin45 Lo __: noodle
dish
47 Threw a fit48 Forced absence49 Terra __50 Cellphone self-
pic of a group,slangily
51 Smells55 N.Y. airport since
1963
56 Miner’s matter57 Chinese zodiac
animal
58 “The World
Factbook” org.
59 Inexact fig.60 Get
By Julian Lim©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/05/1610/05/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 5, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. MOVIES: What two movies were 
the highest-grossing films of all time 
worldwide? 
2. LITERATURE: Which one of 
Shakespeare’s plays features the char -
acter of Shylock?
3. ANATOMY: In which part of the 
human body is the stirrup bone locat-
ed?
4. ASTRONOMY: What is the sev-
enth planet from the Sun in our solar 
system?
5. ENTERTAINERS: In what year 
did singer Elvis Presley die?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What is the traditional birthstone asso-ciated with November?
7. MYTHOLOGY: Who was the 
first female deity, according to Greek 
mythology?
8. MUSIC: Mark Knopfler is best 
known as lead singer of what rock 
group?
9. GEOGRAPHY: What U.S. state is 
closest to Russia?
10. ANTHROPOLOGY: What 
is Lascaux site in southern France famous for?
Answers
1. “Avatar” and “Titanic”2. “The Merchant of Venice”3. The ear
4. Uranus
5. 19776. Topaz or citrine7. Gaia8. Dire Straits9. Alaska10. Ancient cave paintings
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 3, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HELP WANTED
HARVESTING CHESTNUTS
Pay $20 per 5 gal bucket. 20814 NW CR 2054 Alachua. Call 352-213-2239    10-6-5-14
AWESOME OPPORTUNITY! Seeking a heart-centered person to work part time with amazing 23-year old with developmental dis-abilities. (Nov-May) Must have reliable trans-portation, a keen interest in providing fun and adventurous activities. Looking for an up-beat, reliable and mature person. $13-$15/hr. email: Knoidal@gmail.com    10-5-3-14
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     10-11-16-5-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
FREE RIDE FOR CO-DRIVER
to Wrightsville Beach, N.C. or other point en 
route. Leave Gville Oct 13, return Oct 16. 
Call 352-294-3937, leave message.    10-
11-5-23
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-
7-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 19 Connections 23 Rides 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Alejandro T osti and the men's golf team ﬁ  nished in second place in UF's penultimate Fall tournament of 2016.Read the story on pg. 14. Spurrier named to SEC Football Legends Class
Former Florida coach Steve Spurrier was named to the 2016 SEC Football 
Legends class for his success and contributions to the SEC, the league announced Tuesday. Spurrier, along with 13 other inductees, will be honored at the SEC Championship Game on Dec. 3.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
IT'S COHEN DOWN
Full disclosure: I’m a Miami 
Heat fan. 
I've been one since 2003, 
when they drafted Dwyane 
Wade with the ﬁ  fth pick. 
Have been since 2006, when 
Wade and Shaq and James Posey and Eddie Jones led Miami to its ﬁ  rst NBA title.
I’ll even unabashedly admit 
that a life-sized Wade poster hangs in my childhood bedroom right now, and even after he left 
the Heat for Chicago this summer, 
I was too stubborn to take it down.
So my words here may be taint-
ed.
The Chris Bosh situation is 
ugly, and I don’t blame the Miami 
Heat.
Let me explain.
Bosh, an 11-time All-Star and 
Heat power forward since 2010, was diagnosed with blood clots 
and a pulmonary embolism mid-
way through the Heat’s season in 2015. He was sidelined for the rest of the year — any forceful 
physical contact on Bosh without 
an ambulance nearby could have been fatal.
The blood clots reoccurred last 
season, and again Bosh was held 
out.
After the season ended, the 
Heat organization sought advice 
from its team doctors: Was there 
any way Bosh could play bas-
ketball again without the risk of bleeding out and dying on the court? 
They said no.
Then Bosh said no. He wanted 
to play, and he found a private 
doctor who convinced him that — with the right medication — he’ll be able to get back onto the court.
Two years of rising tension  
between him and Heat ofﬁ  cials culminated the other week during  Bosh should 
retire from NBA
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 15The Associated Press 
Leonard Fournette (7) chats on the ﬁ  eld before an NCAA college football game against Missouri in Baton Rouge on Saturday. He 
didn't play against Missouri but is expected to this Saturday in Gainesville. 
By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Trent Domingue didn’t bother 
faking a step forward. As soon as 
the ball was snapped, he dashed 
toward the sideline. 
Meanwhile, Vernon Harg-
reaves, Marcus Maye and An-
tonio Morrison broke through LSU’s front immediately. But 
instead of containing Domingue, 
LSU’s kicker, they were focused on holder Brad Kragthorpe. And there was nothing they could do when they realized their mistake. 
Kragthorpe lofted the ball 
to Domingue, who out-sprint-ed Hargreaves on his way to a game-winning LSU touchdown to 
defeat UF 35-28 last season.
“You know they call him 
the Mad Hatter for a reason,” 
Domingue said of then-LSU coach 
Les Miles. “He has conﬁ  dence in 
everybody and everything that we practice.”
But Miles is no more. He was ﬁ  red on Sept. 25, with 
Ed Orgeron named the interim head coach. 
And while Orgeron may not 
be as risky with his play calling as Miles, his offense was proliﬁ  c in its ﬁ  rst game. It amassed a sea-
son-best 634 yards and 42 points 
against SEC-opponent Missouri. And that was without All-Amer-ican running back Leonard Four-
nette, who should be back to face 
Florida on Saturday.  
“They were built to road grade 
you,” UF coach Jim McElwain said, “and we’ve been road grad-
ed the last couple weeks, plain and simple.”
Despite the challenge, Flor-
ida’s defense isn’t lacking con-
ﬁ  dence. It enters Saturday’s contest ranked in the top 10 na-
tionally in rushing defense, pass-
ing defense, scoring defense and total defense, and it’s not afraid of Fournette.
“I mean, he’s Leonard Four-
nette,” Florida linebacker Kylan Johnson said. “He’s a good play-er. But we face a lot of good play-ers.”
The best comparison to Four-
nette among backs Florida has faced was Tennessee’s Jalen Florida defense conﬁ  dent about stopping  Fournette
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 15He ran for 180 yards against UF in 2015
Ian Cohen
twitter: @icohenb14   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
By Cassie Amundson
Sports Writer
 
The ITA All-American 
Championships has been a se-
ries of ups and downs for the 
men’s tennis team.
Doubles duo Maxx Lipman 
and Elliott Orkin performed 
well in the qualifying rounds.
The pair won 6-3, 7-5 
against Middle Tennessee 
State’s Gian Issa and Miguel Negre Fernandez, and defeated 
Ron Bellamy and Jack Jaede 
from USC in the Round of 32, 4-6, 6-4, 1-0 (5).
They then faced Yuya Ito 
and Harrison Scott of Texas  in the Round of 16 Tuesday and won 6-3, 6-2. 
Meanwhile, junior Chase 
Perez-Blanco failed to make 
it out past the first round of 
qualifying. He lost to Dennis Uspensky from Wake Forest, 6-3, 7-6 (5). 
Florida women’s tennis 
players Anna Danilina and Spencer Liang also saw early success in the doubles qualify-ing rounds of the ITA Champi-
onships.The duo defeated Gabriela 
Porubin and Giulia Guidetti 8-3 on Tuesday. Danilina and Li-
ang will face Mississippi State’s Jasmine Lee and Lisa Marie Rioux, who are coming off an 
8-4 win against the tourna-
ment’s No. 1 overall seed, in the next round.
Danilina won two-straight 
matches on Tuesday to reach 
the final qualifying match that 
puts her in the main draw this Friday. 
The junior from Moscow, 
Russia, won 6-2, 4-6, 6-1 in her first match win against Texas Tech’s Sarah Dvorak. In the second round match, she won the first set 6-1, and was up 1-0 
in the second set before her op-
ponent ended the match due to injury. Danilina will face Stan-ford Cardinal Caroline Doyle 
tomorrow morning.
Meanwhile, both Liang and 
Josie Kuhlman lost in the first 
round of singles competition. 
        @camundson_
camundson@alligator.orgMixed results for tennisBy Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
While the rest of the team 
struggled to get under par, junior 
Alejandro Tosti cruised through 
the Nike Golf Collegiate Invita-
tional in Dallas on Tuesday.
Tosti placed third at the tour-
nament with a score of 4 under 
par, the first time he placed within the top-five since the NCAA Re-
gionals in May
He was the only Gator not to 
tally a positive score in the final 
round, as he evened out with three birdies and three bogeys.
Largely due to Tosti’s play, the 
Gators men’s golf team finished in second place with an even-par score, only one stroke behind tournament-winner Vanderbilt. “Alejandro (Tosti) had a heck 
of a day shooting even par, and 
I know he didn’t finish the way 
he wanted to, but that was a great score and to finish third for him is awesome,” coach J.C. Deacon 
said in a release.
Tosti wasn’t the only Gator to 
finish in the top 10, though. 
Sophomore Jorge Garcia shot 1 
over par after carding two birdies, a bogey and a double bogey, good for a share of eighth place.
And sophomore Gordon Neale 
carded three birdies and five bo-
geys to place in a tie for 14th with a 3-over-par score.
However, the two remaining 
Gators didn’t fare as well. 
Junior Ryan Celano, who fin-
ished tied for 30th at 7 over par, recorded eight bogeys and just one birdie.
Sophomore Sam Horsfield fin-
ished in a tie for 35th following a 9-over-par performance with six bogeys and one birdie. 
“I really appreciated how the 
team fought,” Deacon said. “I don’t think they all had their best today, but they fought their tails off the last five, six, seven holes and really played some good golf.”
The Gators enter their final 
tournament of the Fall season with the Tavistock Collegiate starting on Oct. 16.
Women’s
Like she’s been all tournament, 
freshman Marta Perez was a huge 
part of the Florida women’s golf team’s success in its final round at the Windy City Classic in Evan-ston, Illinois on Tuesday.
The Valencia, Spain, native 
was the only Gator to finish below par and one of two Gators to fin-ish within the top 20. 
She ended the tournament at 
3 under par with four birdies and three bogeys in the final round, good for a share of seventh place. 
At the end of the Windy City 
Classic, Florida finished in fourth with a 1-over-par score.
“I’m happy for the team to post 
one of the lowest rounds of the 
day,” coach Emily Glaser said in a 
release. “We had a slow start, but 
we played really solid through the middle of the round.”
It’s the Gators’ third tourna-
ment this season that they’ve 
placed within the top five.
Senior Kelly Grassel, who fin-
ished in a tie for 20th, carded a 
2-over-par score with five birdies 
and three bogeys.
The final three Gators finished 
in a tie for 25th.
Senior Maria Torres quickly 
fell behind following a quadruple bogey on the first hole, and two 
bogeys on the front nine.
On the back nine, however, 
she excelled, recording four bird-ies and no bogeys to finish 4 over 
par.
Senior Karolina Vlckova shot 
4 over par following five birdies, two bogeys and two double bo-
geys.
Freshman Carolina Ricolfi  
carded four bogeys and three bird-
ies en route to a 4-over-par per-
formance.
“We always want to win, and 
we are not satisfied with fourth,” 
Glaser said. “But it sure is exciting 
to see this team in action. They 
are so very talented. We have a 
lot of exciting times ahead of us.”
The final tournament of the 
Fall season for the Gators is the 
Stanford Intercollegiate starting 
on Oct. 14.
  @DreilingerJake
   jdreilinger@alligator.orgTosti leads men’s golf, women finish in fourth place
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti follows through on a swing at the 2016 SunTrust Gator Invitational at the Mark Bostick 
Golf course.
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Elliot Orkin returns a serve during Florida’s 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17 at the Ring T ennis Complex. Orkin, along with doubles partner Maxx Lipman, lost their match on Tuesday. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
Hurd, who also plays with a bruising 
running style. Hurd stands at 6-foot-4, 240-pounds. 
The Gators contained him, holding 
the junior to 95 yards and no scores. 
They weren’t as fortunate, though, 
when they faced Fournette a season ago. 
The 6-foot-1, 235-pounder gashed the 
Gators for 180 yards and a pair of touch-downs. 
But, this season, the defense has 
played better overall than it did a year ago, which its players are hoping trans-
lates to slowing down the Heisman 
hopeful. 
“Just gotta wrap him up, don’t throw 
any shoulders or what not,” cornerback 
Quincy Wilson said. “We gotta hit him 
in the backfield because once he gets go-ing, he’s harder to get down.”
Linebacker Alex Anzalone agreed 
with Wilson and, having faced Hurd and 
Vanderbilt standout Ralph Webb, said 
Fournette is special. 
“You watch the film and his play speaks for itself,” he said. “He’s one of the best, or arguably the best, running back in college football. It’s a big chal-lenge for the defense.”
However, it’s not just Fournette UF 
has to worry about. 
Florida will also face his emerging 
backfield counterparts, Derrius Guice and Darrel Williams, who each rushed 
for three touchdowns and over 100 yards 
a week ago against Missouri. 
But the Gators will have added mo-
tivation to take down the trio because of the name across their jerseys. Florida 
hasn’t beaten LSU since 2012. 
“I don’t want to say it’s a different 
mindset,” cornerback Jalen Tabor said, 
“but it is.”
As for what that mindset should be, 
an O’Connell Center construction work-er offered his advice as players walked away from practice on Tuesday. 
“Stay focused,” he told offensive line-
men David Sharpe, Fred Johnson and others. “I need y’all to whoop that a--.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.orgFOOTBALL,  from pg 13Guice, Williams are also threats
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Alex Anzalone calls out a play during Florida's 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Sept. 
24 in Knoxville. 
the Heat’s media day, when Heat president 
Pat Riley declared that Bosh would not play another game with Miami, despite the fact 
that Bosh was petitioning for his return all 
summer on social media, desperately trying to convince anyone who would listen that he was healthy.
He still thinks he is.I don’t like doing this. I don’t like telling 
other people what they should or should not do. 
But Bosh should retire.If everything that has been reported is 
true, and Bosh does have a reoccurring 
blood-clot issue, and if one bruise after an 
elbow to his head can cause one of the NBA’s best power forwards to collapse and die on the court, there can be no question as to what Bosh’s decision needs to be.
Retire Bosh. End your career as a two-time 
NBA champion and one of the best power forwards to ever play the game.
Because the other ending could be disas-
trous.
Ian Cohen is the sports editor. Contact 
him at icohen@alligator.org and follow him 
on Twitter @icohenb.COLUMN,  from pg 13
The Associated Press
 Miami Heat forward Chris Bosh (1) shoots in front of Oklahoma City Thunder forward 
Kevin Durant, left, on Jan. 17, 2016. 
14-9 win over Kentucky on Sept. 19, 
2015-Stanley Williams: 16 carries, 80 yards 
28-27 win over T ennessee on Sept. 26, 
2015-Jalen Hurd: 28 carries, 95 yards
38-10 win over Ole Miss on Oct. 3, 
2015
-Jaylen Walton: nine carries, 23 yards
21-3 win over Missouri on Oct. 10, 
2015  
-Russell Hansbrough: nine carries, 74 yards
35-28 loss to LSU on Oct. 17, 2015
-Leonard Fournette: 31 carries, 180 yards, two touchdowns 
23-7 win over Georgia on Oct. 31, 
2015-Sony Michel: 13 carries, 45 yards9-7 win over Vanderbilt on Nov. 7, 2015-Ralph Webb: 22 carries, 118 yards, 
one touchdown
24-14 win over South Carolina on Nov. 
14, 2015-Brandon Wilds: eight carries, 12 yards
29-15 loss to Alabama on Dec. 5, 2015
-Derrick Henry: 44 carries, 189 yards, one touchdown
45-7 win over Kentucky on Sept. 10, 
2016
-Stanley Williams: 12 carries, 66 yards
38-28 loss to T ennessee on Sept. 24, 
2016Jalen Hurd: 26 carries, 95 yards
13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Saturday, 
2016-Ralph Webb: 24 carries, 110 yardsHow SEC starting running backs fared  
against Florida under Jim McElwain16   ALLIGATOR     WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2016
The Associated Press
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) — 
Brad Kaaya tries not to think about 
the last two games against Florida State.
Tries to no avail, that is.The Miami quarterback still has 
all the plays that got away from the Hurricanes in those match-ups etched in his mind, ones that ultimately meant that his team couldn’t close the deal after hold-ing fourth-quarter leads against their archrival.
The next chance for No. 10 Mi-
ami (4-0, 1-0 Atlantic Coast Con-ference) to end what’s now a six-game losing streak in the series is Saturday night, when No. 23 Flori-da State (3-2, 0-2) visits.
“Not being able to ﬁ  nish 
games,” Kaaya said in a quiet mo-
ment after practice Tuesday. “It has been a killer for us.”
“Finish” has been a buzzword 
all season around the Hurricanes, 
and it was again Tuesday. Practice on another hot and sun-drenched South Florida morning was wind-ing down, sweat-drenched players were getting tired and it was show-ing in the effort they were giving toward the end of the workout. 
And someone wasn’t happy.
That someone wasn’t a coach. It was Kaaya.
“He got on the group a little bit 
a couple times, just about their fo-
cus and execution,” Miami coach Mark Richt said. “It was hot, it was late in the practice ... and he let them know a couple of times.”
That’s not even close to the ﬁ  rst 
time Kaaya has spoken up.
If he thinks a team meal at a 
hotel before a game is a little too loud, he lets teammates know and they respond immediately. The Hurricanes rotate captains for each game, but whether he’s out at mid-ﬁ  eld for the coin toss or not — and Kaaya is one of the four Miami players picked for this game — he’s the undisputed leader of the locker room.
They can see that even up in 
Tallahassee.
“He’s a lot calmer and more 
poised,” Florida State coach Jimbo Fisher said. “You can see the ma-
turity as he keeps going. He’s just 
growing as a player, a very good 
player.”
Two years ago at home, Miami 
led 16-0 in the ﬁ  rst half and 26-20 
in the fourth quarter before falling 
30-26 to eventual national champi-
on Florida State — the ﬁ  nal margin in that game being the number of points the Hurricanes squandered 
with a short missed ﬁ  eld goal and 
a blocked extra point.
Last year in Tallahassee, Miami 
was down 17-3 early and seemed 
on the cusp of getting blown out before rallying to take a 24-23 lead in the fourth. But that lead didn’t hold up either.
In both games, Dalvin Cook — 
a Miami native — ran for the go-ahead touchdown for Florida State.
“It’s Miami week. It don’t get 
no bigger than this,” Cook said. “This is one of the games you came to Florida State (for), to play in this rivalry. We’re going to take 
full advantage of it. When you step 
in that stadium, man, it’s some-
thing you can’t even explain. It’s different.”
That it is, and this time, Kaaya 
is hoping for a different ending.
He can reel off the plays that 
got away with ease — including four passes in big moments that 
were batted away, three at the line 
of scrimmage — though he wishes 
he could forget them all.
“They all could have been 
game-changing plays,” Kaaya said.
His third taste of this series 
awaits, and the stakes are high as always in this rivalry.
The Hurricanes have a chance 
to remain unbeaten in the ACC, 
end that long drought against the 
Seminoles, probably push their ri-
val out of the AP Top 25 and hand Florida State its ﬁ  rst consecutive losses since 2011.
“There’s going to be a lot of ex-
citement and a lot of fans there,” Miami running back Mark Walton said. “Don’t make this game bigger than it’s supposed to be. It’s going 
to be a big game, but don’t make 
it a huge stage for us. We’re go-
ing to try and go out there and be focused.”
In other words, they’re going to 
try to do exactly what their quar-
terback is telling them.
“It just resonates with me and a 
lot of people who were here those 
last two years,” Kaaya said. “It kind of sticks with you. You try not to think about it, but every once in a while you catch yourself think-ing about it. It’s something that’s been a point of emphasis this en-tire year.”  Miami focused on ﬁ  nishing Florida State on Saturday
Miami has lost six straight to FSU
The Associated Press
Miami head coach Mark Richt, right, talks with quarterback Brad Kaaya (15) during the second half of Miami’s 45-10 win against Appalachian State on Sept. 17 in Boone, N. C.
