We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 31 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
Jordan Read leads Washington 
oﬀ  ense
Read how other former Gators fared in 
the NFL over the weekend, pg. 16
Student-run businesses thrive in Reitz Union
They have a two-semester contract in the space, pg. 5
Naked man arrested Monday morning
He was trying to block trafﬁ  c on South Main Street, pg. 5UF alumnus helps develop safety 
bracelet for going out
Bracelets will be distributed in 2017, pg. 8
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A week after the ﬂ  ooding in Hume Hall, 
residents have adjusted to constant mainte-nance workers and renovations. 
After a broken sprinkler ﬂ  ooded the east 
wing of the residence hall Sept. 28, students were evacuated, and 32 rooms were dam-
aged. A week after the incident, students still 
face the loss of personal property, and UF of-
ﬁ  cials are replacing carpet and ceiling tiles. 
Sharon Blansett, the assistant to the associ-
ate vice president for Student Affairs, wrote 
in an email that housing staff has worked to 
begin repairs, but there is no determined cost for maintenance.
“Staff is continuing to log costs related to 
damage to Hume Hall and recovery from the 
ﬂ  ood,” she said.
So far, the broken sprinkler head has been 
ﬁ  xed, the ﬁ  re protection system has been re-
set, standing water in the halls and rooms has 
been vacuumed out, damaged ceiling tiles 
have been exchanged, ﬁ  ve of 19 rooms have 
had carpets replaced and dehumidiﬁ  ers have been put in place to help dry affected areas, she said. 
“The most damage occurred in the student 
room where the sprinkler head was broken, 
rooms and public areas adjacent to this room 
and the rooms below these rooms,” Blansett said.
Blansett added that UF is not liable for 
damaged property of students because of 
the agreement in their terms and conditions, 
which students sign to live on campus.  After Hume Hall ﬂ  ooding, maintenance continues
SEE FLOODING,  PAGE 4
STUDENTS WILL REPORT 
THE PREVIOUS YEAR’S 
INCOME INFORMATION.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
The Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid is now open for the 
2017-2018 cycle and will be due 
Dec. 15.The application became avail-
able Oct. 1, three months earlier 
than in previous years. In addition 
to the date change, students will 
have to report income information from the previous year. The chang-es will allow high-school seniors to 
know their ﬁ  nancial aid earlier so 
they may be able to make more in-formed college decisions, said Rick Wilder, the director of UF’s Ofﬁ  ce for Student Financial Affairs.
“The earlier you apply, the bet-
ter your chances of getting the kind 
of ﬁ  nancial aid package that you 
want,” he said. 
For the 2014-2015 school year, 
82 percent of UF students received 
some form of aid from the federal 
ﬁ  nancial aid program, Wilder said.
Student Financial Affairs doesn’t 
expect to see a change in the per-centage due to the date change, he said. 
“It’ll be much easier for (stu-
dents and parents),” Wilder said, “because they don’t have to wait until their tax returns are completed to be able to complete the FAFSA 
application.”
Martin Salazar, 20, said he nor-
mally receives about $1,500 from 
the federal ﬁ  nancial aid program and turns in his application in Janu-ary. But he wasn’t aware of the change in deadline.
The UF accounting junior said he 
hasn’t had any issues with ﬁ  nancial aid in the past, but he’ll make sure to meet the new deadline. 
“I’ll probably have to do it as 
soon as possible,” he said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org FAFSA application now open three months earlier for studentsBy Rebekah Dain
Alligator Contributing Writer
After months of construction, 
The Social at Midtown opened its doors to customers for the ﬁ  rst time 
Monday.
On its opening night, more than 
600 people showed up to the newly 
constructed restaurant and bar, lo-cated at 1728 W. University Ave., where Gator City once stood.
Surrounded by patrons bobbing 
their heads to pop music, assistant general manager T.J. Brown said he was happy with how many people 
showed up on a weeknight.
“It’s been a good turnout,” he 
said. “We are pleasantly surprised 
that people are willing to try new stuff.”
Featuring a rooftop bar and 38 
beers on draft, the restaurant is hailed by general manager Danny Zeenberg as a step-up from other 
nearby bars.“It’s clean and classic,” Zeenberg 
said.
Zeenberg said there has not been 
much change at Midtown for the past several years and that he’s excit-
ed to give students something new.
With beers costing up to $5 and 
cocktails as much as $15, Zeenberg said the prices at the Social will be 
higher than others bars, but that 
their quality warrants a hike.
By about 10:30 p.m., he said 
most of Midtown’s patrons were at 
his bar, an impressive feat for a Mon-
day.
Hours earlier, at about 4 p.m., 
Ana Puyana and Luis Rodriguez were among the ﬁ  rst few customers 
inside the restaurant. The 22-year-
old friends were drawn to the idea of a rooftop bar.
“It’s different, and it’s big,” Puy-
ana, who was ordering two gin and tonics, said. “It like a downtown place in Midtown.” The Social at Midtown 
celebrates opening  UF is not liable for damaged property
 Grace King / Alligator Staff
Patrons drink beer and socialize at The Social at Midtown restaurant, located at 1728 W. University 
Ave. The restaurant and rooftop dining area opened its doors for the ﬁ  rst time on Monday evening. MORE RESTAURANT NEWS,  PAGE 3Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
‘People on the Move’
“People on the Move,” an ex-
hibit about the migrant cri-
sis, is on display in the Pugh 
Hall Ocora today until Friday. The exhibit is sponsored by Welcoming Gainesville as part 
of Welcoming Week.
Hippodrome Political Watch 
Parties
Join the Hippodrome State Theatre to watch the presi-dential debates leading up to the 2016 election party Nov. 
8. The Hippodrome basement 
will be open to the public for this can’t-miss series. All watch parties are free to at-
tend. The first watch party, 
for the vice presidential de-bate is today. The watch par-ty for the second presidential debate is Sunday, the watch party for the third presiden-
tial debate is Oct. 19 and the 
election night watch party is Nov. 8. The bar will open 30 minutes before the watch par-ties begin. Americana-themed 
Hippodrome specials will be 
served. Grab your friends and a cocktail to enjoy this politi-cally charged event (that’s all 
in good fun).
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets Tuesdays at 5:45 p.m. 
in UF’s Entomology Building, 
located at 1881 Natural Area Drive, Room 1031. For details, go to talkinggators.toastmas-
tersclubs.org or the Talking 
Gators Facebook page. “The mission of Toastmasters is 
to provide a supportive and 
positive learning experience in which members are em-powered to develop commu-nication and leadership skills, 
resulting in greater self-confi-
dence and personal growth.”
UF Symphony Orchestra 
Concert Thursday in memo-ry of Arthur JenningsThe UF Symphony Orchestra, conducted by School of Music professor Raymond Chobaz, 
presents a concert in mem-
ory of Arthur Jennings on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the University Auditorium. The 
UF Symphony Orchestra, ac-
companied by Kevin Sharpe on the piano, will perform songs by Bach, Beethoven and Bruckner. The concert is free and open to the public. For 
more information, please visit 
arts.ufl.edu/orchestra.
Free English Classes and 
Citizenship Classes
The Latina Women’s League 
is offering free English class-es Tuesdays until Nov. 8 from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at 
the Alachua County Library 
Millhopper Branch. Anyone looking to improve his or her conversational English can attend. The league is also of-
fering free citizenship classes 
every Thursday until Oct. 20, from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., at the library, during which at-
tendees can learn about the 
process of citizenship. For more information, visit latina-womensleague.org.
Mid-Autumn Festival present-
ed by CASAUF’s Chinese American Student Association brings 
you its annual Mid-Autumn 
Festival show Sunday in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Mid-Autumn, similar to Thanksgiving in the U.S., is a 
harvest festival that seeks to 
celebrate family and food un-der the brightest full moon of the year. Immerse yourself in a 
night of culture through food, 
cultural activities, stories and performances. It is a complete-ly free event — no entry fee of any kind, with free food and 
raffles. Doors open at 6 p.m., 
and the show starts promptly at 6:30 p.m.
STRIVE at GatorWell’s 
Sexual Consent Health 
Communication Campaign
Are you and your friends clear about sexual consent? Relying on nonverbal communication 
or cultural scripts can result 
in sexual assault. GatorWell's Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal Violence Education has cre-ated a Sexual Consent Health 
Communication Campaign to 
help reduce the incidence of sexual assault through knowl-edge, belief and behavior 
change. Check it out at gator-
well.ufsa.ufl.edu or contact Rita Lawrence at rital@ufsa.ufl.edu for more information and to request materials.A Day in Solidarity with African 
People
A Day in Solidarity with African 
People will address the role of 
white people in ending the ram-pant police violence targeting black people in the U.S. Part of 
a nationwide campaign spon-
sored by the Uhuru Solidarity 
Movement, the event will build national support for the black-led Uhuru Movement’s quest 
for justice for the murder of 
three African teenage women by Florida sheriff’s deputies this year. Chairman Omali Yeshitela of the African People’s Socialist Party, the leader and founder of the Uhuru Movement, will de-liver the keynote address. The event will feature light refresh-ments and a Q & A session. The Day in Solidarity with African People will take place Oct. 19 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Alachua County Library Distract Headquarters Branch, Meeting Room A, at 401 E. University Ave. To RSVP or for questions, call 352-234-6770 or email gainesvilleusm@gmail.com 
Micanopy Fall Harvest Festival
The Micanopy Fall Harvest 
Festival will take place on Oct. 
29 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Oct. 30 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. There will be food, entertain-ment and more than 200 arts 
and crafts vendors.  On Oct. 
29, there will be an auction of donated items from vendors from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. For 
more information, email  mi-
cafest@micanopyfallfestival.org  or call 352-466-7026
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to msmith@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. 
Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may 
not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
HIGH  83° LOW  72°
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 31
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Christian Mayorga,
  Eva Sailly, Nolan Shepherd, Jessie Stein 
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn, Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
A healthy Hawaiian-inspired 
restaurant already popular with 
students is opening a location in Gainesville.
Big Island Bowls, a stationary 
food truck from St. Augustine, will open next week at 5408 Northwest 
Ave., said co-owner Kelly Hazouri.The restaurant — set to open by 
Oct. 12 — will primarily offer acai bowls, which are layered dishes with 
acai berries, homemade granola, 
honey and locally sourced fruits, she said, adding that fruit smoothies and ahi tuna poke bowls will also be on the menu.
Hazouri and co-owner Brendan 
Schneck came up with the idea to open the restaurant while working in Hawaii at Paciﬁ  c Quest, a working-therapy farm for at-risk youth, she said. After seeing how much locally 
grown produce positively affected 
their students, the St. Augustine na-tives knew they had to bring a little bit of the island lifestyle back to Flor-ida, Hazouri said.
“Health and happiness deﬁ  nitely 
go hand in hand,” she said. “Practic-ing good self care, eating good food, manifesting a healthy life for your-self is so important. It’s hard to have 
a positive outlook on life when your 
body feels terrible.”
At the St. Augustine location, 
Hazouri said she started noticing that groups of UF students would often order 10 or more to-go bowls at a time, bringing them back to Gainesville in ice-ﬁ  lled coolers for a week’s worth of lunches. Seeing that 
kind of demand from students solidi-
ﬁ  ed the owners’ decision to expand to Gainesville.
“We’re excited to be in Gator country,” she said.
Meghan Abernathy, a Santa Fe 
College English senior, said she and her boyfriend visit new restaurants every week for date nights. The 22-year-old said she doesn’t know of any other Hawaiian restaurants, which tend to offer mixtures of sa-vory, fruity dishes.
With how the town is expanding, 
Gainesville needs more healthy op-
tions, she said.
“That would be a really unique 
date night out, instead of wings and 
pizza,” Abernathy said.
 Hawaiian-inspired restaurant to open in GNV next week 
NEW RESTAURANTS IN GAINESVILLEBy Morgan Rynor
Alligator Contributing Writer
By next week, students will 
have a new healthy breakfast op-
tion near campus. 
Fresh Corner, located at 16 NW 
18th St. — where Cheese Daddy once operated — will offer an all-day breakfast menu from about 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m., with the possibility 
of late-night hours, said co-owner Egan Herda, a Santa Fe College so-ciology junior.
The menu will include options 
like chicken and wafﬂ  es, mini ba-gels with smoked salmon and avo-cado toast, Herda said, adding that there will be gluten-free and vegan 
options available.
Buoyed by the national healthy-
foods trend, the restaurant will 
hopefully ﬁ  nd a consumer base with students looking for quick, 
healthy options before class, Her-
da said.
“It will be a good addition to the Midtown area,” the 26-year-old said.
Herda said he hopes to open 
the restaurant before Saturday’s football game, but that it will deﬁ  -nitely be open by sometime next week.
Herda, whose family owns a 
farm in Micanopy and a catering business, began eating healthy about three years ago following 
an open-heart surgery. Herda also 
owns a meal plan delivery service called The Real Meal. He said peo-ple often complained they didn’t have quick and healthy places to 
go for breakfast.
“I’m expecting a good reac-
tion,” he said.
Blair DeCrispino, a UF account-
ing senior, said the restaurant’s 
nutritious options will be a perfect addition to her morning routine.
“I go to the gym very early in 
the morning, and I am always 
looking for a healthy breakfast to 
eat after,” the 21-year-old said.  All-day breakfast to 
open near campus
Fresh Corner
16 NW 18th St.
T o open by next week
The Social at Midtown
1728 W. University Ave. 
Opened Monday
Costa Vida Fresh Mexican Grill
3581 SW Archer Road
Opened Sept. 12
Felipe’s Mexican T aqueria
1209 W. University Ave.
Opened Sept. 5
It will serve acai bowls and smoothies4   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
Students are encouraged to purchase rent-
ers insurance, and UF is helping affected stu-
dents by providing insurance claim forms, she said.
Austin Gordon, a third-floor resident of 
Hume Hall, said maintenance has been non-stop since the flooding. 
“The water started on the second floor and 
trickled down to the first and ground floor,” the 18-year-old UF biology freshman said. 
He said he was not affected as much as 
his peers, one of whom lost an entire class’ worth of notes.
“He was pissed,” Gordon said. “The notes 
are ruined and illegible.” He said on the night of the flooding, stu-
dents were kept up late after being evacuated. Because of this, the Dean of Students Office got involved and offered the residents a note to miss class the following day.
Fourth-floor resident Brandon Ptak, 19, 
said adjusting to the constant presence of maintenance workers hasn’t been hard. 
Since the incident, some of the mainte-nance and service crew members have been offering to take students’ clothes home to wash, he said. 
“It’s nice to see that the building is band-
ing together,” the UF biochemistry sopho-more said.
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
FLOODING,  from pg. 1Maintenance has fixed the broken sprinkler that caused the floodingSHE SPOKE ABOUT 
GROWING UP WITHOUT 
HER PARENTS.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
About 500 students waited on 
the third floor of the Reitz Union to 
see Diane Guerrero from “Orange 
is the New Black” and “Jane the 
Virgin.”
The UF Hispanic Student As-
sociation hosted Guerrero at the 
Rion Ballroom on Monday night 
to speak about “In the Country We Love: My Family Divided,” a book she wrote about how she came home from school one day when 
she was 14 to find out her parents 
had been deported.
In front of the crowd, she 
shared her struggles of growing up 
knowing her family was undocu-
mented and how she was forced to learn to live without her family. 
“Nothing can really prepare you for a moment like that,” she said. 
Mike Foley, a UF journalism 
professor, asked the actress about 
her battle with alcoholism, self-
harm and suicidal thoughts after her parents left.
“I was so depressed, and I 
didn’t know how to release those 
feelings,” she said. “Maybe this 
giant glass of vodka is going to help.”
The crowd was silent as Guer-
rero spoke about her mental health 
struggles stemming from her sepa-
ration from her family at such a young age.
When she first wrote about her 
early life, Guerrero didn’t expect anyone to read or care about it. She said people are surprised by her story — a situation that hap-pens to others across the country 
each day.
She said her family realized 
how important it was for her to 
share intimate details about her life 
after she was invited to the White 
House by President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama.
Guerrero said she encourages 
young people — specifically young 
Hispanics — to register to vote and 
to vote in order to see changes in immigration policies. 
She referred to Donald Trump 
as “The D” and said the only thing resulting from his nomination was people uniting for the cause of im-migration.
“I won’t stop till I see some 
change,” Guerrero said. “If noth-
ing else, to fix the system — to 
come to some sort of solution.”
Guerrero said her story started 
a dialogue about deportation, a 
subject most people shy away 
from talking about.
“I don’t want to be ashamed of 
myself anymore,” she said. “I lived a long time with that.”
Gabriella Larios, 21, came two 
hours early with her friends to be the first in line. 
Larios said she has close friends 
who are undocumented, so seeing Guerrero speak up about the issue was meaningful. 
“I think it’s something that 
people don’t like to talk about it 
because it’s so taboo,” the UF 
women’s studies senior said. “She puts a human face to it.”
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgDiane Guerrero brings dialogue of deportation to UF students
THE PAGE HAS RAISED 
MORE THAN $5,000.
By Molly Donovan 
Alligator Staff Writer
After word spread that Burrito Bros. Taco Co. was 
struggling to stay afloat in the midst of large-scale 
construction next door, persistent customers took matters into their own hands.
On Saturday, after the local restaurant announced 
its revenues had dipped 23 percent since last year, donors have raised more than $5,000 through a  
GoFundMe page created Saturday.
The 1402 W. University Ave. restaurant has been 
in Gainesville for the past 40 years, but with the con-struction of The Standard at Gainesville apartment complex next door, Burrito Bros. owner Randy Ak-erson said the removal of customer parking spots on Northwest 14th Street and the noise and dust from 
construction has turned away prospective customers.
But despite the “outpouring of affection” for the 
restaurant, Akerson said he still hopes to be compen-
sated for his revenue loss by the city or by Landmark Properties, the company that owns The Standard at Gainesville.
“Five-thousand dollars in a GoFundMe will cer-
tainly help us for now, and we are so grateful, but it just keeps the wolf from the door for a time,” he said.
On Sept. 27, Akerson took to Facebook to inform 
fans of the restaurant about its struggle with The Standard’s construction. The post reached 90,000 people, he said, and led to a couple of busy lunch rushes and a response from Gainesville Mayor Lau-ren Poe.
Akerson received response from local govern-ment officials via Facebook, but he said they have yet to reach out to him personally.
“People from our city government have been here 
to eat lunch and talk to my customers, but have nev-er asked to speak to me,” he said. “The only reason I knew they were here is photos they posted on my back patio.”
On Saturday, Akerson’s wife, Janet, and one of 
their friends created the GoFundMe page for the res-taurant as a way to show support. As of press time, the website has brought in 118 donations and has raised $5,537.
Grace Wenham, a UF alumna who helped create 
the page, said although she lives in Wisconsin, she felt compelled to help the restaurant, which has be-come a Gainesville mainstay.
“I’m overwhelmed, but I kind of did think that 
people would come together for this,” Wenham said. “As Gator fans, the Gainesville community is so tight and strong. I know we rally very well, and I knew there would be support. It’s blown my expectations out of the water, though.”
Noy Epstein, a UF electrical engineering sopho-
more, said that she has eaten at Burrito Bros. and learned of the apartment’s struggle through its Face-book post.
She said GoFundMe is a powerful tool people can 
use to raise money for causes they care about. The amount of money raised in such a short amount of time just shows how strongly people feel about the restaurant.
“I know a lot of people love that place, and to 
raise all that money in three days — power to the people,” she said.
@mollyidonovan
mdonovan@alligator.orgGoFundMe page supports Burrito Bros.
THE COMPLAINANTS 
WEREN’T NOTIFIED OF 
MONDAY’S MEETING.
By Katelyn Newberg 
After a brief meeting Monday, the 
Student Government election commis-sion will meet again today to hear four election complaints. 
The complaints were dismissed 
Monday because the complainants, Zachariah Chou and Edward Zam-brano, were not at the meeting, during which attendance is required by the UF constitution, said Neal Cordero, the commission’s chairman. Cordero said he emailed both students Friday to notify them of the meeting and their required attendance. 
But both Chou and Zambrano said 
they never received an email. 
Cordero said he didn’t realize he 
didn’t notify the students of the meet-ing, so the commission will meet again to give Chou and Zambrano a chance to speak. 
“I was under the impression that I 
notified them,” he said. “We want to 
ensure their voices are heard.” 
Today’s meeting will take place as 
if Monday’s never happened, Cordero said.
Chou, who was the only indepen-
dent candidate elected to UF’s Student 
Senate on Wednesday, said he sub-mitted one complaint about a political ad not having the required “Reg.Pol.Ad” writing in the ad. Because no complaints were placed against Chou or the other independent candidates, 
Chou said he is withdrawing his com-
plaint and will not attend today’s meeting. 
Zambrano submitted three com-
plaints after he volunteered for Jeremy O’Brien Murillo’s independent cam-paign for Beaty Towers. O’Brien Mu-rillo lost Wednesday by six votes. The complaints included another “Reg.
Pol.Ad” missing from an opponent’s 
ad, Impact Party representatives cam-paigning at the Beaty Towers bus stop and Impact representatives walking students to polling locations. 
“I will be there (today),” Zambrano 
said. “It was a mistake, but I’m glad they’re going to rehear.” 
Today’s meeting will be at 4 p.m. 
at the Levin College of Law in Room 355A. 
Editor’s note: Zachariah Chou for-
merly worked as a paid photographer 
for the Alligator.SG election commission 
to rehear complaintsGrace King / Alligator Staff
Diane Guerrero, an actress, author and activist, spoke to UF 
students on Monday evening at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom during UF’s Hispanic Heritage Month.
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Melissa Gomez 
Alligator Staff Writer
After 22 days, Geoff Lee did 
his last set of pushups at UF’s 
Counseling and Wellness Cen-
ter on Monday. 
Lee, a senior staff psy-
chologist at the CWC, began 
the challenge Sept. 12 after 
a colleague encouraged him 
to partake in the 22 Pushup Challenge campaign to edu-cate others about the average number of military veterans who commit suicide each day.
Other CWC staff members 
joined Lee and tried their hands at the challenge. The group recorded a video cel-ebrating the last day of Lee’s 
challenge. 
Lee said the 22 days of 
doing pushups gave him a 
chance to teach staff and stu-
dents about suicide preven-
tion awareness.
“I was sore; it was a chal-lenge,” he said. “I can’t tell you the last time I did more 
than 20 pushups. I struggled 
with it, but I was committed to it.” 
Lee recorded videos in his 
office, where he would intro-
duce a statistic, fact or myth 
about suicide before doing a set of pushups. 
For 22 days, Lee said he 
was able to honor his brother and father, who served in the military, and his family mem-bers who were affected by suicide. He said he hoped that 
by filming the videos in the of-
fice he worked in most of the day, he would give students a chance to see him as more than just a counselor. 
“I wanted people to see me 
doing my thing in the midst of the work that I do — as a real person,” he said. 
Meggen Sixbey, the associ-
ate director of the CWC, said she knew Lee would complete the challenge. 
“He totally took it on and 
recorded himself every day,” she said. “It was just neat to see him take it on.” 
Sixbey said she believes 
the videos will help remind students about the resources available at the center and the center’s effort to tell others 
about suicide prevention.
@MelissaGomez004 
mgomez@alligator.org 
CWC counselor honors family and military with pushups
Lee
THE BUSINESSES HAVE 
A TWO-SEMESTER CON -
TRACT AT THE SPACE.
 By Alexandria Ng
Alligator Contributing Writer
The room that used to be the 
Reitz Union printing lab now 
has three walls covered in board 
games. 
Student entrepreneurs Andrew 
Birkett and Chuck Call of Atheris Games and Pablo Casilimas of Raw Moment Film Studios were award-
ed a two-semester contract for the 
space across from Wells Fargo on the ground floor of the Reitz after placing at the Big Idea Gator Busi-
ness Plan Competition in Spring. 
Casilimas, the CEO and creative 
director of Raw Moment Film Stu-dios, said the Reitz location gives 
him a place to expand his business. 
“Having this space at the Reitz 
is like a dream,” the UF advertising junior said. “It’s so surreal. I never thought I’d have my own company 
running in the Reitz Union. We feel 
pretty fortunate because we’re just students.” 
After placing in the top five at 
the competition with his business partner, UF advertising senior Ste-phen Kim, who is also the compa-ny’s business developer and con-tent creator, the two turned their 
passion for film and the creative 
arts into a business plan for a film studio that offers competitive rates.
Besides producing video con-
tent for university student organi-zations, local businesses and non-
profit organizations, the company 
specializes in wedding photogra-phy, professional headshots and 
website design, he said. 
After the company’s contract is 
over, Casilimas said the business is hoping to expand. 
“We want to turn this into a full-
blown agency and be able to travel for certain gigs and bigger projects 
for bigger companies,” he said. 
With the help of the Warrington 
College of Business Gator Hatch-ery, an office that provides a work-space, office support, mentors and resources for startup companies to 
succeed, the founders of Atheris 
Games were able to turn their ideas into a business. 
Call, a UF graduate student in 
entrepreneurship, said the space gives the startup business a place 
to test new games among students. 
“Our store fills a need for stu-
dents who want to play tabletop games on campus without having 
to go to inconveniently located stores elsewhere,” said Call, the 
company’s chief financial officer. 
With Birkett, a UF marketing ju-
nior, he created “Cul-De-Sac Con-quest,” a board game about annoy-ing your neighbor.
Currently, the store sells board 
games, card games and collectible figurines, but they hope to expand 
to sell comic books. Once their two-semester contract at the Reitz 
is up, they want to open an off-campus location. 
“We’ve built great relationships 
with the people who’ve come in 
so far, and we just want to keep 
making better games, because the 
tabletop gaming market is so di-verse,” Call said.
Two student-run businesses thrive at Reitz Union location
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
From left: Pablo Casilimas, the CEO and creative director of Raw Moment Film Studios; Stephen Kim, 
the content creator and business developer for Raw Moment Film Studios; and Andrew Birkett, a co-founder of Atheris Games, pose for a photo at the Reitz Union on Monday afternoon.
By Amanda Nardi
Alligator Contributing Writer
Gainesville residents looking 
to buy bus passes won’t have to 
use cash anymore. 
Regional Transit System, 
Gainesville’s bus system, started accepting credit cards Monday at the Rosa Parks Downtown Sta-tion, located at 700 SE Third St. MasterCard and Visa credit cards 
and debit cards can be used, Chip 
Skinner, the department market-ing and communications supervi-sor for RTS, wrote in an email.
MasterCard and Visa are the 
only cards being accepted at the time, he said, because other cred-it card companies charge higher percentages per transaction. 
Skinner said RTS has wanted 
to offer credit card payment for a few years. 
“It is a simple swipe-and-sign transaction like any other retail business,” Skinner said.
Credit cards will also be ac-
cepted at the Butler Plaza Trans-fer Station once it opens and staff members are hired, he said. Skin-ner said he expects that to happen 
in the coming months.
James Williams, 20, buys 
monthly RTS bus passes and said he is glad he can now use his Visa 
debit card if needed. 
“If I was at the station and for-
got cash and needed a bus, being able to pay with my card would be cool,” Williams said. “That way I wouldn’t be stranded there.”
RTS buses now accepting credit, debit card paymentsBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
A naked Gainesville man was 
arrested Monday morning after at-
tempting to block traffic on South Main Street, police said.
At about 3 a.m. Monday, a mo-
torist reported Kurt W. Holley, 46, standing in the 200 block of South Main Street with his genitals ex-
posed, attempting to slow down 
traffic, according to a police report.
Officers responded and found 
Holley, who refused to give his name or any form of identification after several requests, according to the report.Holley told officers he would 
not give his name and that it was 
their job to figure it out, according 
to the report.
After refusing officers’ com-
mands multiple times, Holley was forced to the ground, according to the report.
In February 2015, Holley was charged with criminal mischief for kicking and damaging a fence, 
according to Alachua County 
Court records. He refused to  
identify himself in that case as well.
Police arrested him on charges 
of breach of the peace and resisting an officer without violence, accord-ing to the report.
Authorities took him to the 
Alachua County Jail where he re-mains, as of press time, in lieu of a $2,000 bond.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgNaked man arrested for trying to block Main Street traffic
“It is a simple swipe and sign 
transaction like any other retail 
business.”
Chip Skinner
RTS supervisorThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Political smugness on both ends of the spectrum
The political climate we ﬁ  nd ourselves 
in today is radically binary; for this, we must give thanks to the luminary inﬂ  u-ence of this presidential election. There 
seems to be much class, racial and 
ideological resentment, all of which are ris-
ing to the surface of the American conscience. Sadly, all it took for such contempt to become public and commonplace was an election. The vitriol with which both sides of the aisle — both sides — hate the other candidate, party and platform simply boggles my mind. 
And yet, it doesn’t surprise me at all. What we are 
witnessing in our public square, I believe, is the human 
need for purpose being wrongly placed on our presiden-
tial candidates. In a secular society, in which faith in a god is not common, it makes sense that citizens will try to ﬁ  ll that empty pedestal with politics. In other words, I think it a fundamental human truth that we all are living for something, hoping and trusting that whatever the object is we are living for will satisfy our hearts, bridging that gap between what we long to be and what 
we really are. And currently this desire is ﬁ  nding its 
home in Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
The late David Foster Wallace captured my point in 
brilliant surgical prose in his famous Kenyon College 
commencement address. “There is no such thing as not worshipping,” he said.  “Everybody worships. The only choice we get is what to worship. And an outstanding reason for choosing some sort of God or spiritual-type thing to worship … is that pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive. If you worship money 
and things, if they are where you tap real meaning in 
life, then you will never have enough. Never feel you have enough. It’s the truth. Worship your own body and beauty and sexual allure and you will always feel ugly, and when time and age start showing, you will die a million deaths before they ﬁ  nally plant you.” It is a sobering quote — one that certainly 
penetrates my heart. It reminds me of my mo-tivations in life, why I do certain things and care so deeply about, or fear so profoundly, 
certain scenarios or possibilities in my life. 
I loathe thinking about how deep my need 
for approval and recognition has rooted itself 
into my everyday thoughts and actions. But as Wallace reminds us, we all are living for something. And that is what I see in our po-litical discourse — people who are not looking 
to Trump or Clinton for just a political revolution but for something much more. We are putting both candi-dates on a divine pedestal, above any and all reproach 
or criticism from the other side. We do not want to hear 
any dissenters speak their minds, because we fear that maybe their words are too closely related to the truth. We do not want these candidates to be president; we need them to be. If they are proven wrong, if they lose credibility or candor, then we, sadly, lose a sense of who we are as a consequence.
I see both political parties so entrenched in them-
selves, so absorbed in their own infallibility of platform 
and policy, that they cannot even fathom the notion 
that maybe the other side, the enemy, is right about 
some things. During this election, we have all witnessed people desperately clinging, with the force of a fright-ened child, to their political leanings, regardless of rea-son or evidence. It seems as if we have built our very identities on which party is better. 
But the way out of such nonsensical behavior is not 
simply empathy or a humanistic understanding. No, we 
need a much deeper solution, one that cuts near to the 
heart. Maybe we are seeing in politics what Wallace saw in everyday life: that what we have chosen to live for, like everything except religion, is eating us alive.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and philosophy sopho-
more. His column appears on Tuesdays.You don’t have 
to cover up your 
camera
Fads come and go. In 2016, some of the best moments 
can be had sitting on the Plaza of the Americas, watch-ing people as they stroll all the way from Anderson Hall to Turlington Plaza, selﬁ  e stick in hand, to document this fas-cinating migration. Fitbits must always be on, because how 
else would people keep track of how many calories they burned playing “Pokemon Go”? Why not let everyone know what you just did by sending them a Snapchat with that puppy-dog face?
Yes, out of all the absurd yet lovable fads that came about in  
2016, perhaps the most confusing one is covering up the cameras on computers with pieces of paper, a Post-it Note or, inexpli-cably, a piece of Play-Doh. “Oh, that’ll do the trick!” everyone must exclaim as they tweet from their smartphone that’s fully equipped with a forward-facing camera. “We ended intrusive 
government surveillance, hooray!”
Obviously, they didn’t. This trend was popularized when 
Mark Zuckerberg posted a photo with his computer (and it’s cov-
ered camera) in the background, people immediately concluded that they, too, should cover their cameras. If it’s good enough for Facebook juggernaut Zuckerberg, it’s good enough for them.
There’s a weird piece of irony here. Clearly, this isn’t nearly 
sufﬁ  cient in terms of counteracting years worth of constitution-ally questionable surveillance. But people still feel like they’re 
doing something to “stick it to the man.” Our question to those of 
you who engage in this practice is simple: Does it matter?
It would be easy to comment on the legal gray area that en-
compasses citizen surveillance programs. But in reality, are there any of us who would change our behavior if we realized our behavior was being monitored? How much has your behavior changed since you did, in fact, cover your computer’s camera? Moreover, for those of you who believe in God, He’s always watching. I’m sure you have nothing to hide, but good luck ﬁ  nd-
ing a Post-It Note so big that it blocks the Big Guy Upstairs’ view.
Here at the Alligator, we’re more than comfortable with this 
ﬂ  y on the wall. Many of us here in Gainesville have pets. When 
those of you who, after a long day of studying, want to get inti-mate with your signiﬁ  cant other, do you lock your dog or cat out of the room? Do you throw a blanket over the birdcage? Do you cloud the waters of your aquariums? Most of you probably don’t, because you don’t recognize the presence of these creatures as intrusive enough to warrant self-censorship.
We posit that this relationship ought to be mimicked across 
mediums. If some low-level NSA employee has to sit and look at our opinions editor’s asymmetrical face all day as he types out editorials, that’s the employee’s problem. If some member of a group style, 60+ only, BDSM club accidentally left her computer open during a Hieronymus Bosch-themed orgy, and that same NSA employee has to watch every bit to make sure it wasn’t re-ally some al-Qaida Q & A, there really is no harm in this. 
If you brought this newspaper to Lake Alice and asked the al-
ligators what they thought about this editorial, it’d be surprising if they had anything considerable to say in return. When some small, insigniﬁ  cant piece of data gets a red ﬂ  ag in thousands of digital codes and is sent forward for investigation to some NSA intern, we suspect that a similar relationship is found. He scratch-es his head and thinks of what to make of a 13-year-old kid blow-ing more air out of his nose than usual because he saw a funny meme. Is this 13-year-old a threat to national security? Moreover, are our enemies so stupid that they’ll let their plans be compro-
mised by a misplaced MacBook?
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Animal rights advocacy can be for ev-
eryone.
Social media and news outlets 
detail the issues around us, but they usually overlook this important one: 
We are constantly fighting for human equal-ity, but what about the animals we call our “best friends”? I consider myself an animal rights advocate. Of course there is more I could do, but there will always be more.
People sometimes ask me how they can 
become an animal rights advocate. Many people think of animal advocacy as what they see from some of the major animal rights organizations standing outside with a sign. While protesting is one form of help people can give, it is not the only route.
Animal advocacy can come in all forms. 
Some ways are more time-consuming and larger than others, but that does not mean the smaller forms of aid are not helpful. The following five items are simple ways anyone can help out animals:
Follow an organization like 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or the American Soci-ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. You do not necessar-
ily have to join them — unless you want to — but even following their cam-paigns and the work they are currently doing is a great way to stay updated on the animal rights community.   
Write, post and share.  Social media is 
one of our generation’s biggest advantages for any type of campaigning. You may just be one person, but when each post you put out is going to more than 200 people, it can make a difference.  
Convince your friends. I 
have had so many conversa-tions with my friends about ani-mal rights and probably didn’t convince half of the people I spoke to. However, all that mat-ters is that you convince one person, because that one person will tell others.
Eat less meat. I am not trying to tell you 
burger-lovers to become vegans. I know that is not realistic. I am asking you to try to go one day without meat each week. As a vegetarian, I can tell you that a day without meat is not going to kill you. There are much cleaner sources of protein out there. You may not think one day per week will make a difference, but it does. Meatless Monday is a huge campaign that is trying to get people to go without meat for a day. This campaign has already reduced the amount of meat con-sumed in some areas.
Get involved on a local level. There are 
many organizations in Gainesville trying to make a difference for animals. UF has clubs like Vegan Eating for Gators and the Student Animal Alliance. Volunteering is also a great way to meet other people with similar inter-ests — and meet cute animals.  
I challenge you to try these five ways to 
help. They are all easy and fun — especially if you encourage your friends to do them with you. It all makes a difference, and you can help make that difference happen.
Hannah Marjon is a public relations 
sophomore.
Five simple ways to be an animal rights advocate and make a differenceGuest Column
If you are like most students heading back 
to school this Fall, you have a lot going 
on. For many people, that includes study-ing for classes, extracurricular activities, 
hanging out with friends and Fall football 
games. But as Fall starts to wind down, you will start looking forward to visiting friends 
and family back home for the holidays. The problem with traveling is that it can be quite 
expensive. But, there are ways to save on 
your travel expenses, and your credit card 
(or future credit card) is a great place to start. 
Many students have the assumption that 
a credit card is something that will get them 
into financial trouble and cause them to 
spend more money than they have. But, if 
you use a credit card responsibly, especially 
a travel rewards credit card, then you could 
actually save money by using it to spend on your Fall trips home. You have to remember 
one important thing, though: The only way to 
come out ahead when using a rewards credit 
card to save on travel is to always pay your 
bill on time and in full to avoid interest. If 
you can do that, then you literally get reward-
ed for spending money that you were going 
to spend anyway on your trip home. 
Travel rewards credit cards earn rewards 
for every dollar that you spend, which can be used to offset any travel costs you 
have. Some of these cards reward you with 
“points,” while others offer you “miles.” 
They both can be viewed the same, because 
they are usually worth equal value. The basis 
for what they are worth is usually a return of 
1 percent of the money that you spend on a 
travel rewards credit card. So for every $100 
you spend, you will earn $1 in rewards. It 
doesn’t sound like much, but some travel rewards credit cards offer bonus 
rewards when you spend at cer-
tain places — sometimes double or even triple rewards. On top of that, 
various travel rewards cards offer 
you a discount when you trade 
your “rewards” in for travel pur-
chases. Lastly, there are opportuni-ties to earn reward bonuses when 
you open your account, and these 
bonuses can be worth hundreds of 
dollars in travel credit. So now that you know 
the basics of how to get free or discounted 
travel from a travel rewards credit card, let's 
look at some examples. 
Venture from Capital One
The Capital One Venture Card is a great 
travel rewards card that makes things simple 
and easy. You earn double miles (2 percent 
back in rewards) for every dollar you spend. 
You also have the opportunity to earn 40,000 
bonus miles ($400 in travel credit) when 
you spend $3,000 in the first three months 
of opening your account. You can use your 
miles anytime on any airline with no black-
out dates. All you do is purchase your trip 
through any travel outlet you want and then use your miles to cover the cost as a credit on 
your statement. On top of that, you won’t pay 
any foreign transaction fees when you use 
your card to spend overseas. The only down-
side is that there is an annual fee of $59, but 
it is waived for the first year of your account. 
There is a step down from the Venture 
Card, and that is the Capital One VentureOne 
Card. It earns unlimited 1.25 miles per dollar 
spent, and you can earn 20,000 bonus miles 
($200 in travel credit) after you spend $1,000 in your first three months. All of 
this comes with no annual fee. 
Both of these cards are Visa 
Signature Cards, which means you will also enjoy certain travel 
upgrades and savings, a 24-hour 
concierge service, extended war-
ranties on items you purchase, travel insurance and special access 
to certain events. 
American Express Premier Rewards 
Gold Card
The American Express Premier Rewards 
Gold Card is not just reserved for elite trav-elers. Anyone with a great credit score can 
take advantage of the travel savings it has to 
offer. To start out, you will earn triple points 
for every purchase you make directly from airlines, double points on gas, on groceries 
and at restaurants, and baseline points on 
everything else. You can also earn 25,000 bo-
nus points ($250 in travel credit) when you 
spend $2,000 within the first three months of 
opening your account. And to top it all off, 
each year you will get a $100 AmEx airline 
credit that you can use toward any incidental 
charges you may incur (baggage fees, change flight fees, in-flight meals and drinks, etc.). 
You can use your points to cover any travel 
purchases you make, which means no black-
out dates. You get access to the American 
Express Hotel Collection which provides up-
grades and resort credits along with no for-
eign transaction fees. You can even transfer 
your points over to partnered airline frequent 
flyer mile programs at a 1:1 ratio. The annual 
fee is $195, and it is waived for the first year. 
You can get some great benefits along with this card such as travel insurance, extended 
warranties and presale ticket access to cer-
tain events. 
Chase Sapphire Preferred The Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card. 
You will earn double points on all travel and restaurant purchases, and the best part is that you can earn 50,000 bonus points (up to $625 
in travel credit) when you spend $4,000 in 
the first three months after opening your ac-
count. When you book your travel through 
the Chase Ultimate Rewards Program you re-
ceive a discount, which stretches your points 
further (making 50,000 points worth $625). 
As with the AmEx Premier Rewards Gold 
Card, you can transfer points to partnered 
airline and hotel loyalty programs at a 1:1 ra-
tio and take advantage of no foreign transac-tion fees when traveling abroad. The annual 
fee is $95 and is waived for the first year. 
You also get included benefits such as travel 
insurance, extended warranties and more.
A great place to see if any of these offers 
is being targeted toward you and your credit 
profile is the free-to-use CardMatch Tool. It 
has no impact on your credit score, and it 
can show you great offers available, like the ones above.  
Now that you know some of the great 
travel rewards credit cards available, you 
can get the most out of your money on your 
next trip. Especially after a hard semester at 
school, it would be great to see friends and 
family and save some money in the process. 
This article was written by Matthew Coan, 
owner of the Gainesville based personal 
finance website casavvy.com. The best credit cards to help you save money when you travel this Fall Guest column
Matthew Coan
Speaking OutHannah Marjon
Speaking Out
Hey, Gators!
As this Fall semester kicks off to 
a busy start, I want to share with 
you the exciting news about the first-ever edition of the Student 
Government Health Affairs Newsletter. First and foremost, I will be serving as your health affairs secretary in the executive branch of SG this academic year and am striving to increase awareness of our great UF health-related resources while simultaneously in-creasing their usage and efficiency.  SG has worked and will continue to work closely with GatorWell, the Counseling and Wellness Center, the Disability Resource Center, U Matter, We Care and the Student Health Care Center and strive to make these great health-related pro-grams on our campus the best for The Gator Nation.
Today, I am excited to release the Health Affairs Newsletter to UF. In this newsletter, we will highlight health resources at UF, impor-tant health-related student or-ganizations and mission trips, specific cabinet and RecSports events and programs and impor-tant health issues affecting our university as well as local and national communities. I, along 
with the rest of SG, believe awareness and better health resources on campus will con-currently improve the mental and physical health of our Student Body, and I hope you take advantage of this great resource. It will be released the first Monday of every month.
You can check out the newsletter on our 
SG Facebook page or through the following URL: eepurl.com/chqRMv.
Jonah Stein is a UF biochemistry senior 
currently serving as Student Government's health affairs secretary.
Read the Health Affairs newletter: a message from SG health secretary Guest column
Jonah Stein
Speaking Out8   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
THE BRACELET COSTS $95 AND 
WILL BE DISTRIBUTED IN 2017.
By Matthew Gorwitz 
Alligator Contributing Writer 
A UF alumnus and his four business part-
ners want to help women stay safe when go-
ing out. 
After hearing the statistic that one in four 
college females will be sexually assaulted by the time they enter their senior year, Aaron Whittemore, 33, and his four partners at Harvard Business School designed Onee, a bracelet that women can wear to help them keep track of their friends.
The bracelet, which costs $95, connects 
to a partner via the Onee app. The Onee company will begin distributing the brace-lets in spring 2017, said Whittemore, a now-second-year Harvard Business School stu-dent who graduated from UF with a masters 
degree in electrical engineering in 2007.
“One short vibration and your friend is 
just checking to see if you’re OK,” he said. 
“Multiple pulsing vibrations, and your friend 
is in a state of distress.”
The bracelets can be synced once two 
people connect over the app, and then the 
location of each person becomes available. 
As long as users are within 30 feet of their 
phones with Bluetooth connection, they can send vibrations to their buddies’ bracelets — even from across the globe.
Andie Waldman, 20, said the bracelet 
should be on every girl’s wrist at Midtown.
“Everyone should have one of these 
when they come out,” the UF psychology ju-nior said. “Sexual assault happens way too often, and this will help save a lot of girls.” UF alumnus helps develop 
safety bracelet for going outBy Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua County Sheriff’s deputy 
whose police dog died of heat exhaustion 
in July will be removed from the K-9 unit, 
the sheriff’s office announced Monday.
The office also announced it would 
soon outfit all of its K-9 vehicles with new 
safety features — called No Dog Left Be-
hind — to prevent future injury or death, 
said Art Forgey, a sheriff’s office spokes-
man.
“That’s a direct result of this so we can 
try to prevent the tragedy again,” Forgey said.
On July 8, Deputy Tommy Wilcox left 
his 6-year-old dog, a Belgian Malinois 
named Robbie, inside a hot police car, 
where the dog eventually died, according to an offense report.
During an internal investigation fol-
lowing Robbie’s death, ACSO’s Office of Professional Standards found Wilcox violated several policies, including per-formance of duty and neglect of duty and driving, according to a statement released by the sheriff’s office.
In addition to his removal from the K-9 
unit, Wilcox will be suspended six days without pay and placed on a three-month disciplinary probation, according to the statement.
The suspension will likely begin with-
in the next 30 days based on shift sched-uling, Forgey said.
The new $33,000 safety upgrade, 
which has no set implementation date, 
will alert K-9 deputies if the back doors of 
their vehicles — where their dogs are held — do not open after a certain amount of time once the deputies’ doors close, he said.
If the back door does not open, the 
vehicle alarm will sound, and the deputy will receive text alerts, Forgey said.
@ceostroff
costroff@alligator.orgACSO to purchase $33,000 K-9 
safety upgrade after dog’s death
By Carly Breitbart
Alligator Contributing Writer 
For parents grieving the loss 
of a child, a Gainesville woman is 
offering support. 
Dee Bird lost her son Timothy 
Bird-Lopez, a former UF student, to Duchenne muscular dystrophy one month before his 25th birth-day in March 2014. 
Bird said she didn’t know 
where to turn, but two years later she is helping families in Gainesville heal.
She will hold her first free 
child-loss support group session Thursday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Alachua County Library Dis-trict Headquarters Branch on East University Avenue. 
“I was afraid to go to a support 
group,” she said. “I was afraid of losing that connection with Timo-thy.”
After studying at The Grief 
Recovery Institute and becoming a certified grief recovery special-ist, Bird said she learned she will never lose that connection. 
 “There is a way to bring that 
joy back without taking that grief away,” she said. 
Bird will hold free monthly 
sessions through December, and in the coming year she plans to expand her program to an eight- to 12-week class, she said. 
Through readings, conversa-
tions and activities, she plans to guide grieving parents out of the “deep, dark hole” she remembers being in. 
From her own experience with 
loss, she learned that when she started to love herself, she started to find hope, faith and finally, joy, the 55-year-old said. 
To parents who have suffered 
this tragedy, she said it takes time. 
“You’re gonna go, and you’re gonna find out that you’re not alone,” she said. 
Meggen Sixbey, the associate 
director of the UF Counseling and Wellness Center, said having a support network of people who are also grieving can help. 
While parents who have lost 
their children never really move on, she said, they can learn to honor their child’s memory and cope with life without them. 
“You’re not ever getting over 
the loss of your loved one,” Six-bey said. “You’re learning to live with them differently.”
After losing child, Gainesville woman to offer free support groupsAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
BUSTING MYTHS
Riddhi Patel, a 19-year-old nutritional sciences sophomore, pins balloons with handwritten myths about domestic violence on a board on Monday morning on Turlington Plaza. Passersby paid $1 each to throw darts to pop a myth. All proceeds from this fundraiser will go to Peaceful Paths, a domestic abuse network.
Monthly sessions will be held until DecemberLOCAL 
“There is a way to bring that 
joy back without taking that 
grief away.”
Dee Bird 
Grief recovery specialistTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
advertising@alligator.org352−376−4482
MASSACHUSETTS . . . 09 /02
KENTUCKY . . . . . . . . 09 /09
NORTH TEXAS . . . . . 09 /16 
LSU . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10/07
MISSOURI . . . . . . . . . 10/14
GEORGIA . . . . . . . . . . 10/28  
SOUTH CAROLINA . . . 11/10
PRESBYTERIAN . . . . 11/18
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP . . 12/02
CONTACT YOUR SALES REP!ADVERTISE IN  
THE ALLIGATOR’S 2016  
FOOTBALL EDITIONS15%AND
SAVEKICK OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUMRUN 5 OUT OF 9 DATES
KICK
 OFF
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
BEN HILL GRIFFIN STADIUM
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
UF model projects few Zika virus 
outbreaks
If Zika cases increase in the U.S., UF 
researchers predict small outbreaks. 
A team of researchers at UF is inter-
preting results made by model compu-
tations from Northeastern University. The projections are made on the Global Epidemic and Mobility Model, which 
takes into account every person in the 
population of the Americas. 
It also considers factors such as 
where people are traveling, mosquito densities and temperatures, said Ira 
Longini, a UF biostatistics professor. 
“If an infected mosquito bites a sus-
ceptible person, then it calculates the 
probability that the person will be in-
fected,” he said.   
He said the model keeps track of 
what happens to mosquito populations 
and all infected people. 
“About 80 percent of people with 
Zika infections don’t have any symp-toms, so they would never be noticed unless you took a sample from them,” he said. 
The model predicted 79 symptom-
atic cases of Zika locally transmitted in Florida up to Sept. 15, Longini said. It puts into context the problem so people can understand what the risk may be.  
“I think the model, at least in the 
U.S., reassures people that Zika is not super dangerous and is not going to get out of control in the U.S,” Longini said.
- Cecilia LemusUF IFAS, Santa Fe conducting Cedar 
Key ecology research
In order to improve conservation re-
search on Florida’s Nature Coast, UF’s 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sci-
ences is working with Santa Fe College 
at Cedar Key.
UF has been conducting research 
about environments on the Nature 
Coast, which spans from Hernando 
County to Wakulla County, for about 30 to 40 years, said Mike Allen, the director of the Nature Coast Biological Station. The station, which opened in 
Cedar Key last year, will help improve 
the quality of research and gain direct access to ecosystems and the organ-isms that live within them like ﬁ  sh and 
clams.
Allen said because the area has had 
little commercial development, the 
land is ideal for research. He said he hopes the research done by IFAS and 
Santa Fe will help protect the area. 
“We want to do research to improve 
the conservation and management of 
this region,” Allen said. “It’s one of the 
largest seagrass beds in North America; 
it’s got amazing oysteries and amazing wildlife and ﬁ  shery diversity.”
At the lab, IFAS staff will work 
alongside researchers and students from Santa Fe College. Other partners 
include state and federal agencies like 
the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commis-sion.
- Romy EllenbogenResearchers to study children’s 
sleep, eating habits
UF researchers are trying to ﬁ  nd 
whether the time children fall asleep 
inﬂ  uences their activity and diet. 
Kendra Krietsch, a UF clinical psy-
chology doctoral student, and David Janicke, a UF professor in the Depart-ment of Clinical and Health Psychol-
ogy, are leading the study, which will 
start this semester. The UF Health Shands Hospital Auxiliary Scholarship will provide $1,200 to fund the re-search.
Children between the ages of 6 and 
9 will participate, Krietsch said. Dur-ing the four-week study, the research-ers will monitor how well children eat 
and how many hours per day they are 
active.
Parents or guardians of the chil-
dren will keep track of the time their child goes to sleep and when he or 
she wakes up by logging the hours in 
an online system, Krietsch said. They will also record what foods the children eat.
Krietsch said she expects about 15 
families to participate, and all of them will receive compensation.
“I wanted to pick kids who haven’t 
started puberty yet; most 9-year-olds haven’t started puberty yet,” Krietsch 
said. “I’m hoping to learn more about 
how sleep timing inﬂ  uences how active kids are during the day.”
- Ismelda AlvarezHeavy alcohol consumption can 
negatively aﬀ  ect mental health
A group of UF researchers recently 
published the results of a study that 
suggests binge-drinking has negative 
long-term effects on mental health.
The project, which began in 2013, 
found that a history of heavy alcohol 
consumption can affect motor skills, 
learning and memory as individuals 
age, even if they no longer drink, said Adam Woods, who led the study.
“These are things that impact our 
everyday life,” Woods said. 
Woods, the assistant director of 
the UF Center for Cognitive Aging and Memory, had the conclusions of the study published online Sept. 22 in the 
journal “Alcoholism: Clinical and Ex-
perimental Research.”
Woods said a lifetime of heavy 
drinking can affect a person’s ability to remember simple routines such as tak-
ing medication regularly or performing 
easy tasks like fastening a button. Even driving skills can be affected.
“You may think that you’re young, 
and your body can handle the kind of impact that alcohol places on your body and your brain,” he said. “The re-ality is that the evidence suggests that there are consequences that may last 
well beyond the immediate effects of 
alcohol, and you may have to deal with these consequences for the remainder of your life.”
- Dylan DixonTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   10-12-16-20-2
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2Beautiful 2BR townhouse in Bellamy Forge.  Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, basket-ball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Close to Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277     10-5-16-5-2
Spacious Apartment For Rent-The Oaks-Spacious one Bedroom apartment for rent. Walk to Oaks Mall and Restaurants. On Bus-Line.Call 404-323-9338     10-7-4-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
AVAILABLE NOW - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    10-14-16-34-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-037012-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"1For Rent
furnished 2For Rent
unfurnished5 Real Estate 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!
Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-1203 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
12-7-73-13The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AAStudents in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
AWESOME OPPORTUNITY! Seeking a heart-centered person to work part time with amazing 23-year old with developmental dis-abilities. (Nov-May) Must have reliable trans-portation, a keen interest in providing fun and adventurous activities. Looking for an up-beat, reliable and mature person. $13-$15/hr. email: Knoidal@gmail.com    10-5-3-14
Designated drivers are the greatest
ACROSS
1 Home for Pogo
6 Affirmative
answer
9 Silences, as a 
TV
14 Artist’s prop15 Pie __ mode16 Wagnerian work17 “Farewell, 
chérie”
18 CBS forensic
drama
19 Antianxiety 
drug
20 “Bro, I thought
you were gonnahelp”
23 Many a GI
24 Jerry Garcia’s
band, familiarly
28 Socializing with
the queen,
maybe
31 Avril Lavigne’s
“Sk8er __”
32 Bullets and such33 Lots and lots
35 Accessories for
the highchair set
36 Decide in
advance
37 Gonzalez boy in
2000 headlines
39 Look at
lasciviously
40 Hourly charge
41 “I expected as
much”
43 “... __ saw Elba”44 Owns45 More like a
button?
46 Is really boiling48 Reggae kin49 Follow the ethical
path
55 Set to simmer, as
a burner
58 Spanish eye59 Sag60 Southern
inflection
61 Looking sickly62 Novelist Zola63 Suddenly occurs
to, with “on”
64 Computer
program suffix
65 Went out withDOWN
1 Close securely
2 Stroll in the
shallows
3 “Yeah, sure!”4 Track event5 Made fluffy, as
pillows
6 Millionaire’s boat7 “Frozen” princess8 Minnesota
college named forNorway’s patron
9 Spunk
10 Moving around11 Morning break
hour
12 Historical period13 Classic doo-wop
horn
21 Slip past22 Phone button
letters next to a 4
25 Political fugitive26 One strolling27 Medicine
measures
28 Harshly bright29 Perfectly
30 “You’re talking
too loud”
31 Puts the worm on33 __-ski
34 Sewing machine
inventor
38 Shaving mishaps42 Covered, as in a
man-to-man
defense
44 Axe47 Coyote cries48 Rosetta __50 “Stronger than
dirt!” cleanser51 “Joy of Cooking”
writer Rombauer
52 __ alone: have
no help
53 Putting target54 Adorned with
Angel Soft, say
55 Like every other
number
56 Food service
trade org.
57 Attorney’s field
By Sam Buchbinder©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/04/1610/04/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, October 4, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
12 Autos 12 Autos 13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
University of Florida in Gainesville, FL is 
seeking an Application Developer Analyst II to be responsible to the designated Physician Directors of the Perioperative Analytics Group for the Department of Anesthesiology. Will collect, abstract, analyze and report on data from a variety of electronic databases throughout the UFHealth IT infrastructure. These data products will be used for opera -
tional and research projects critical to the patient care, research and education mis-sions of the Department of Anesthesiology. This position will be responsible for selecting and applying appropriate analytical methods to answer questions and test hypotheses as specified by clinical researchers, admin -
istrators and clinicians. Expected to work on database design and complex statistical methods and algorithms. Expected projects will include the design of research and op-erational databases, machine learning and statistical analyses, and the development of reporting infrastructures. This position will provide leadership to domain experts on is-sues related to principles of biomedical infor-matics and analytical methods; prioritize and coordinate multiple tasks so as to achieve tight deadlines (as determined by commit-ments to funding agencies), and comply, in a timely manner, with administrative requests and requirements. Will interact with experts in database modeling, machine learning, event simulation, and other advanced ana-lytic processes. Expected to use R, SAS, Python, Tableau, and/or other database/ana -
lytical software platforms at an expert level of proficiency to manipulate and analyze data. Expected to use (no)SQL programming to design and develop databases to be used for data collection activities. Will work with custom software and databases in order to successfully complete analyses. Expected to use software tools for word processing, spreadsheet, presentation and organization -
al analyses (e.g. Microsoft Office products), provides reports of analyses to decision makers. Will also be responsible for develop -
ing reporting mechanisms via dashboards. Will be responsible for formulating policies and procedures for effective administration of research projects and protection of health information in accordance with University policy, and all applicable state and federal laws. 
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Statistical Computing or a closely related field and one year of experience in the healthcare environment; or a bachelor’s degree in Statistical Computing or a closely related field, and three years of experience in the healthcare environment. To apply, please send resume and cover let-ter to maryann@ufl.edu by October 7, 2016.    10-4-30-14
HELP WANTED
HARVESTING CHESTNUTS
Pay $20 per 5 gal bucket. 20814 NW CR 2054 Alachua. Call 352-213-2239    10-6-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your 
Entertainment classified today to get people 
up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestTrying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     10-19-16-20-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
15 Services 18 Personals 23 Rides 24 Pets 14 Help WantedFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Austin Appleby is bringing the heat, plus four other things learned at Monday's football press conference, pg 14.  Florida soccer player earns weekly honor
Sophomore Melanie Monteagudo was named the Southeastern 
Conference's Offensive Player of the Week, the league announced Monday. Monteagudo had a goal and an assist in UF's 3-0 win over LSU on Friday. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Austin Appleby (12) is tackled during Florida's 13-6 win over Vanderbilt on Saturday. Appleby will sit against LSU on Saturday if 
quarterback Luke Del Rio is deemed healthy. "We both think we're the one that gives our team the best chance to win, " Appleby said. 
UF HAS MADE IT TO THE 
COLLEGE CUP TWICE.
By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Meggie Dougherty Howard 
and Gabby Seiler stood in front 
of their teammates last week 
and posed two questions.
Do you want to play in the 
college cup?
Every person in the room 
raised their hand.
Do you feel we will make it to 
the college cup if we continue to 
play at this level?
No one raised their hand.Since the presentation, No. 
18 Florida (8-3, 3-2 Southeast-ern Conference) has been solely 
focused on achieving its long-
term goal of reaching the NCAA 
Tournament’s final four, and coach Becky Burleigh is deter-
mined to make sure her team 
will be there two months from 
now.
The Women’s College Cup 
takes place during the first weekend of December. The 
Gators have made it to the col-
lege cup twice in the program’s 
22-year history, with their last 
appearance coming in 2001.
Burleigh and her staff want 
to break that 14-year drought, 
and the five-time Southeastern 
Conference Coach of the Year 
has turned the idea of advanc-
ing to the final four into a ral-
lying cry. 
She calls it the “December 
standard.”
“Basically, all of our behav-
ior, all of our choices, the way 
we train, is that good enough to 
be at a standard where we’ll still 
be playing in December?” Bur-
leigh said. “That kind of gives 
us something to point back to 
and focus on.”
The slogan began after senior 
Dougherty Howard and redshirt 
junior Seiler gathered their 
teammates and posed the two questions to them after a couple 
of UF’s recent losses in confer-
ence play.Soccer team 
eager to 
reach goal  SEARCHING FOR ANSWERS  
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
Quarterback Luke Del Rio will 
practice this week.
The man whose job he might 
be taking isn’t fazed.
“People want to make it Austin 
versus Luke,” Austin Appleby said 
Monday. “It’s not that.”
But in many ways, it is. Even though Del Rio's three 
starts were at home against un-ranked opponents and Appleby’s two starts came on the road — in-cluding a game against then-No. 14 Tennessee — the fact remains: Florida’s offense was undeniably better under Del Rio than Appleby.
Five weeks into the season, 
Florida ranks ninth in the South-eastern Conference in scoring offense (28.4 points per game), ninth in total offense (407.2) and is tied for ﬁ  fth in passing offense (246.4 yards per game).
While Del Rio was the starter, 
Florida averaged 33.7 points per game, 466 yards of offense per game and 264 yards passing per game, all signiﬁ  cantly better than where UF’s offense ranks two Gators'  oﬀ  ense a tale 
of two quarterbacks
SEE APPLEBY,  PAGE 14 SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14 SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 15Jim McElwain 
is tired of waiting.
Frankly, so 
is everyone 
else.
UF’s second-year 
head coach was 
brought in to over-
haul Florida’s of-
fense and make the Gators a threat on both sides of the ball.
It still hasn’t happened.The offense is in the middle of a game of hide and seek. And it seems like people 
have stopped look-
ing for it. 
They already 
know what they 
have, and it’s not 
good.
Look no further 
than Saturday’s win against Vanderbilt. 
In four quarters against a Com-modores team with nine wins Help wanted: UF still 
looking for lost oﬀ  enseFEARSOME MCPHERSON
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson112614   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
 FIVE THINGS YOU MISSED 
FROM JIM MCELWAIN’S 
MONDAY PRESS CONFERENCE
• Injured quarterback Luke Del Rio will practice today 
and Tuesday and will be re-evaluated on Wednesday 
by the coaching staff for Saturday’s game against LSU. 
If he is healthy, he’ll likely replace quarterback Austin Appleby on Saturday.
• With nearly all of UF's starting defensive linemen 
injured, coach Jim McElwain was pleased with how his 
younger players performed in their place on Saturday. Underclassmen CeCe Jefferson, Khairi Clark and 
Keivonnis Davis all started and combined for seven 
total tackles.
• McElwain said running back Jordan Scarlett may have separated himself from the other members of Florida’s backfield. Scarlett received nearly twice the 
amount of carries than any other running back against 
Vanderbilt on Saturday. It was his second consecutive 
game with the most carries.
• The offensive line’s youth is no longer an excuse. Three of Florida’s usual five starting offensive linemen 
are underclassmen, but McElwain is tired of hearing that as the reason for their poor play as of late. “This 
whole young offensive line thing, I’m over that, ” 
McElwain said. “These guys have played enough. I’m not one of these coaches who’s going to sit up here 
and pull the youth card. ”
• With Del Rio returning from injury, Appleby is feeling 
the heat to hold on to his starting job. But not the type of heat you might expect. “You talk about being 
a thermostat instead of a thermometer, ” Appleby said 
on Monday. “A guy that brings the heat as opposed to one who maybe feeds off of other people. ”games into Appleby’s tenure.
But coach Jim McElwain doesn’t 
see the quarterback position as the 
issue.
“Consistency and performance 
is nowhere where it needs to be. 
And yet, we’ve got pretty decent 
play out of the quarterback,” McEl-wain said.
Del Rio and Appleby have each 
completed just under 62 percent of their passes, and they’ve both proven they can provide explo-sive plays — Del Rio completed a 78-yarder to Antonio Callaway against Kentucky and Appleby threw a 51-yarder to the sopho-more receiver against Tennessee.
But Florida’s offense still ranks 
in the bottom half of its confer-ence’s standings.
“Am I excited about where it is? 
No,” McElwain said. “We’ve got to get better play at some positions, 
and we’ve got to get more energy 
out of those positions."
Part of fixing UF’s offense is get-
ting its starting quarterback back 
on the field.
Del Rio practiced Monday, and 
McElwain said he’ll continue to 
practice today and Wednesday. 
The coaching staff will re-evaluate 
him then and decide if he’s ready to play against LSU on Saturday.Meanwhile, Appleby will try his 
best not to lose the starting job to the same player who took it from 
him during preseason camp. 
But if Del Rio is healthy, it re-
mains a longshot that Appleby will 
continue to play.
“I think you always anticipate 
starting,” Appleby said. 
“Both of us want our number to 
be called. He wants to be healthy, 
he wants to be out there, and I 
want to be out there and playing. Because we both think we’re the one that gives our team the best 
chance to win.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgAPPLEBY,  from pg13Both completed about 62 percent of passes
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Luke Del Rio (left) is attended to by trainers after taking a low hit while coach Jim McElwain (right) walks 
away during Florida's 32-0 win over North T exas on Sept. 17. 
since Derek Mason took over the 
program in 2014, the Gators mus-tered a season-low 236 yards on 
offense. 
That’s the second-lowest of-
fensive output from the Gators in 
19 games under McElwain. The 
only game that was worse? Flor-
ida’s SEC Championship game loss to Alabama last season (180 yards).
Seven of Florida’s 12 drives 
against the Commodores on Sat-urday ended in punts. 
An eighth ended with a fumble 
on the 1-yard line. UF only made 
it into Vanderbilt territory five 
times.
Saturday was a chance to 
prove the second half against Tennessee was a fluke and that the Gators’ first three-and-a-half games weren’t just a fluke.
It was another chance wasted.“We’ve got all the talent in 
the world in our offensive room,” said quarterback Austin Apple-by, who has started the last two games while Luke Del Rio nursed a sprained MCL. “We’ve just got 
to make it simple and go out there 
and do what we do and bring that energy, play to our standard.”
Five games into the season, 
Florida is ranked 77th nationally in total offense (407.2 yards per game). 
Eight Southeastern Conference 
schools rank higher than Florida. 
The Gators are middle of the road, 
which is sadly slightly above the standard that was in place for the last five years. 
During the four years under Will Muschamp, Florida’s offense finished the season no higher than 96th in the Football Bowl Subdivision. 
McElwain and the Gators fin-
ished 112th last year.
The explosive plays are still 
few and far between. 
In five games, the Gators have 
just five runs longer than 20 yards and six receptions longer than 30 yards.
“Don’t wait,” McElwain said. 
“Go do it yourself. Take the ini-tiative. Jump out there. Be some-body. It’s not that hard.”
If it’s not that hard to step up, 
then what’s been the problem 
with the offense?
Was it the change in quarter-
back after a cheap shot put Del 
Rio out of commission for the last 
two weeks?“We’ve got pretty decent play 
out of the quarterback,” McEl-
wain said.
Well, after Appleby’s stellar 
first half against Tennessee (10-for-16, 213 yards, two touch-downs), the graduate transfer from Purdue has thrown for just 227 on a 32-for-51 passing clip 
with a touchdown, an intercep-
tion and the fourth-quarter goal-line fumble.
How about the inexperienced 
offensive line?
“I’m not one of these coaches 
who’s going to sit up here and pull the youth card,” he said. “They’ve played enough.”
Yet over the last two games, 
Florida’s running backs are aver-aging 3.7 yards per carry and of-fensive players were tackled for 
loss 13 times.Is it a lack of effort?
“Our effort is 100 percent bet-
ter,” McElwain said.
Then what’s the answer, 
coach? Is there an answer?
“Guys, we’re running out of 
opportunities,” McElwain said af-ter Saturday’s game. 
“We only have so many oppor-
tunities.”
There’s seven left this year — 
eight if they reach a bowl game.
“We’ll flash like we do time 
and time again of being prolific, being unstoppable, because we’re capable of it,” Appleby said. 
“We know we are.”Then show it.
Jordan McPherson is a sports 
writer. Contact him at jmcpher-
son@alligator.org and follow him on Twitter @J_McPherson1126 
COLUMN,  from pg13TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
“I think the big part of it was 
it came from the players,” Bur -
leigh said. 
“Not just those two players, it 
came from our leadership group 
and just the players in general 
knowing that we couldn’t con -
tinue to play the way we were 
playing.”
Burleigh decided to paint an 
orange line at the entrance of 
the team’s practice facility as 
a reminder to her players that 
everything they do in practice 
needs to be done in preparation for December. 
And after shutting out Ten
-
nessee on Sept. 25 and LSU on Friday, that preparation will 
continue into UF's Thursday 
match against Georgia as it tries 
to keep its two-matching win
-
ning streak alive.
“I think it’s going to be some -
thing really impactful as we 
move forward in the season,” 
Burleigh said. 
“I’m glad that our athletes 
are the ones that are driving 
that, too.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg 13UF has won 
two matches 
in a row
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Meggie Dougherty Howard dribbles the ball during Florida's 3-2 win over UCF on Sept. 18. 
The Associated Press
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Back in August, Florida State was 
expected to be contending for a spot in the College Football Playoff.
One weekend into October, the 
23rd-ranked Seminoles are search-ing for ways to salvage their sea-son.
Florida State (3-2) goes into 
Saturday’s game against rival No. 10 Miami struggling to stop a tail-spin that started in the middle of last season. FSU had won 35 of 36 games from December of 2012 until midway through last season, including a national championship in 2013, but is 7-5 in its last 12 after last Saturday’s 37-35 loss to No. 16 North Carolina. Of those five loss-es, that was the second to happen on the last play of the game.
They have also dropped their 
first two Atlantic Coast Conference games for only the third time since joining the league in 1992. The only time FSU has started 0-3 in ACC play was 2009.
Coach Jimbo Fisher spent most 
of Monday’s press conference say-ing players on the offense and de-fense weren’t at odds with each other and that his team was still united. After last Saturday’s loss running back Dalvin Cook and de-fensive end DeMarcus Walker both said that they did everything they could do during the game. Florida State took the lead with 23 seconds left on a Deondre Francois touch-down run before losing on a 54-yard field goal as time expired.
“Right now you’re going to find 
out the pretenders and the con-tenders on your team and who they are and what they really want to be, the true character,” Fisher said.
The majority of Florida State’s 
struggles are on the defensive side of the ball. It is allowing 6.98 yards per play, which is fourth-worst among the Football Bowl Subdivi-sion’s 128 teams. The Seminoles have also given up 25 plays of 30 yards or more, which is second-most in the nation.
Take out the Sept. 10 game 
against Charleston Southern (a Football Championship Subdivi-sion school) and the numbers are worse. FSU has allowed all four 
FBS opponents this season to score 
30 points or more. In 51 posses-
sions, opponents have scored 24 times, including 23 touchdowns, and allowed a TD on the opening 
drive of each game.
The only other time a Florida 
State defense has allowed more than 30 points and 400 yards per 
game was Bobby Bowden’s final season in 2009, when they went 7-6.
Fisher and defensive coordina-
tor Charles Kelly tried using cards last week to relay plays in from the sideline to make communica-tion easier. Fisher said that might be used again this week. He also said that Kelly will continue to call the plays but that Fisher would be more involved in evaluating schemes and personnel.
“We’ll support those guys and 
make sure they’re doing the right things and we’re doing the right things for the players,” Fisher said. “What can I help you do? Tell me how I can help you. What will make you prepare better? What will make you see it better? What can we do better? You’ve got to give them a voice too.”
Florida State has won six 
straight against Miami, but the Hurricanes (4-0, 1-0) are the high-
est-ranked team in Florida for the 
first time since Nov. 14, 2010. This 
will also mark the first time in 30 years that the Hurricanes come into the game ranked in the top 10 
and the Seminoles are ranked 20th 
or lower.
Fisher thinks facing a main ri-val this week could provide a little 
more incentive.
“I think it will get the kids’ at-tention to go down and play, know-ing what it means historically here to what happens,” he said.
Fisher struggling to stop No. 23 Florida State's tailspin
The Associated Press
Florida State head coach Jimbo Fisher, right, reacts to a play during FSU's 37-35 loss to North Carolina on Saturday in T allahassee.
16   ALLIGATOR     TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2016
GATORS IN THE NFL
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Week 4 of the NFL season an-
swered three big questions for Gator 
fans: How good are Washington’s stars? Who is the NFL’s best former Florida defensive player? And which rookie is off to the best start? Find out which Florida alums shined this week — plus who to watch out for — 
in our fourth regular-season edition of Gators in the NFL. 
Red-hot Redskins:
Washington’s offense has shown 
shades of Will Muschamp recruiting 
this season as former Gators Jordan Reed and Matt Jones remain the top 
two weapons in the Redskins’ arse-nal. 
Reed, a tight end, made NFL his-
tory this week. He caught his 200th career reception this, becoming the fastest tight end to reach the mile-
stone.
It took Reed only 38 games to hit 
the 200 mark, and he made a show 
of it on Sunday. 
The Redskins’ star tight end had 
two touchdowns by the end of the ﬁ  rst quarter to give Washington a comfortable lead. 
Reed’s former Florida teammate 
Quinton Dunbar also played a role in the win. The former receiver — who has been converted into a de-fensive back for Washington — re-covered a fumble in the second half. 
Following a fourth-quarter inter-
ception, running back Matt Jones led a scoring drive and punched in a 1-yard touchdown to put the 
Browns away with four minutes 
left. Jones has been the Gators’ best back in the NFL so far this season and rushed for his ﬁ  rst 100-yard game on Sunday. 
Dunlap dominates Miami 
offensive line:
Florida’s best defensive alumni 
this week was Cincinnati defensive lineman Carlos Dunlap. Dunlap won a national title with the Gators in 2009 and played like a champ on Thursday Night Football.
Miami’s offensive line stood no 
chance against Dunlap. He forced a fumble when he sacked Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill in the 
second quarter, and followed it up 
by sacking Tannehill again in the third quarter for an 8-yard loss. 
According to ESPN, only six de-
fensive ends have more sacks this year than Dunlap. Florida’s brightest rookie:While Vernon Hargreaves was 
the ﬁ  rst Gator drafted in 2016, an-other ﬁ  rst-round pick has lit up the NFC South. 
Keanu Neal led the Falcons’ de-
fense on Sunday with a team-high 
six solo tackles. After missing the 
start of the season because of a mi-nor knee surgery, the rookie safety has been huge for Atlanta’s defense in back-to-back wins against New Orleans and Carolina. 
He had a particularly tall task on 
Sunday, as the 5-foot 10-inch safety shadowed Greg Olsen, Carolina’s 
6-foot-5 Pro Bowl tight end. 
Neal locked him down for the 
ﬁ  rst three quarters, until Olsen 
broke free for a touchdown and 2-point conversion in the fourth quarter. 
“I was covering (Olsen) pretty 
much all day,” Neal told the At-lanta Journal-Constitution. “He’s an 
amazing player, great tight end. So 
going against him was a challenge, but I love challenges. He got me a few times, but that’s part of the game.”
What to watch for in Week 5:Is Mike Gillislee breaking 
through in Buffalo? 
The Bills’ backup running back 
has seen his role in the offense grow each week, from one touch Week 1 to three in Week 3 and seven against New England this weekend. While star halfback LeSean McCoy has a lock on the starting spot, the Bills used multiple backs to shoul-der the load last season — and so 
far, Gillislee’s making a strong case 
to be Buffalo’s go-to backup.
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org  Reed makes history, Neal outshining Hargreaves
Neal locked down pro-bowler Greg Olsen
The Associated Press 
Jordan Reed (86) catches a touchdown pass during Washington’s 31-20 win over Cleveland on Sunday 
in Landover, Maryland. The former Florida tight end caught two touchdowns during the game. 
