We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 167 TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
Football Fall camp is almost here
See our offensive and defensive 
projections, pg. 16Library West receives bronze alligator statue
It will go in the library’s colonnade after renovations,  pg. 3
Research Roundup
Strawberries, pest control, mushrooms and ﬁ  sh, pg. 8Security videos released
See the videos that led to the arrest of two UF football players at alligator.org
By Jessica Rodriguez
Alligator Staff Writer
In hopes of making a positive impact on 
the world, Breton Homewood joined the 
Peace Corps in 2012 and is now UF’s new 
the organization’s campus recruiter.
According to a Peace Corps list, UF ranks 
third in producing the most volunteers com-
pared to other large colleges and universities 
across the nation as of 2014. 
As a campus recruiter, Homewood said 
he hopes to make UF the No. 1 in volunteers. 
The University of Washington and Universi-ty of Wisconsin-Madison currently hold the 
top two spots. 
From September 2012 to December 2014, 
Homewood served as an agriculture volun-teer in Paraguay, where he worked with a 
community of about 100 people and helped 
with organic farming, beekeeping and back-
yard gardening for family nutrition. 
He also helped organize a youth camp to 
teach about environmental conservation, as well as a reforestation project in which he 
helped plant more than 3,500 native trees in the community. 
“I really wanted to be involved in helping 
make the world a better place,” Homewood 
said. “While I knew the impact from volun-teering is just one person, I really wanted to 
do something positive and meaningful and 
experience life from another culture’s per-spective. The Peace Corps was all of that and some.”
The Peace Corps is a U.S. government-run program dedicated to providing services around the world.
As of May, 58 UF graduates are serving all 
around the world with the Peace Corps, said 
Mabel Cardec, the communications manager 
for UF’s International Center.  
Victoria Dokken, a UF political science 
and economics graduate, is currently serv-
ing in Armenia as an inter-national community and youth development advi-sor.
UF political science 
graduate Christina Ertel currently works in Senegal as a sustainable agricul-ture volunteer.
Joshua Castro is completing a master’s 
degree in forestry and serving in Paraguay as a forestry volunteer.
UF linguistics graduate Angeline Dorvil was recently sworn in as a Peace Corps vol-unteer in Ethiopia and now serves as a ninth-grade English teacher.
Homewood said he hopes to connect with 
returning Peace Corps volunteers and pro-mote an on-campus program called Peace Corps Prep for Undergrad to give students a head start in the application process.
Homewood is a Gainesville native and 
graduated from Northern Arizona University with a bachelor’s degree in history and a mi-nor in math. He will start graduate school at UF in the Fall.
Homewood said the Peace Corps has had 
a lasting impact on him as well.
“It taught me a lot about myself, more 
than I realized it would,” he said. 
@jesskorina
jrodriguez@alligator.org Peace Corps names new UF campus recruiter
Homewood
58 UF graduates are enlisted
LOCAL
DISCOUNTED BEER 
WILL BE OFFERED IN 
EXCHANGE FOR
 DONATIONS.
By Nicole Kocian
Alligator Contributing Writer
Enjoy discounted craft beer 
while helping save the Asian el-ephant.
First Magnitude Brewing Com-
pany is hosting the second World Elephant Day celebration Aug. 11 from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. for the Con-
servation Initiative for the Asian 
Elephant.
The event is free, said Lane 
Abraben, First Magnitude’s event and project coordinator. With a 
ticket and wristband, he said, dis-
counts on beers will be offered, and some will be free.
Participants donate to get tick-
ets and wristbands, but these do-nations are voluntary, said Ron Chandler, the president and co-founder of the Conservation Initia-tive for the Asian Elephant.
Chandler, a UF professor, said there is a suggested minimum do-nation of $10, which gives guests tickets for 50 cents off their ﬁ  rst beers. With $20, guests get their 
ﬁ  rst beers free, and a $30 donation 
will give guests another 50 cents off all beers after the ﬁ  rst free drink.
Right now, Chandler said, el-
ephants are threatened by humans 
and palm oil plantations, which are 
driving them to extinction.
He said the event will help raise 
money to create a world heritage 
site in Meghalaya, a state in India 
that is home to one of the ﬁ  ve larg-est herds of Asian elephants left in the wild.
“Small donations go a long 
way,” he said.
Chandler said all of the dona-
tions go directly to the cause, and no one in his organization, includ-
ing himself, gets paid to put on the 
event.
There will be T-shirts for sale, 
as well as bumper stickers and wo-ven art, he said. Local band Flat 
Land will play, and Chandler said 
he expects between 200 to 300 peo-ple to attend.  First Magnitude to host 
conservation event
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
WADING IN THE WATER
Two-year-old Shayla Roberts plays in the water splash fountain at the newly opened Depot Park on 
Monday. The park will hold its grand opening on Aug. 20, but it had a soft opening this week.
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  72°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING
Creating Mobile Games
Creating Mobile Games is a 
course offered during Creative 
B to introduce students to 
conceptualizing, developing and implementing their own mobile games. This show-
case will share the work of 
this class Friday from 11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. at the Digital World’s Institute’s REVE in the Norman Gym. The event 
is free and open to the public. 
For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Gator Summer Orchestra 
concertThe UF School of Music pres-ents the final Gator Summer Orchestra concert on Thursday 
at 7:30 p.m. in the University 
Auditorium. The Gator Summer Orchestra, funded by the Office of the Provost as 
part of Creative B, is entirely 
student-run and is comprised of UF students, local high school and middle school stu-dents and Gainesville commu-
nity members. Come and enjoy 
the Gator Summer Orchestra’s second and final concert of the summer! The event is free and open to the public. For more information, please visit arts.ufl.edu.
Global Culture Photography 
ContestIf you are a UF student, fac-
ulty, staff or alumni travel-
ing abroad, or if you are an UF international student or scholar, you are eligible to enter the 2016 Global Culture 
Photography Competition.  
Judges will award a first-, sec-ond- and third-place winner in each of the four categories. 
First-prize winners will each 
receive $100, second-prize winners will receive $50 and third-prize winners will re-ceive $25. A total of $525 will 
be awarded. No photographic 
experience is required, just a love for snapping pictures and a yearning to explore!  The 
Submission period opens Aug. 
8.   Entries must be received no later than Oct. 7. For more information, visit ufic.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgettenberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. 
Please model your submis-
sions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted 
“What’s Happening” submis-
sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
CORRECTIONS
In an article titled "Online vot-ing to resurface," the Alligator incorrectly reported vot-
ing would take place Nov. 8. 
Voting will take place during the Spring semester, when the amendments are on the Spring 
2017 ballot. We apologize for 
any inconvenience this error might have caused.
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Alligator Staff, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Britney Jenkins, Juan Londono, 
  Alexandra LeCras, Christian Mayorga,
  Caroline Rhoades, Jeffrey Romer, 
  Mathews Silva, Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 167
TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR  3
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales Intern
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to 
intern@alligator.orgSales Representative
Gain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekendsEmail resume for sales rep position 
to Shaun O’Connor at 
soconnor@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Fal/l.end 2016
*Must be enrolled in fall classes 
at UF or Santa Fe to apply
By Marianna Faiello
Alligator Contributing Writer
Last week, the A.H. Burnett 
Foundation donated a bronze al-
ligator statue, designed by archi-
tect David Price, to be featured in 
the Library West Colonnade after renovations are complete. 
The alligator was released to 
Library West earlier than expect-ed after a donor paid $40,000 of his $100,000 pledge. This 9-foot alligator is about 420 pounds and currently resides on the third 
ﬂ  oor of Library West.
Judith Russell, the dean of University Libraries, said she was 
very excited about the addition of 
the alligator. 
“I was inspired after I came to 
the University of Florida in 2007 
and experienced a Gator football game,” she said. “All of the play-
ers pat Bull Gator before entering 
their game, and I thought, ‘Why don’t we have an academic gator, where students can pat the ga-
tor before they start studying for 
their classes?’” 
Barbara Hood, the director of 
communications for Library Sys-tems, said the colonnade will 
have charging stations, benches and gardens once renovations 
are ﬁ  nished. Handicapped seating will be available, and solar pan-
els will provide energy for fans, 
lights and chargers.
There is no projected opening 
date for the Library West Colon-nade, Russell said.
The money for the colonnade 
comes strictly from fundraising donations, which are used for tables, benches and even the al-
ligator statue. She said there are 
sponsorships ranging from $5,000 to $100,000, but students are able to donate smaller amounts of money as well.
Once Library West has enough 
money, construction should be done within about 80 days, Rus-sell said. Construction will be 
completed one side at a time to 
avoid disrupting the trafﬁ  c ﬂ  ow and to reduce the noise. 
Starbucks will also go under 
its own construction next sum-
mer to add an additional exit, 
Russell said.
According to his biography, 
David Price spent much of his 
childhood around salt marshes 
and pine forests, where he devel-oped an appreciation for nature. He sculpts human and animal forms in bronze and stone and 
currently serves as the president 
of Bok Tower Gardens. 
About 1.4 million people visit 
Library West each year, Russell 
said. The hope for the newly ren-
ovated colonnade, Russell said, is to provide a more welcoming area for Library West, where people can relax and spread out.  Library West renovations to 
feature bronze alligator statue
Zachariah Chou / Alligator
The 9-foot, almost 420-pound bronze statue is currently located on 
the third ﬂ  oor of Library West. It’s to be featured in a renovated library area when it’s complete. There is currently no projected completion date for the renovation.
By Brianna Ellis
Alligator Contributing Writer
People Against Violence Enterprises coordinated a back-to-
school event Saturday, giving away 2,000 backpacks ﬁ  lled with 
school supplies.
The 2016 Stop the Violence/Back to School Rally took place 
from 10 a.m. to noon at the Santa Fe College Gymnasium. Local businesses and organizations sponsored the rally with the theme “Kids in Crisis… We Got Your Back!”
The keynote speaker was Darius McCrary, an actor known for 
his role of Eddie Winslow on the television show “Family Matters.” He shared tips to prevent violence in the community.
“I want to communicate to kids that we are one,” he said. “They 
need to understand the importance of the commitment that (adults) 
have to their future.”
McCrary described those committed to students’ futures as “the 
pillars of community.” He organized these pillars into three branch-es: parents, teachers, and police ofﬁ  cers and law enforcement. Mc-
Crary made these points to the students at the Back to School Rally.
“If anyone makes you feel uncomfortable, you have got to tell 
someone,” he told the audience. “Mom and Dad have got your 
back.”
Reverend Karl Anderson, the founder and the president of PAVE, 
said he developed this year’s theme to provide help for young peo-
ple in crisis. This theme was established because of the death of 16-year-old Robert Dentmond on March 21.
“We can look at an issue and ignore it or we can look at an issue 
and learn from it,” Anderson said.
The Santa Fe College Gymnasium was packed with families and 
students ranged from kindergartners to seniors in high school.
“You would be surprised how many kids in kindergarten under-
stand what you’re saying and how many kids in high school need 
to be reassured of what you’re saying,” McCrary said.  Back-to-school event 
helps community kids
It emphasized unity
“W e can look at an issue and ignore it, or we can 
look at an issue and learn from it.”
Reverend Karl Anderson
founder and president of PAVE4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
By Jessica Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
More than 400 rainbow-colored links 
wrap around the main staircase of the 
Reitz Union in remembrance of the Pulse 
nightclub shooting. 
The project started July 7, and it will 
run through Aug. 25, spanning for 49 days 
in memory of all 49 people killed.
The UF Division of Student Affairs 
placed thousands of links at more than 20 locations for students, faculty and families to write positive messages of unity and hope on for the One Pulse Unity Project. 
Rick Garcia, a 20-year-old public rela-
tions junior, wrote the names of the vic-tims.
“It’s such a visual way for people to see 
that they aren’t alone,” he said.
Garcia said the project builds on the 
Pulse ceremony and the lighting of Century Tower. 
“This is a good way to honor the victims 
and to show people how to grieve, move on and live freely and positively in the wake of it,” he said. 
The closing ceremony will take place 
in the Reitz Union on the last day of the project.
Garcia said he is impressed to see the 
chain wind around the third ﬂ  oor.
“Some people might think that it’s stu-
pid or it’s just a paper chain, but when someone slows down going up the stairs to read those positive messages, you don’t know what that could mean to them,” he 
said. 
  Rainbow chain unites students in wake of Pulse shooting
By Jose Sanchez
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of Gainesville’s 
amateur musicians will show-
case its musical talents after practicing throughout the summer.
The Gator Summer Orches-
tra will perform a free hour-long concert at UF’s Univer-sity Auditorium on Thursday starting at 7:30 p.m.
Ismael Sandoval, the mu-
sic director, said the orchestra has about 50 members from UF, Santa Fe College and high schools in Gainesville and Ocala.
The show, he said, will in-
clude works such as the “Sim-ple Symphony” by Benjamin Britten, the “Academic Fes-tival Overture” by Johannes Brahms and Maurice Ravel’s orchestral version of “Pictures at an Exhibition” — originally composed by Modest Musso-rgsky.Nishad Vaidya, the concert 
master, said the orchestra is part of Creative B, a summer 
program funded by UF’s Of-
ﬁ  ce of the Provost.
He said musicians of all 
skill levels were welcomed to rehearsal twice a week, where 
they found the freedom to 
practice and have fun.
Classical music is less 
common on the radio, he 
said, even though it survived 
for more than 400 years as a 
genre with substance.
Vaidya said a lack of good 
music teachers, especially among elementary schools in 
the South, hurts the creativity 
of younger generations.
In turn, he and his volun-
teers are motivated to inspire students and guide them 
through the process of learn-
ing how to play music.
“If more people could ap-
preciate that,” he said, “then I think that will be the answer.”  Gator Summer Orchestra to perform free show Thursday
Students can write messages 
at the following locations:
Reitz Union
Dean of Students Ofﬁ  ce
Southwest Recreation Center
A full list of locations can be found at 
studentinvolvement.uﬂ  .edu
Zachariah Chou / Alligator 
The Gator Summer Orchestra performs at the 
UF School of Music on July 27. The orchestra will be holding a free concert at the University Auditorium on Thursday at 7:30 p.m.TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR  5
CRIME
By Sara Marino
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested a Mi-
canopy man Friday after they said 
he was under the inﬂ  uence of meth when he hit two cars last Easter, killing a 6-year-old boy and his own 4-month-old child. 
On March 27, Taylor Swilley, 21, 
drove his Kia Sorento on State Road 26 — his wife and two daughters in the car — and swerved into the op-posite lane, crashing into a Toyota Corolla, according to Alligator ar-chives. 
A 75-year-old man drove two 6 
year olds and one 8 year old in the Corolla.
GPD recently announced Swil-
ley’s toxicology reports tested posi-tive for meth that would have been in his system during the crash, ac-cording to a press release. 
After hitting the Corolla, Swilley then crashed into a Scion, which a 33-year-old Putnam County, Flori-da, woman drove. 
Steven Mor-
ton, 6, was pro-
nounced dead 
at UF Health Shands Hospital after the crash, 
and 4-month-old 
Faith Swilley died 
four days later, 
according to Alligator archives. 
An autopsy showed internal in-
juries to Morton’s head, torso and 
spine caused his death, among 
other injuries, according to a po-
lice report. Traumatic head inju-
ries caused the death of Swilley’s 
daughter, Faith.
At the time, authorities were un-
sure what caused Swilley to swerve into oncoming trafﬁ  c, GPD spokes-
man Ofﬁ  cer Ben Tobias said in 
March.“Emotions are ﬂ  aring and my 
family and I are trying to recover 
both mentally and physically,” 
Swilley wrote in a text message to 
the Alligator days after the crash. .
Tobias said Swilley’s toxicology 
reports were processed July 12. 
Police arrested Swilley on two 
counts of DUI manslaughter, three 
counts of DUI with serious bodily 
injury and three counts of DUI with 
damaged property, Tobias wrote in 
an email. 
Authorities took Swilley to Ala-
chua County Jail where, as of press 
time, he remains in lieu of a $1.75 
million bond. 
“While the arrest of Swilley will 
never bring back his 4 month old 
daughter or the 6 year old child, we 
are pleased that the person respon-
sible is now in jail,” Tobias wrote.
@saradmarino
smarino@alligator.org  Police: Man responsible for two 
Easter deaths arrested on Friday
Alligator Courtesy File Photo
A scene from the March 27 crash on State Road 26. T aylor Swilley, 21,  was recently arrested on eight charges. 
Swilley 
CAMPUS
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
Though the number of UF ad-
missions applications rose by more 
than 1,000 since the last school 
year, the number of students ac-cepted to the university went down.
Out of more than 32,000 appli-
cations, only 7,000 were accepted (about 22 percent), said Paul Ber-nard, a promotional copywriter at UF. The average GPA is more than 
4.0 in the class of 2020. 
Jaime Gresley, the director of 
new student and family programs, 
said UF is home to about 50,000 students, and it’s important for 
them to feel a sense of community. 
She said the key to bringing stu-
dents together is Preview, the uni-
versity’s mandatory orientation for new students that will end Aug. 18. 
“You can’t make a small cam-
pus big,” she said, “but you can absolutely make a big campus 
small.”
Brittney Leasure, 17, and Emily 
Tatum, 18, began classes at UF on 
June 26.
The freshmen are roommates at 
the Springs Residential Complex, 
and both said they supported each other throughout the 6-week Sum-
mer semester. 
“The ﬁ  rst week I felt really dis-
connected,” Tatum said. “I didn’t 
know who anyone was or where anything is, and I was freaking 
out.”
Leasure attended Preview on 
May 11, which helped introduce 
her to the campus, she said, but it was also about $200 more she had to spend as a new student.   
“Look at how much money col-
lege is already,” she said. Tatum said part of the Preview 
experience includes scheduling Fall and Summer classes.
“It was kind of tough because 
so many were already taken,” she 
said.
New students ﬁ  nd their sense of 
community in different ways, and 
Tatum and Leasure said they found theirs at the residence hall. 
Now they are looking to the 
future, which they imagine will include football and new hobbies.  
“I want to ﬁ  nd more clubs in 
the Fall,” Leasure said. “You’re just 
automatically friends with those 
people.”
The associate director of new 
student and family programs, 
Mickey Howard, said 54 academic advisors and 45 students make up the Preview team.
“We’re not just administra-
tors who sit in ivory towers,” he 
said. “We’re administrators on the 
ground who meet with students 
every single day.”
Preview begins and ends in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom, with 
things such as tours, class registra-
tions and information sessions in 
between, he said. 
Taylor Ouelette, a Preview staff 
member and a health education 
and behavior senior, said freshman 
year was a tough transition.
Ouellette said she now offers 
support to more than 450 students 
and follows up with them through 
email.
“I want to reassure them,” she 
said, “validate how they are feeling 
and encourage them to really put themselves out there.” 
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org More students apply, 
embark on Preview
•   •   ••   •   •The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnReimagining the 
2000 election 
that never was
It’s the last week of classes, and you’re diligently studying for 
ﬁ  nals in a library, coffee shop or “Pokegym” of preference. At least, that’s what you tell your people back home. Of course, like any college student in 2016, you’re in awe at the debacle that is our presidential election, dying for a conclusion to the 
endless media cycles of the “what-he-said-versus-what-she-said” between the two main candidates.
So, why on the ﬂ  ying-spaghetti-monster’s green Earth is the 
Alligator talking about the election this time when it’s literally everywhere? There’s a bold claim circling about unchallenged: “A vote for a third-party candidate is a vote for Donald Trump.”
With the Democratic National Convention behind us, and 
many Bernie supporters sticking to their guns and refusing to hop on board the Hill-train, this bold claim is growing in popu-
larity. Some tout this claim to pressure those blasted, no good 
third-party sympathizers, while others genuinely feel like we’ve run out of options against a “Trumptatorship.”
We at the Alligator aren’t going to tell you who to vote for; 
that’s not what we do. If you’ve supported Clinton this whole election and feel ecstatic at the prospect of voting for her, do your thing. If you’ve supported Trump this whole election… come by the ofﬁ  ce sometime and ﬁ  nd our opinions editor, David — a good healthy debate of ideas and facts is in order.
And if you supported Bernie the whole election, and now 
you’re jonesing for the Johnson, “Steining” your ground with the Greens or “Hillblazing” with the Clintons, have at it. Vote the way you will. Just make sure you vote on your own terms rather than fear. Don’t listen to those who would scream the words “Ralph Nader!” at you until they’re (Democrat) blue in the face.
In the 2000 election, Nader won 2.7 percent of the popular 
vote. Just to give some context as to how small of a vote total that is, “Deez Nuts” back in August 2015 polled at 9 percent 
compared to Clinton and Trump. Even at the beginning of July, 
the left-leaning Public Policy Polling found “a giant meteor hit-ting Earth” polled at 13 percent against Clinton and Trump.
If Al Gore really did lose against George Bush because of Nad-
er’s 2.7 percent steal, then maybe the issue wasn’t Nader: Maybe the issue was Gore. If your party’s candidate can’t beat Bush, or Trump for that matter, with Nader or “Deez Nuts” in the race, maybe your party’s candidate is just a really weak candidate. Maybe the issue isn’t the voters but rather the party establish-
ments gambling the country with weak, unfavorable candidates.
We have the emails and patterns to show how the Democrat-
ic National Committee invested all of its will into Clinton, despite 
her consistent struggles against Trump in the polls. Meanwhile, we had another candidate who polled signiﬁ  cantly better than Trump the entire primary.
If the DNC’s priority was beating Trump, we’d be breath-
ing far more easily, because Bernie would be the nominee, and he’d be polling amazingly against Trump — not the 3.9 polling 
average Clinton has against Trump right now; even after a post-
convention boost.
The parties, alongside the horse-race journalism of major me-
dia, crafted and passed down this disaster to the voters, and if it all falls apart, it’ll be their fault for gambling the future of the country for a favored candidate and boosted ratings — not third-party voters.
Let’s just hope “Deez Nuts” doesn’t miraculously make it on 
to the ballot and give us a real Nader effect.Summer’s end, the mighty storm ahead
In the opening scene of the adored Disney classic “High School Musical,” an eclectic set of multi-dimensional and well-intended teenagers burst out of a classroom in song, vividly expressing the excitement of the 
summer vacation to come. For those of you whose teenage blunder years were also not nearly as animated as this scene, there was one student made for us. In the back of the class-room, for the entirety of what is really just this obnoxious ﬂ  ashmob, an adolescent young man lays head-in-arms on his desk.
I always liked to imagine that he was so embedded in 
this universe, such a stitch in the fabric of the ﬁ  lm, that 
even while he sprawled in despair on the desk, he was 
at least muttering the lyrics under his breath, while his classmates literally jumped on desks like apes and ﬂ  ung textbooks like apes ﬂ  ing shit. Joke’s on you, twerps. Soon you’re all going to learn how expensive those suckers are.
“What time is it?” he asks pensively, himself becoming 
part of the void of blackness created when his eyelids are squished between the pressure of his heavy eyes forced on his slouched elbows.
Ominously, he whispers, “The time of our lives.”Fearfully, he hushes, “Anticipation.”While their summer is just about to begin, ours is com-
ing to an end. Whether you felt like that young man sleep-ing through class, dreading what was to come, or as giddy as the presumably underage young man who kissed his seasoned teacher, one thing is for certain: This summer has been memorable. Between UF Student Government switching the 24-hour policy from Marston to Library 
West (déjà vu, it seems like this is all they really do), lit-
erally anything the potato-esque Donald Trump has said and the latest “Game of Thrones” episode, a lot of stuff happened this summer.
This coming Fall, a lot of us are going to be moving 
on to bigger and better things. Some of our alumni are continuing their studies with graduate school. Others are working wonderful jobs doing truly amazing things. Moreover, the Ol’ Ball Coach will be home, and my earliest class is an 11:45 a.m.
But some really intimidating things wait 
for us. For those who don’t know history are doomed to repeat it. Those who do know his-
tory are doomed to repeat it with everybody 
else. In terms of federal elections, a lot is up for grabs: 34 Senate seats, 435 House seats and the coveted presidency are at stake. Along with the presidency comes a nomination to ﬁ  ll the vacancy in the Supreme Court. With the Senate 
having most of its seats in contention, it’s likely the ma-jority of the Senate will soon mimic the party afﬁ  liation of our next president. We need to head into our voting 
booths level-headed, unaffected by emotions and with a 
real and practical understanding of how our political sys-tem works, ranging from the navigation of complex legal processes to diplomacy so basic a child could teach it (it’s not nice to say you’re going to hit someone because he hurt your feelings, little Donald, you whiny orange child).
So whether you jump into this Fall with an artiﬁ  cial 
enthusiasm that only a high school drama student could embody or you drag your feet moping into the future 
with the malaise only a high school drama student could 
embody, I ask you to humbly remember that your ac-tions, from the voting booth to the stands in The Swamp, ripples into the lives of others. Like high school, every-thing is connected, and things (read: hurtful words, lat-est gossip, STD’s) spread quickly. Moreover, Florida is a swing state that decides elections. We are students at the ﬂ  agship educational institution of this state. Let’s lead by example not only with responsible civic participation, but 
also via mature and respectable conduct in and out of the 
classroom.
That said, I’d like to thank you all for joining me this 
summer in this personal experimentation with column writing. I’m looking forward to seeing you all again next semester. Go Gators.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. His column 
appears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgLetters to the Editor
Dear Editor,
With reference to the front page 
news dated July 26, “Students with 
disabilities still face struggles at UF,” 
I would like to kindly make my point.
Being that guy in the picture, I feel em-
barrassed. I still remember the situation. Al-
most a year ago, near Rawlings Hall, I saw 
a lady (the photographer Lisa Ryzhikova) taking photos of Hailey Remigio. I thought they were filming. Otherwise, why would someone take pictures of the struggle of a 
human being instead of lending his or her 
helping-hand?
That’s why I decided not to disturb them 
and kept going. Now, I realize that I was 
framed in the photo and fit the perspective 
of the story. This was totally uncalled for.
I understand Remigio and other students 
with disabilities face struggles, but it’s not true that “no one actually” stops to help, 
especially in a college town. We are always 
there by their side.
Satyajit Ghosh is a UF statistics doctoral 
student.TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7 
Smaller pieces create what we consider life. Therefore, understand-
ing the building blocks 
of existence makes 
us not researchers, but rath-er seekers of understanding. 
These were the welcoming 
words of Dr. Juan Manuel Lo-pez-Alcorocho, the director of quality control of Amplicel, on the first day of my internship. 
This past summer I decided to apply to 
an intern position at Unidad Investigativa Clinica Cemtro in Madrid, Spain. As soon as I got hired, my mind became over-
whelmed with doubts and concerns: Am 
I going to be a good intern? Do I have the required skills and knowledge? With fear and an apprehensive attitude toward hesi-tation, I went to my first day and tried to 
confront it with the best attitude I could 
serve. At the end of that day, I didn’t only leave the clinic with the brightest smile on my face but also with a feeling of con-
nection. For the first time since I was a 
freshman, I understood what it meant having passion for your craft.
As a senior microbiologist, it is expect-
ed that we spend most of our time learn-
ing the chemistry and biology of microbes 
before we are able to get hands-on expe-rience. However, the project, directed by Dr. Pedro Guillen, Dr. Juan Manuel Lo-
pez-Alcorocho and Dr. Elena Rodriguez at 
Clinica Cemtro, is not only a revolution-ary joint regenerative therapy, but also an innovative technique that involves autol-ogous cell implantation in patients with 
articular problems.
As it is known, cartilage is a support-
ive, protective and lubricant tissue that 
allows articulations to move and guards 
our bones from friction and self-damage. 
Sadly, this tissue doesn’t have the ability to regenerate if it gets injured, and it has the tendency to get degraded as it gets overused. 
Cartilage has the ability to re-
pair itself, but when it does, the new material doesn’t present the properties that provide the char-
acteristic of articular function to 
the affected joint.
As a consequence, the pa-
tient, who is usually a highly competitive athlete, suffers pain 
and retreat from daily activities such as sports or movement-required exercises. This newly developed technique, denomi-nated as ICC (Instant Cemtro Cell, in Eng-
lish), has established a protocol where 
patients get implanted with their own, laboratory-grown cells, which are able to regenerate cartilage with articular proper-ties.
This procedure requires two surgeries. 
One is needed for the extraction of tissue that gets cultivated and proliferated un-der optimal conditions, and the second 
procedure implants a collagen membrane 
flooded with cells on the affected area of the damaged joint. Experimental results have shown a notorious improvement on health quality and retrieval to exercise ac-
tivities.
I was honored by getting hands-on ex-
perience with the entire evolution of the 
technique on patients for almost three 
months. From spending hours in the pro-
duction lab to being part of departmen-tal meetings learning about the required quality control, I was able to be fully in-volved in the body of work behind cell 
therapy. What seemed to be an ambition 
in the past is now being challenged by new generations who are able to trace the line between possibilities and results.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology 
senior.Goals and possibilities in microbiologyGuest column
Andrea 
T aboada
Speaking OutIt’s been nearly nine years since CIA assassin Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) dis-
appeared at the end of “The 
Bourne Ultimatum.” The 
film was the impressive closing chapter to a superior espionage 
story, tying up Bourne’s myste-
rious past and exposing the pro-gram that created him.
Not surprisingly, Hollywood couldn’t 
let a good story end — first with Jeremy 
Renner’s “The Bourne Legacy,” and now 
Damon’s own return to the franchise: “Jason Bourne.” Alongside him is Paul Greengrass, the director of “The Bourne 
Supremacy” and “The Bourne Ultima-
tum,” who takes charge of this divert-ing but underwhelming chapter of the “Bourne” saga.
The film starts when the retired Bourne 
is drawn back into battle. He’s tasked by old friend Nicky Parsons (Julia Stiles) with stopping CIA director Robert Dewey (Tommy Lee Jones) from creating an inva-
sive surveillance program. With the help 
of another CIA agent, Heather Lee (Alicia Vikander), he uncovers more information about his past along the way.
Bullets and bloodshed abound as “Ja-
son Bourne” throws its titular character into the familiar territory of car chases and fistfights. Greengrass shows he still knows how to make an action sequence with 
over-the-top intensity during Bourne’s 
frenetic, destructive pursuit of an enemy assassin (Vincent Cassel) down the Las Vegas Strip.
But there’s less meaning to the vio-
lence this go-around: The big mysteries surrounding Bourne’s shady past have al-ready been solved, and the film is forced to come up with an uninspired personal 
angle to make its story relevant. Bourne’s 
quest becomes bogged down with daddy issues as he discovers the truth about his father’s death — as if viewers couldn’t guess the 
answer he finds. The conflict 
doesn’t show the audience any-thing new about the character; it’s just an excuse for Bourne to 
shoot some people and wreck 
property.
Just as it fails to justify its 
existence, “Jason Bourne” also doesn’t work as a smart thriller. The movie talks 
about why surveillance is bad, but that’s 
all it ever does: talk. It doesn’t weave its messages cleverly into the story, choosing instead to deliver them through clunky, 
on-the-nose speeches. There’s a distinct 
divide between when the movie decides to be “relevant” and when it decides to be “fun.” There’s never a moment where they go hand-in-hand.
On the bright side, Damon is a strong 
enough presence for the story to remain somewhat engaging, and it’s still fun to watch him outsmart his onscreen ene-
mies. Bourne isn’t interested in espousing 
some “Big Idea” — he’s here to kick ass and look good doing it.
Younger and less experienced than 
“Bourne” mainstay Parsons, Vikander’s 
Lee becomes a replacement of sorts for 
the former. She’s distinguished by her icy demeanor, but Vikander offers glimpses of warmth when Bourne shows her some 
vulnerability. It’s left to the audience to 
decide whether her moments of humanity are genuine, though.
Disappointing compared to its prede-
cessors, “Jason Bourne” is still a mildly 
involving romp that delivers a worthwhile 
bang for a matinee price. Universal plans to produce more sequels, but perhaps it’s best to let Bourne retire from service.
A version of this column by Charles Liu 
originally ran in The Daily Texan.‘Bourne’ again: film underwhelmsUWire
Charles Liu
UWireLetter to the editor
8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
RESEARCH ROUNDUP
Study ﬁ  nds people don’t know 
health beneﬁ  ts of mushrooms
Over 80 percent of consumers are 
unaware of the health beneﬁ  ts of 
mushrooms, according to a recent sur-
vey conducted by UF/IFAS research-
ers. 
The fungus is low in calories, fat-
free, cholesterol-free, gluten-free and 
very low in sodium, according to the 
Mushroom Council. 
Mushrooms have also been linked 
to supporting a healthy immune system, said Yuan Jiang, a food and 
resource economics doctoral student 
who conducted the survey.
Despite these many beneﬁ  ts, the 
survey revealed only 18.5 percent of 
respondents said they knew the health 
beneﬁ  ts of mushrooms, she said.
“It was very surprising to see 
this,” Jiang said. “In the beginning, I thought that maybe half of respon-
dents should know the beneﬁ  ts, so to 
see only about 20 percent of them ac-tually know anything was shocking.”
The survey also analyzed the fac-
tors affecting mushroom consumption among consumers, Jiang said.
Consumers prefer fresh mushrooms 
as opposed to canned or processed ones, and their choice to buy mush-
rooms and how often to consume 
them is affected most by the nutrition beneﬁ  ts that they provide, she said.
Jiang said this information can be 
useful to the mushroom industry in furthering sales among consumers.
“We know that the more you are 
aware of the health beneﬁ  ts, the more likely you are to try mushrooms and 
eat them more frequently,” she said. 
“If producers add the health claims to the packaging, it can help inform more people.”
- Rachel DonohueUF researchers successfully breed 
Dory ﬁ  sh
After about six years of research, UF 
scientists recently found a way to breed 
Paciﬁ  c blue tang in captivity. 
Craig Watson, the director of the UF 
Tropical Aquaculture Laboratory, said 
the team focused on breeding blue tang, 
made famous by Dory from “Finding Nemo,” because they are iconic. How-ever, he said the team faced many chal-lenges because the ﬁ  sh are sensitive. 
“We were having problems from the 
very beginning with simple things like getting a good hatch, so it’s been a pro-cess of knocking out the walls that were 
in our way,” he said.
The study’s breakthrough occurred 
in 2015 after a research team in Hawaii 
was able to successfully breed yellow tang in captivity. 
Kevin Barden, a UF biologist, spent 
three days in Hawaii learning what tech-niques were used and later applied them to breeding blue tang.
Three days after the ﬁ  sh eggs 
hatched, Watson said the ﬁ  sh developed eyes and a mouth. He said the ﬁ  sh had their signature blue color by day 51. 
Watson said the ﬁ  sh are currently 
about the size of a quarter and will con-tinue to grow as they mature, which he said could take about eight months. 
After the study’s success, Watson 
said his team is developing plans to use the same technique on other ﬁ  sh species.
“We’re very encouraged because the 
tangs have notoriously been one of the hardest species for anybody,” he said, “and so I believe that if the team can do what they did with this ﬁ  sh, they can replicate it with other species as well.”
One of the ﬁ  sh species currently 
being tested is schooling bannerﬁ  sh, which look similar to the character Gill from Pixar’s 2003 ﬁ  lm.
-Jessica GonzalezNew technology helps strawberry 
farmers
A new web tool created by UF 
professors has enabled strawberry 
growers to save up to $1.7 million a 
year, according to a press release.  
The free tool is called the 
Strawberry Advisory System (SAS).
The design and study of the 
SAS was led by Natalia Peres, a UF 
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences associate professor of plant pathology, and Clyde William Fraisse, a UF/IFAS associate professor of 
agricultural and biological engineering.
The program was funded by 
multiple grants from the USDA 
agricultural sector and took seven 
years of development and testing.
Before SAS, farmers would spray 
their crops weekly.
SAS was made to monitor 
for diseases such as food rot in strawberries. It alerts farmers when it 
is essential to spray fertilizers, Peres said.  Although SAS is mainly used in Florida, new funding has allowed it to 
expand to ﬁ  ve other states, Peres said.
“We hope to reach as many 
strawberry growers as we can, helping 
them better manage their crops and apply fungicide only when it is 
necessary,” said Fraisse.
Al Herndon, from Ferris Farms in 
Floral City, is a local farmer, and he 
said he has saved about $25,000 to 
$30,000 using SAS.
“The system works well,” Herndon 
said. “It saves money and time, and 
makes running the farm easier because of it.”
-Johana WiznitzerUF researcher looks into 
sustainable pest control
What happens when pesticides stop 
killing pests? Small-scale gardeners and 
professional farmers buy new chemicals, which pests eventually resist, just like the solutions they replaced.  
Janine Spies, a postdoctoral UF student 
and researcher in the department of entomology and nematology, said this is a cycle she hopes to help end with her research on non-chemical methods for intercropping in squash crops.
“It’s pretty easy to apply all these 
chemicals to control pests,” she said. “You see a problem, you buy a chemical.”
Spies worked with UF/IFAS 
entomology professor Oscar Liburd and UF/IFAS entomology associate professor Susan Webb to ﬁ  nd a less expensive and less harmful alternative to chemical pesticides. 
Spies developed a method of planting 
that places buckwheat and squash together in alternating rows. She said 
through this intercropping, the buckwheat 
served as a physical barrier that prevents pests from eating leaves and spreading viruses to the squash.
“What was new, speciﬁ  cally with the 
research that I was doing, was that in the past, research has kind of had issues ﬁ  nding the same amount of yields,” Spies said. 
She said scientists knew buckwheat 
could protect squash, but they couldn’t intercrop the plants without causing a natural competition for nutrients, which led to lower amounts of crops.  
Spies said in addition to ﬁ  nding a 
safer alternative for the environment, consumers and non-threatening organisms, her work was motivated by 
the prominence of squash in Florida’s 
agricultural industry. 
“Florida leads the country in value of 
production of squash,” she said.
-Anna JacksonTUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR  9
THE END OF AN ERA
Photos by Alan Alvarez
Alligator Staff 
Wayne Tinny (left), 74, and Janet Sherman, 59, dance along to a song played by The Couch 
Messiahs on Saturday night. Sherman said she will now have “one less place to dance, especial-ly where you can swing dance” as a result of the upcoming demolition of the Unified Training Center and surrounding buildings. The Couch Messiahs’ band leader Mick Marino sings “A World Without T ears” at the Unified Training Center’s Last Dance event on Saturday night. Marino started the band more than 10 years ago and said, “Once you’ve learned how to play music, it’s addictive. ”
The Unified Training Center, located off University Avenue, celebrated its history on Saturday night as the building is scheduled to be closed and demolished in the coming 
months. The Couch Messiahs and The Impostors performed several songs with over 50 people in attendance.10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
MIAMI (AP) — Government 
health officials warned pregnant 
women Monday to avoid a Zika-stricken part of Miami and told couples who have been there re-
cently to put off having children 
for at least two months, after the number of people feared infected through mosquito bites in the U.S. climbed to 14.
In its highly unusual and per-
haps unprecedented travel warn-ing, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also said expectant 
mothers should get tested for the 
virus if they have visited the neigh-borhood since mid-June.
All 14 cases are thought to have 
occurred in Miami’s Wynwood arts district, a trendy, fast-gentrifying neighborhood of warehouses, art galleries, restaurants and bou-
tiques.
Gov. Rick Scott asked for a CDC 
emergency response team to help 
Florida combat Zika, which has 
been sweeping Latin America and 
the Caribbean in recent months and now may be gaining a long-dreaded foothold in the U.S. The White House said a team will be sent quickly.
Health officials last Friday an-
nounced that mosquitoes have ap-parently started spreading Zika on the U.S. mainland, citing four cases they strongly believe were caused by bites. Ten more cases were an-
nounced Monday, even though Florida authorities have yet to find 
any mosquitoes actually carrying the virus.
CDC officials said they could not 
remember another time in the 70-year history of the disease-fighting agency when it told members of the public not to travel someplace in the U.S.
Zika infections in pregnant 
women can cause severe brain-related birth defects, including extremely small skulls. The glob-al outbreak has led to more than 1,800 serious defects.
The virus can linger in the blood 
and urine for weeks and has been found in sperm for months. As a re-
sult, the CDC said men and women 
who have recently been in the af-fected area should wait at least eight weeks before trying to con-ceive a child. And men who have had symptoms of Zika should wait at least six months, the CDC said.
The travel warning covers an 
area of about one square mile in Wynwood to the east of Interstate 95 and south of I-195. It’s large enough, health officials said, to 
provide a buffer around the sus-
pected hot zone. The tropical mos-quito that spreads Zika travels less than 200 yards in its lifetime.
Of the 14 people infected, two 
are women and 12 are men. Eight patients showed symptoms of Zika, which can include fever, rash, joint pain and red eyes. The others had no symptoms. The disease is of-ten so mild that most people don’t know they are infected.
“We will continue to keep our 
residents and visitors safe utilizing constant surveillance and aggres-sive strategies, such as increased mosquito spraying, that have al-lowed our state to fight similar vi-ruses,” the governor said in a state-ment.
More than 1,650 cases of Zika have been reported in U.S. states, nearly all the result of travel to a Zika-stricken country or sex with someone who was infected abroad.
CDC warns pregnant women against Zika in part of Miami
The Associated Press
A Miami-Dade County mosquito control worker sprays around a home in the Wynwood area of Miami 
on Monday. The CDC has issued a new advisory that says pregnant women should not travel to a Zika-stricken part of Miami, and pregnant women who live there should take steps to prevent mosquito bites and sexual spread of the virus.
NEWS FROM AROUND THE NATION
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
ELLICOTT CITY, Md. (AP) — The 
picturesque main street of Ellicott 
City — quaint with brightly colored storefronts — was in shambles Mon-day, two days after a catastrophic 
storm ripped through town, shatter-
ing glass windows, swallowing cars, demolishing structures and devour-ing their foundations.
Severely damaged were antique 
shops, restaurants, a toy store and a beloved bar steps from the Patapsco River that local officials say opened their doors to feed rescue crews who 
responded to a fatal train derailment, 
the small city’s last disaster.
This disaster though, was dif-
ferent: The magnitude of the storm threatened to wash away the historic boulevard, leaving behind water-logged remnants of what stood there before.
The storm claimed the lives of two 
visitors, Jessica Watsula and Joseph Blevins, whose cars were swept into the Patapsco River’s raging waters.
As the rain fell and the waters 
rose, residents rushed into harm’s way to rescue each other. One group formed a human chain to save a trapped motorist; Jonathan Butkus, 37, raced into the waist-deep water and carried a teenager out of a car on his shoulders.
“It was the scariest thing I’ve 
ever seen in my entire life,” he said. “On Sunday, I woke up shaking. We could have all died. It was like Arma-geddon.”
Butkus lives on Main Street, above 
a carpet shop, and said at about 7:30 p.m. Saturday water began rushing through his back door with alarming force. When he went downstairs, he found the streets flooded. Cars, he said, “were like napkins blowing in the wind.”
When he noticed a teenager stuck 
in a car he immediately jumped into 
the water and raced toward him.
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan 
toured the damaged area Sunday 
along with Howard County Execu-tive Allan Kittleman and U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, who has an office in the town. Hogan declared a state of emergency, which will allow greater aid coordination and assistance.
“No one has ever seen devasta-
tion like this in Ellicott City or any-where in Howard County,” Kittleman said. “There are a lot of businesses that are going to be hurting for a long time. There are a lot of people that lost their apartments and their homes.”
On Monday construction crews 
crowded Main Street, which slopes sharply toward the river, using cranes to clear debris.
Johnny Breidenbach, the owner 
and chef of Johnny’s Bistro on Main, said he closed his restaurant around 
7:30 Saturday night, before the worst 
of the flooding, and he hadn’t been able to get back there to assess the damage.
“They told me that the door was 
totally ripped away from the hinges, and I don’t know how much water I have inside,” Breidenbach told The AP by phone Sunday.
Ellicott City was established in 
1772 as a mill town along the Pata-psco, and many 18th and 19th-Cen-tury buildings were still intact before Saturday’s floods. Once a home to mill workers, in recent decades it has become known for restaurants, art galleries, antique shops and nightlife.
Ed McDonough, a spokesman for 
the Maryland Emergency Manage-ment Agency, said officials won’t have a comprehensive damage estimate until building inspectors say damaged structures are stable enough for closer examination.
Historic Maryland town faces 
long recovery after flooding 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
NEW YORK (AP) — McDon-
ald’s, which is trying to shake its 
image for serving processed junk food, said Monday it’s eliminat-ing some unpalatable ingredients 
from its most popular menu items.
That includes making Chicken 
McNuggets and other items with-
out artificial preservatives, and removing high-fructose corn syr-up from its burger buns. McDon-ald’s did not immediately respond when asked about which specific preservatives are being removed.
The changes come as the 
world’s biggest burger chain fights to win back customers after three straight years of declining guest counts at its established U.S. loca-tions.
“Why go to the position of 
trying to defend them, if the con-sumer is saying, ‘I prefer not to 
have that particular ingredient 
in my food?’” said Mike Andres, the president of McDonald’s U.S., during an event at the company’s headquarters in Oak Brook, Illi-nois, about its “food journey.”
Michael Jacobson, the execu-
tive director for the Center for Sci-ence in the Public Interest, said the moves by McDonald’s don’t seem to address the big-picture problem with restaurant food — the overabundance of calories.
For instance, he said swapping 
out high-fructose for sugar doesn’t make burger buns any healthier.
In the past year and a half, 
McDonald’s has also switched to butter from margarine for its Egg McMuffins and added kale and spinach to its salads. Its rivals have made changes as well.
Dunkin’ Donuts, for instance, 
has promised to put more egg in its egg patty. Currently, the patty looks like a fried egg but is a com-
posite of ingredients including egg 
whites, water, egg yolks and mod-ified corn starch.
But convincing people it serves 
wholesome food is particularly important for McDonald’s, which has long courted families with its Happy Meals.
McDonald’s had signaled that 
tweaks to its menu were in store, telling investors during a presenta-tion in late 2014 that it was evalu-ating its cooking procedures and ingredients as part of its push to fix its struggling businesses.McDonald’s nixing
some ingredients BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.
Available 8/1/16. $1,100. or $275 per  bedroom 
Call / text 239-370-8735    8-22-16-21-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. 1 avail. Immed. & 1 avail. 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   8-23-16-17-1
2 Male Grad students looking for one male roommate who is clean & studious. Windsor Park - 3/3, own bed/bath, on bus stop close to UF. Avail Aug 1st for year lease. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo + 1/3 util Call Joshua 407-342-0617 / Charlie 407-810-3489     8-22-16-15-1
4/4 All inclusive w/cable and utility pkg. 1800 SF furn. exc. for beds. Countryside at UF- call or text Cindy for pics or to see-352-339-3763. 8-4-16-5-1
Furnished 2BR/2BA in 4BR/4BA Countryside condo. Rent $400/rm/mo with 1st month FREE in year lease. Utilities, basic cable, and internet included. E-mail: countryside -
apt@gmail.com     8-23-16-5-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,
2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
2BR/1BA Apartment located across the street from Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. $1000/MO-$1000 Security Deposit. Utilities & Cable not included. No Pets. Shown by Appointment Only. 16 NW 20th Terrace, 32603. (352-332-3945) 8-4-16-5-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
AVAILABLE AUG 15 - Large room pvt bath, newly renovated. 10 mins from Shands. Perfect for med or grad student. Large quiet home $525/mo + share utilities. Please call 850-420-2122    8-22-16-10-4Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  8-15-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified5 Real Estate12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $99902 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                     8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                       8-15-25-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-12
SUZUKI FORENZA 2006
Automatic, A/C, white, 125K miles. All power. 
$2800/OBO. Call 352-219-1298    8-26-16-
8-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     8-22-16-5-13This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
EXPERIENCED COOK WANTED
Cafe Risque - Micanopy, FL
caferisqueflorida@yahoo.com
Apply in Person (352) 466 - 3808
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
9-14-30-14
CSR (Customer Service Rep) needed part-time at University Air Center. Please apply online at UAC.aero.      8-2-16-10-14
NEED CLINICAL EXPERIENCE BEFORE ENTERING MEDICAL SCHOOL?Paid, Full-time employment.Training provided.Send resume to Dr. Levy, afn22025@att.net    8-4-6-14
AUTOMOTIVE TECHNICIAN NEEDED. Must have diagnostic skills & exp in both for-eign and domestic vehicles and have tools. Fax resume to 386-758-4759 or email to cacrepair@yahoo.com    8-2-16-5-14
Country Inn & Suites currently seeking front desk rep,  night auditor,  & housekeeping at-tendant. Hotel front desk exp. preferred. Also seeking part time house man. Apply in per-son 4015 SW 43rd St Gainesville, Fl 32608  8-2-16-5-14
Work with the Gators!
Part-Time & Flexible Hours!
Seeking Supervisors, Warehouse Staff,
Cashiers, Bartenders & Cook
Apply in person at
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
352-692-6244
9-1-16-12-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-
25-15Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
1. Who was the last player before 
Seattle’s Nelson Cruz in 2015 to have 
two separate streaks of five consec-
utive games with a home run in the 
same year?
2. Between 1967 and 1972, Fer -
guson Jenkins had six consecutive 
20-win seasons for the Chicago Cubs. 
Did any Cubs teammate notch 20 wins during that time? 
3. When was the last time before 
2015 that Temple beat Penn State in football?
4. Who was the last Toronto Raptors 
player before Kyle Lowry (2013-14 through 2015-16) to have three con-secutive 100-steal seasons?
5. When was the last time before 
2016 that the New York Islanders 
advanced to the second round of the 
playoffs?
6. Name the last driver before 
Kyle Busch in 2016 to sweep all the NASCAR national series races for two consecutive weeks.
7. When was the last time before 
2016 that more than one American female tennis player reached the quar -
terfinals of the French Open?
Answers
1. Philadelphia’s Chase Utley, in 
2008.
2. Bill Hands won 20 in 1969.3. It was 1941. Penn State was 38-0-
1 during the 74 years in between.
4. Alvin Williams (2000-01 and 
2002-03 seasons).
5. It was 1993.6. Harry Gant, in 1991.7. It was 2004 (Jennifer Capriati and 
Venus and Serena Williams).
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
August 1, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 ServicesTUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR   13
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Lost Small Blind White Dog with black face. 
Last seen Madera Subdividion.All info ap-
preciated. Picture at- https://flic.kr/p/KfkeBu 
Bonzaicb@yahoo.com 352-222-1080     8-4-
5-25When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
Happy Birthday Elena!
Wish you a happy life and forever 21
(fzgk)
8-2-1-18
ACROSS
1 Stare in
astonishment
5 Phased-out jets
9 Duvet filler
14 October
birthstone
15 Abbr. in an
abbreviated list
16 Carne __: burrito
filling
17 “My bad”
18 Singer Simone19 Shoot down, in a
way
20 *Many a
smartphonedownload
23 Viola’s sect.
24 Good to go, at
NASA
25 Wields power
29 *Beef cut
33 Radiates
happiness
35 Russian denial
36 Poetic tribute37 Blades cut by a
blade
38 Spider-Man
Parker
40 Crossword
diagram
41 Part of a storm or
a needle
42 Uber alternative43 Frat party garb44 *Traction aid for
off-road vehicles
48 “New
Hampshire’sGate City”
49 Fair-hiring abbr.
50 Clean Air Act org.53 Influential groups,
and what each ofthe answers tostarred cluescontains
57 Site with “Health
A-Z” guides
60 Home Depot
purchase
61 Farm grunt62 Shake an Etch A
Sketch, e.g.
63 In the buff
64 Fried corn bread65 Woodland deity66 Fired from the job67 Hearty meal
DOWN
1 Says 17-Across,
say
2 To the left, at sea3 They’re usually
on a roll
4 “What __ is new?”
5 Graduate-to-be
6 Three sheets to
the wind
7 Cranberry quality8 Part of a window
shutter
9 Sincere
10 Words upon
making out a
distant image
11 Apply daintily12 Academic
address ending
13 __ race21 Knocks22 Gavel-pounding
demand
26 “Middlemarch”
novelist
27 1976 Olympics
star Comaneci
28 RR station
postings
30 Part of MYOB31 Up to the time
when
32 PBS “Science
Guy” Bill
33 Gather a bit at a
time
34 Clapton woman
who’s “got me on
my knees”38 Song of praise
39 Application file
suffix
40 Head in a capital:
Abbr.
42 Lightning follower
43 Row at Dodger
Stadium
45 Capriciousness
46 Solve, as a
cipher
47 Stirred up
51 Pasta often
served alla vodka52 Cockeyed
54 European
volcano that is 
a UNESCO
World Heritage
Site
55 Butter-and-flour
sauce 
thickener
56 Police
57 Director
Anderson
58 Wisk rival
59 Baseball club
By Patti Varol©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/02/1608/02/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, August 2, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
16 Health Services 18 Personals 19 Connections 23 Rides
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 16
He coached UF from 1990-2001Steve Spurrier returns to Florida 
 By Ethan Bauer
Sports Writer
Steve Spurrier was the ﬁ  rst coach to call 
Florida Field The Swamp.
“That’s for sure,” he said. 
“It really seemed to stick. It just seems like 
swamp is a fun word to say.”
And when UF plays its ﬁ  rst game at Steve 
Spurrier-Florida Field in the fall, Spurrier will be back in The Swamp working for the Gators 
again. 
The Head Ball Coach announced his return 
to his alma mater as an ambassador and con-sultant to UF’s athletic program on Friday. 
The speciﬁ  cs of his role are unclear, but 
on a teleconference on Friday, he said he looks forward to promoting UF. He also said he would be happy to help with the on-ﬁ  eld product, though he’s ﬁ  ne with staying out of the way unless he’s asked. 
Spurrier ﬁ  rst gained fame at Florida in the 
mid 1960s as a three-year starting quarterback for the Gators. He won the 1966 Heisman Tro-phy — Florida’s ﬁ  rst — over future NFL Hall 
of Famer Bob Griese, leading to the statue of 
his likeness that still stands in Florida’s Heis-
man garden. 
Spurrier returned to UF in 1990 as the head 
football coach, leading the Gators to their 
ﬁ  rst Southeastern Conference Championship 
(1991) and national championship (1996 sea-son). He also led Florida to six of its eight cur-
rent SEC titles. 
And now, he said he’s excited to be back 
again. 
“I knew that my coaching career was some-
day gonna be over, and I wanted to do some-thing,” he said. 
“I wanted to be associated with my alma 
mater, the University of Florida.”
Spurrier said he doesn’t foresee any more 
coaching in his future aside from possibly vol-unteering at a high school. In fact, he said this 
could be his last stop. 
“I certainly believe that this could be my 
last — not coaching gig — consulting gig, or 
whatever,” he said. “Who knows.”
Before deciding to come back to Florida, 
Spurrier was serving in a similar role at South Carolina, where he coached from 2005 to 2015. The sway of coming back to his alma mater, though, was too much to pass up. 
“I’m hoping most people understand,” 
he said when asked of his decision to leave South Carolina for Florida, “although it is a fair question.”
Spurrier said he and his wife, Jerri, plan on 
returning to Crescent Beach, a small commu-nity near Jacksonville. 
“Crescent beach is only about an hour and 
15 minute drive from here, so that was a pull 
in this direction also,” he said. TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
RALLY / OPINION
Staff Report
In its ﬁ  rst year under Mike 
White, the men’s basketball team 
went 21-15, falling in the quar-terﬁ  nals of both the Southeastern Conference Tournament and the 
National Invitation Tournament.
Meanwhile, Amanda Butler led 
the women’s basketball team to a 
22-9 record in her ninth year at UF but lost in the opening rounds of both the SEC and NCAA Tourna-ments.
In this week’s rally, alligatorS-
ports editors Ian Cohen and Ethan 
Bauer debate which coach had a 
better 2015-16 season.
Cohen:KeVaughn Allen stayed.That may have been the ﬁ  rst 
sign of Mike White’s success in his rookie season at UF — convincing the No. 1-rated high school player in Arkansas to remain committed to Florida, even after the departure of Billy Donovan. 
So Allen — a young, electric 
guard who could score almost on command — stayed.
Forward Dorian Finney-Smith 
returned, foregoing the NBA Draft to lead an inexperienced team in points, rebounds and into the post-season.
John Egbunu became eligible 
after enduring a sit-out year, learn-ing the in’s and out’s of the post while establishing himself as an athletic and improving rim protec-tor.
Chris Chiozza progressed as a 
decision maker, Devin Robinson developed a slightly more consis-tent jump shot and even Kasey Hill made a leap, showing matu-rity when he willingly forked over his starting spot to Chiozza in the early part of the season to help the team grow.In other words, through so 
much turnover and turmoil, as a program that was synonymous with stability was suddenly greet-ed with a summer of change, White righted the ship.
He inherited a team he didn’t 
hand-pick and was tasked with implementing a new system to ﬁ  t his personnel. 
He had to ingratiate himself 
with his entire roster, convincing them that somehow, someway, if they stayed at Florida, he could provide a substantial substitute of what they would’ve gotten under Donovan.
All in a matter of months, and 
all before the season started. 
And still, Florida won 21 
games.
You can thank Mike White.Bauer:Amanda Butler did more with 
Who  had a better year: Butler or White?
SEE RALLY,  PAGE 15UF WAS ORIGINALL Y 
SCHEDULED TO PLAY 
BELMONT. 
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Florida and Belmont might not 
open the basketball season against 
each other after all.
The Gators and Bruins origi-
nally agreed to play in Jacksonville on Nov. 11, but the matchup could be moved to Tampa to ﬁ  ll the ﬁ  nal opening in Florida’s nonconference schedule.
The Gators have agreed to play at 
Amelia Arena in Tampa on Nov. 21 but have struggled to ﬁ  nd an oppo-nent. So moving Belmont appears to be the plan. That would mean Flori-da would need to ﬁ  nd someone else to play in Jacksonville on opening night. The Gators also play Mercer on Nov. 13 in Jacksonville.
When Belmont released its non-
conference schedule last week, it noted that the date against Florida had not been ﬁ  nalized “due to ex-
tenuating circumstances.”
Florida ofﬁ  cials declined to say 
whether a schedule change was im-
minent.
“We originally agreed to the Nov. 
11 date with Belmont ofﬁ  cials, but 
they have been ﬂ  exible in working 
with us as we complete our noncon-ference schedule,” team spokesman Denver Parlor said Monday.
Florida’s nonconference schedule 
has been complex to piece together because of an ongoing $64.5 million Gators may move 
basketball opener  
SEE AP, PAGE 15
Alligator File Photo
THE HEAD BALL COACH
Former Gators coach Steve Spurrier reacts to a play during Florida's 34-
32 loss to T ennessee on Dec. 1, 2001, at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
Florida football adds recruit
Cornerback Marco Wilson announced his commitment to the Gators 
on Monday night. Wilson, a member of the class of 2017, is ranked as 
the No. 27 corner in the country by the 247Sports Composite and is the brother of current UF DB Quincy Wilson. Florida football starts fall camp this week.
T ake a look at our projected starters heading into UF's upcoming practices on pg. 16. TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016   ALLIGATOR  15
less. 
While she and White found them-
selves in similar situations at the be-
ginning of the season, coming off dis-appointing 13-17 and 16-17 records, respectively, Butler orchestrated one of the most unlikely turnarounds in recent UF athletics history. 
And she did it with most of the 
same pieces.
The only significant loss the 
Gators suffered from the previous season was Kayla Lewis, who was the team’s third-best scorer in her fi-nal campaign. 
Butler replaced Lewis with a trio 
of newcomers starting with Greek 
guard Eleanna Christinaki. 
The European import ranked sec-
ond on the team with 10.6 points per 
game and was first in assists with 102. 
Butler also brought in junior col-
lege transfers Simone Westbrook and Tyshara Fleming, who also made an immediate impact.
But perhaps the biggest impact 
was made by the team’s two new assistant coaches, Bill Ferrara and Shimmy Gray-Miller. With their hir-ings, Butler said she intended to build a new, high-energy culture around a program that has historically been one of UF’s worst. 
Their hirings accomplished that. 
The Gators bounced back to win 
nine more games and earned the No. 
4 seed in the SEC Tournament. 
Granted, they lost their first game 
in the tournament and followed it up by being ousted in the first round of the NCAA Tournament by severe un-derdog Albany. 
But take away the late-season fail-
ings and this was a team that, thanks to an improved roster and smart coaching hires, was taken from dis-appointment to serious competitor — which the men’s team wasn’t — in one offseason. And for those decisions, thank 
Amanda Butler. 
Cohen: You said it yourself — the Florida 
women’s basketball program has 
been historically one of the school’s 
worst teams.
Butler has been at Florida since the start of the 2007-08 season, when UF tied for seventh in the Southeast-ern Conference.
Since then, the Gators have never 
finished higher than fourth in the 
SEC.
That’s nine seasons of never mak-
ing it past the second round of the 
NCAA Tournament. Nine seasons without a conference title. Nine sea-sons where a run at an WNIT Cham-pionship was more than acceptable to the coaches, players and fan base.
So where was the pressure?
Look, my point isn’t that Butler is 
a bad coach. She’s a good one, and 
with the right players, Florida can ab-solutely position itself for an NCAA Tournament run next year.
But there’s a big difference be-
tween trying to lead a program that has never won a SEC regular season title and trying to lead one that has 
won seven.
That was the situation White 
found himself in, all in his first year 
as coach. Plus, he managed to come within one win of Butler’s 22 victo-ries last season.
Factoring in all the pressure 
White was under in trying to replace Donovan, it seems obvious that his 
accomplishment was the more im-
pressive feat.
Bauer: White’s 21 wins may be one away 
from Butler’s 22, but White also suf-fered six more losses. 
In addition, it sounds like you’re 
saying White's season was better be-cause of the circumstances he inher-ited. But Butler's circumstances were just as difficult. If White didn't win, it would've been chalked up to his rookie struggles. If Butler didn't, she might be unemployed. 
And look, I’m not saying White 
didn’t have a respectable first year 
at the helm of an admittedly supe-
rior program, which certainly brings certain pressures. But let’s take your example to the extreme. 
You claim it was more difficult 
for White to succeed in his first sea-son because of the lofty expectations of UF’s men’s basketball program. Meanwhile, Butler’s program has 
been fairly middle-of-the-road, not 
just during her tenure but before she arrived. And somehow, it’s easier to lead a team with low expectations to success. 
To disprove that, just ask your-
self what’s more impressive: A new coach taking the Nick Saban-less Ala-bama Crimson Tide to an appearance 
(and loss) in the 2016 SEC Champi-
onship Game or Derek Mason, in his third year at Vanderbilt, leading the Commodores to an unprecedented appearance in the same game. 
Both are impressive, but Mason is 
unquestionably the more impressive of the two. 
Just like Butler is the more im-
pressive of two good options. 
Which coach do you think had the 
more impressive season? Vote online at 
alligator.org/sports.RALLY,  from pg14Amanda Butler went 22-9 while Mike White went 21-15 last season
renovation to the O’Connell Center.
The project, which includes 
luxury boxes, chair-back seating throughout the lower bowl and up-graded amenities, is scheduled to be completed in time for fall com-mencement in early December.
The Gators play their first game 
in the revamped arena on Dec. 21 against Little Rock. Before that, they will play 10 nonconference games throughout the Sunshine State as well as a game against pe-rennial powerhouse Duke in New York City (Dec. 6).Florida begins the season with 
the two games in Jacksonville, then faces St. Bonaventure in Lakeland (Nov. 17), plays three games — in-cluding one against Seton Hall — in the Advocare Invitational in Or-lando (Nov. 24-27), plays at North Florida (Dec. 1), travels to Florida State (Dec. 11) and faces Charlotte in Sunrise (Dec. 17).
The game in Tampa remains un-
settled.
AP,  from pg14UF will play its first game in the renovated O'Dome on Dec. 21Emma Green / Alligator
Coach Mike White (right) huddles with his team during Florida's 95-63 win against Auburn on Jan. 23 in the O'Connell Center.
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Amanda Butler (right) hugs Florida's Eleanna Christinaki during UF's 85-79 win against Kentucky on Jan. 31 in the O'Connell Center.  
16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, AUGUST 2, 2016
Spurrier also commented on the cur-
rent state of Florida’s football program, 
noting how impressed he was with coach 
Jim McElwain’s ﬁ  rst year. However, he 
added that McElwain won’t be happy with a repeat performance. 
“Coach Mac, he wants more than just 
the Eastern division,” Spurrier said. 
Spurrier’s ﬁ  rst chance to get a thor-
ough look at UF’s on-ﬁ  eld product will be on Sept. 3 during the team’s season opener against Massachusetts. But Spur-
rier, the man who made The Swamp 
feared and the Gators relevant, might have a tough time concentrating on the game. 
The Gators plan to unveil Steve Spur-
rier-Florida Field at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadi-um on the same day, which is a moment he said will surpass his Heisman Trophy win and any other awards he's won. 
“That’s the nicest, the biggest, the 
most amazing honor I’ve ever received,” he said. 
“It will be a little emotional at that 
time.”
@ebaueri
ebauer@alligator.org FOOTBALL,  from pg14Gators open their season against Massachusetts on Sept. 3Florida Fall Camp Projected Starters
CB
Jalen 
TaborDE
Bryan
CoxDT
Caleb 
BrantleyDE
CeCe 
Jefferson Duke 
DawsonLB
LB
Alex 
AnzaloneLB
Jarrad
DavisCB
Quincy 
Wilson
Nick Washington 
or 
Marcell HarrisS
Marcus 
MayeSCB
Daniel 
McMillian
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
Jim McElwain watches his team run drills during Florida's Spring practice on March 9 at the Sanders Practice Fields.
QB
Luke Del RioHB
Jordan Cronkrite
WR
Ahmad 
FulwoodWR
Antonio 
CallawayTE
DeAndre 
GoolsbyC
Cameron 
DillardLT
David 
SharpeLG
Martez 
IveyRG
Tyler 
JordanFred 
JohnsonRTWR
Brandon 
PowellOFFENSE
DEFENSE