We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 155 TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
UF track and ﬁ  eld ends season 
with title
Coach Holloway will have to rebuild for next 
year, pg. 13
Hundreds gather at Orlando vigil Sunday
See more photos, pg. 3
UF Board of Trustees approve structure names
It affected the O’Dome and Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium, pg. 8Gainesville organizations host vigils
Crowds gathered at City Hall and a church, pg. 9
Gainesville organizations host vigils
 pg. 9
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
ORLANDO — UF alumni joined fellow 
Orlando residents to support thousands of 
blood donors Sunday afternoon. 
The OneBlood drive at West Michigan 
Street, located less than three miles from 
Orlando Regional Medical Center, eventu-
ally reached capacity. 
Patients are in dire need of blood after 
a gunman pledged allegiance to ISIS and 
opened ﬁ  re in the gay nightclub Pulse, re-sulting in the largest mass shooting in U.S. 
history, according to the Associate Press.Aunali Khaku, a physician who com-
pleted his residency at UF Health Shands Hospital, awoke to text messages about the 
attack and the ensuing need for blood. 
“When we woke up this morning to 
tragic news we wondered, ‘What can we do?’” he said.
Khaku joined his family and three Mus-
lim organizations to visit OneBlood, where 
they found a line that was already full.
Instead of donating, they decided to 
bring water and ice to the people in line, 
Khaku said.
“We were terriﬁ  ed of what happened 
and we were worried,” he said. “I hugged my son tighter because this was happening 
so close to home, and it was unfortunately 
done by a Muslim.”
Islam does not support terrorism, he 
said, and America’s islamophobic climate 
may result in backlash.
“We live here,” he said. “We raise our 
families here and, just like any other Amer-ican, when something like this happens 
our hearts go out to those affected by it.”
The center received an overwhelming 
amount of donations, including water, 
food and snacks, said Eric Gray, the execu-
tive director of United Against Poverty and 
a UF alumnus.The nonproﬁ  t organization is located 
across the street from OneBlood, which 
is the closest donation center to Pulse, he 
said. 
Gray said the organization experienced 
several ﬁ  rst-time volunteers, who received 
T-shirts and then organized donations.
“People came to us asking how they 
could help, so we started putting them to 
work,” he said. 
The center does not have a procedure 
to handle the inﬂ  ux of donated food and water, Gray said. His organization, how-
ever, has the space to store donations and 
redistribute them to any of the eight local 
blood centers.
“Today is very odd and out of the or- Gators team up in Orlando to support donors
ABOUT 25 PEOPLE 
SPOKE IN THE RAIN.
By Giuseppe Sabella
Alligator Staff Writer
ORLANDO — On Sunday, ev-
eryone was family.
People of diverse genders, eth-
nicities and sexual orientations 
mourned for their families, friends 
and fellow Orlando residents. 
Andrea Miranda, a 21-year-old 
UF political science senior, stood 
just feet from the yellow tape that hung between spectators and a horde of local and federal authori-ties Sunday afternoon. 
Miranda, who is living and 
working in Orlando for the sum-
mer, said her friend is a dancer at 
Pulse, where a gunman opened ﬁ  re early Sunday morning.
Her friend, Miranda said, was 
not working when the attack un-folded. 
“It was a relief to hear from 
him,” she said. “I’ve known him since high school.” 
Her sister, 16-year-old Valeria 
Miranda, stood under buzzing he-licopters and held a sign that read “#OrlandoStrong.” 
“People were there to have 
a good time,” she said. “They weren’t there to do anything wrong, and they got punished for it.”About two miles away, a crowd 
gathered at Lake Eola Park to light tealight candles on the water’s edge. Three ﬂ  ags ﬂ  ew at half-mast 
under the gray sky. 
Mitch Foster, the event’s orga-
nizer, said authorities, who feared 
the possibility of another attack, advised him not to hold the vigil.
Despite the warning, about 200 
people gathered to share stories and offer support.
“I know a lot of you have lost 
a lot of people, and we’re scared, and we’re unsure and we don’t feel safe, but we’ll make it be-cause no one can take our home from us,” Foster said. 
Carlos Perez opened the vigil 
with 30 seconds of silence, broken only by the occasional squawking of a goose or the crying of a crowd 
member. 
Perez said the gunman shot his 
friend, who was in stable condi-
tion by 4 p.m. 
“I don’t want this to be the end 
of anything, but the beginning of us staying together as a commu-nity and helping one another,” he said. 
During more than an hour of 
speeches, Savannah Perry stood amid a semicircle of people and fought tears to deliver a message: Be kind every day.
At ﬁ  rst, Perry said, it was hard  Orlando community 
bonds amid tragedy
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
The organizer of a vigil for the victims of the Orlando nightclub shooting, 
Mitch Foster, 30, embraces Carlos Perez, 26, at Lake Eola Park on Sunday. “I needed to be surrounded by people who I knew were hurting as well, and that cared and that needed help, because I needed help, ” Perez said.
SEE BLOOD,  PAGE 4
SEE VIGIL,  PAGE 4Alumni raised about $700 for food, water 
A 
HELPING 
HUGSubscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  94° LOW  75°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Library West to become 24/7 li-
brary in the Fall semester
Beginning this Fall, overnight li-brary hours will return to Library West for Fall and Spring semes-
ters. Based on student survey 
results, Student Government will fund and expand Library West’s hours to 24/7 to meet student preferences. The extended hours will ensure there is a dedicated study space on campus with con-tinuous operating hours. Printers, course reserves, group study 
rooms and other resources, along with Starbucks, will also be avail-
able the same hours the library is open. Library West features seating for approximately 1400, 16 group study rooms, dedicated 
graduate student study space on 
the sixth floor, printers and 200 computers on floors one through three.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to aalbright@alligator.org. To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our 
newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Mia Gettenberg, 
mgettenberg@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Alligator Staff, metro@alligator.org
University Editor  Alligator Staff, university@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  David Hoffman, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Alligator Staff, sports@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Mia Gettenberg, 
  David Hoffman, Giuseppe Sabella  
Photo Editor Emma Green, egreen@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  Mason Branscome,  Zj Guinto, 
  Kaelah Scheff     
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Caroline Rhoades
 Sales Representatives Joseph Fitzgerald, Britney Jenkins, 
  Jessica Lennon, Caroline Rhoades, 
  Mathews Silva, Donovan Vazquez,   
  Natalie Weymouth  
 Advertising Clerks  Caroline Rhoades
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Evin Ershock
Editorial Production Staff  Lauren Johnson, Vanessa PuelloVOLUME 110 ISSUE 155
TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3 
Sarah Schumaker, 23, leads a group of mourning Orlando residents and visitors in lighting candles at 
the Lake Eola Park vigil on Sunday.
Finding Solace in Solidarity
Photos by Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Dani Hereboso, 29, holds a paper sign to show her support for vic-tims of the Orlando shooting at the gay nightclub Pulse. Hereboso said she was able to hear the gunshots from home, and that her heart sank when she learned about the attack.4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
Attention Alligator
Advertisers!
The Alligator will not 
be publishing from
Monday, June 20th
through Friday, June 24th
The Deadline for 
Tuesday, June 28th is
Friday, June 17th by 4:00 pm
for both Display & Classiﬁed Advertising
As always, we appreciate your
patronage and will resume
publication again on
Tuesday, June 28th
DISPLAY 376.4482
CLASSIFIED 373.3463
dinary,” Gray said. “We just happened to be 
across the street.”
Gray said he became familiar with the non-
proﬁ  t industry as a UF student in the ’90s, es-
pecially when he took part in the ﬁ  rst Dance 
Marathon in 1995. Gray said he then became 
the fundraiser’s main chairman in 1997.
“I found that I was working 80 hours a 
week with Dance Marathon and not breaking 
a sweat,” he said. “When you ﬁ  nd something you love doing, you just stick with it.”
Susan Forbes, the vice president of market-
ing and communications for OneBlood, said 
most local blood centers remained at or over 
capacity throughout the day.
“They (donors) have been unbelievably pa-
tient,” she said.
The center, Forbes said, planned to stay 
open until all donors ﬁ  nished giving blood, and it encouraged others to make appointments in 
the upcoming days and weeks.
UF alumnus Brandon Corsentino collaborat-
ed with other UF alumni on Facebook to raise 
more than $700, which he used to buy Dom-
ino’s Pizza and other snacks for the donors.  
“It’s eye opening to what a community can 
do,” he said. “It would be great if we could 
somehow learn that it doesn’t take an event like this to prove that the good in the world is 
out there.”
The volunteers, Corsentino said, ranged 
from business professionals to high school students and young children, all of who spent 
their Sunday helping others.
“Despite the occurrences, everybody was 
there for the right reasons,” he said. “It was 
great to see a community come together.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org  BLOOD,  from pg 1Blood centers 
were quickly 
overwhelmed
to imagine someone would kill so many 
people. She then learned the attacker took her best friend’s life.
Perry said her friend was a sweet, kind-
hearted man, and that he would want the 
community to ﬁ  nd strength in the pain. 
“Please don’t hold anger in your heart,” 
she said. “It’s a very, very bad thing what 
happened . . . but we need to take it in stride. We are a community of love; we are a community that is growing together and is being formed from this.” 
Gray Caylor told the crowd they moved 
to Orlando in October and found a commu-
nity that helped them become more open 
about their identity. 
“It hurts, you know, more than anything to see this evil and this wickedness done to the community that has made me feel comfortable in my skin for the ﬁ  rst time,” they said.  
Caylor said the pain they felt Sunday 
morning gradually turned into a familiar feeling of strength and acceptance that they came to know during their short time in the city. 
Such strength is found in all people, said 
Claudia Bucaro, a resident of Orlando for 10 years.
Children, Bucaro said, always have a fa-
vorite superhero, and, as people grow old-er, they realize it’s not possible to ﬂ  y like Superman or crush villains like the Hulk. 
Bucaro said she imagined herself as 
a superhero when the attack unfolded. Though it’s too late to save the dead, the community can harness its strength in the aftermath, she said.  
“You were created to be the hero,” she 
said. “You have the ability to save the city, and I think, like everybody has shared to-
day, it’s going to be by loving the person 
that is next to you. If you can change one life, you’re changing the world.” 
Tacloey Jackson joined two friends, 
Akeem Collins and Shatera Woodward, to attend the vigil and throw 50 roses in the water — one for each person who died at the club. 
“We don’t want to be remembered for 
the attacks,” Jackson said. “We only want to be remembered for how we came togeth-er as a community.” 
@gsabella
gsabella@alligator.org
VIGIL,  from pg 1Attendees focused on strength, forgiveness   
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff 
Maria Matigas, a 20-year-old Orlando resident for three years, gives a speech at Lake Eola Park in Orlando following 
the Pulse shooting on Sunday. “I wasn’t raised in Orlando, but I’ve called Orlando my home for the last three years, and, to me, home means family, and family means taking care of one another, loving one another, ” Matigas said. “So, to me, each and every one of you is family. ”TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
CAMPUS
By Jessica Gonzalez
Alligator Contributing Writer
At this year’s UF International 
Piano Festival, ﬁ  nalists for the pre-
college solo piano competition in-clude one pianist from China and two pianists from the U.S.
The ﬁ  nalists will perform Sat-
urday morning in front of faculty judges and the public. The ﬁ  rst-prize winner will receive $500, and the other two ﬁ  nalists will receive $250 each as honorable mentions, accord-ing to the UF School of Music’s web-site. 
Rok Palcic, a visiting assistant 
professor at UF and the associ-ate director of the festival, said the screening committee reviewed the 
participants’ applications, which in-
cluded recordings. The ﬁ  nalists were 
selected by May 1. 
Since its ﬁ  rst run in 2007, Palcic 
said the festival has been tweaked 
slightly but remains the same, with 
the exception of this year’s guest fac-
ulty members from China, Slovakia and the U.S.“The festival has achieved what 
we have set out to do,” he said. 
The weeklong festival features 
25 college and pre-college students from Canada, China, Croatia, Russia, 
South Korea and the U.S.
Palcic said UF graduate students 
will serve as counselors, but there 
are no UF student or alumni partici-
pants this year. 
Each participant admitted into 
the artist division of the festival will perform in two recitals, which be-
gan this past Saturday and will run 
through this Saturday. There will be 
no events today, according to the website. 
Every performance will be evalu-
ated, and the six outstanding pia-
nists, determined by faculty vote, 
will play at the honors recital at the close of the festival Saturday after-noon, Palcic said. 
The events are held at the Mu-
sic Building, Room 101, except for two recitals. One was held Monday afternoon at the South Tower of the UF Health Shands Hospital, and the 
other will be held in the North Tower on Friday afternoon, according to the 
website.
Faculty members will teach ﬁ  ve 
master classes, which serve as public lessons for the festival’s participants.
Daniel Shapiro, a professor of 
piano at the Cleveland Institute of Music and a guest faculty member 
for the festival, instructed a master 
class Sunday afternoon. 
“Very often, when students play 
in a master class, they are a little intimidated because there’s this, 
you know, big bad teacher up there 
who’s allegedly an expert or famous 
or whatever, and they’re just a stu-dent wondering what the teacher is going to say,” he said.  
Unlike the recitals, Shapiro said 
master classes are strictly geared to-ward giving students advice on their performances. 
Shapiro said master classes keep 
the audience in mind, and the feed-
back should be interesting to the au-
dience and the performer. 
“It’s an art in itself,” Shapiro said.All events are free and open to 
the public.  Piano festival features international musicians, classes
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Performers Bomin Park, Mayan Essak, Zhao Yuhang, Anna Gilliland and Christina Lai (left to right) rise to bow for the audience at the ﬁ  rst piano recital held for the International Piano Festival on Sat-urday. The event brings together outstanding pianists from around the world for daily master classes and evening recitals with guest artists from North America and China.
By Ryan Serpico
Alligator Contributing Writer
The name “slow food” move-
ment might suggest a campaign to eat slow animals or cook food slowly, but its goals are quite different, as Jeff Honeycutt, an executive chef, explained at the Alachua County Headquarters Li-brary this past weekend. 
Honeycutt, a graduate of Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts in Orlando, presented infor-mation on North Central Florida’s slow food scene Sunday.
Slow foods are locally grown, 
in-season foods that are environ-mentally sustainable, as opposed to processed foods, he said.
“The idea is to let things grow 
the way they’re supposed to grow within their season,” Honeycutt said. Honeycutt said he discovered 
slow foods in 2003 while work-ing at the restaurant Chew, where farmers came in with fresh ingre-dients.
He said he thought it was the 
coolest thing in the world.
“I was in it for the long-haul 
then,” he said. 
Fiona Lama, an Alachua Coun-
ty Headquarters library specialist and a professor at Santa Fe Col-lege, said she was unaware of the slow food movement until she had Honeycutt as a student last year. 
Lama said she is more interest-
ed in buying slow foods after at-tending Honeycutt’s presentation. 
“It makes you feel like it’s a 
good idea to be more health-con-scious with your food choices,” the 52-year-old said. 
Honeycutt said college stu-dents interested in getting in-volved with the movement should learn how to cook, and by using basic, natural ingredients, slow foods cost less than processed foods. 
“I did not come out of the 
womb knowing how to do that,” he said. 
Honeycutt currently studies at 
Santa Fe and plans to attend UF to complete a degree in geomatics. 
 Executive chef speaks on importance of local, fresh foodsThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnHow long will 
this go on?
Twenty ﬁ  rst-graders attending school in Newtown, Con-
necticut. Then, it was a family and pedestrians in Santa Monica, California. Twelve more at a Washington, Dis-trict of Columbia, naval yard. Three at Fort Hood, Texas. A long-planned mass-murder at Isla Vista, California.
Then, it was churchgoers in Charleston, South Carolina. Ma-
rines and a navy ofﬁ  cer in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Innocent college students in Roseburg, Oregon. It was three at a clinic in Colorado. Fourteen in San Bernardino, California. All this just in the past three-and-a-half years. And now: Pulse. 
Many of us Gators are from Orlando or have a few friends 
from the area. A likely few of you even know an individual, or the family of an individual, murdered or injured Saturday night. We are so, so sorry. We want to tell you this is the end of sense-less  — we really do. But it isn’t.  
It would be disingenuous to say another Pulse won’t hap-
pen again. It will. It already did. Sunday morning, in Roswell, New Mexico, authorities said a father shot and killed his four children and their mother.
Before a time when our political atmosphere reinvigorated 
its patriotism and manufactured a newfound national allegiance to a vague sense of freedom symbolized by the ﬁ  rearm, by de-fending the homefront against a non-existent tyranny and rou-tine threat to family safety — before this fabricated conversation we’ve lost ourselves in, there were cars.
Automotive deaths were the gun deaths of the last century. 
In 1924, auto accidents killed 23,600 people and injured more than 700,000. But we matured. We constructed crosswalks, im-plemented speed limits, designed seat belts and airbags. There wasn’t any taking away of everyone’s cars; we simply did what we had to do to ensure the majority’s safety amidst widespread violence. Unfortunately, not before long, the media will move on from Orlando. We’ve seen this before. 
Countless politicians and commentators, including the 
“good-incremental-change” likely Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, lambasted the attack as “radical Islamism.” Likewise, you can blame the National Riﬂ  e Association, but it’s also our Congress that refuses to stand up to this group and accepts their donor money and lets NRA lobbyists host election campaign fundraisers.
After all these years, with all of the needlessly dead, nobody 
is blameless. Even if the Islamic State is responsible for inspir-ing Omar Mateen, he was born and raised here, he bought an assault riﬂ  e by our law and he committed an American-style do-mestic terrorist attack: a mass shooting. Mateen, his attack and the catalog of domestic mass shootings are our responsibility.
Past the point of our leadership taking action, we are left 
to care for one another. And in many beautiful, indescribable and heartfelt ways, we are: from the long lines of people ready to donate blood to those injured in the attack; to our very own Tyler Richards, a 19-year-old UF industrial systems and engi-neering major who orchestrated a pizza-donating campaign through Venmo for blood donors; to the countless vigils across the country; and to the venues like Tampa’s Sacred Grounds Coffee House that raise funds to support the families of victims. 
These attacks will continue to happen. The best we can do 
is embody the heroism of so many ordinary people doing the extraordinary, and in so doing, making the extraordinary ordi-nary. This is how we overcome.
No one is above the law, except Brock Turner 
Wow, has it really been a week since our last talk? I feel like so much has happened! I don’t know if 650 words are going to be enough to express my discontent with three latest controver-
sies: the gorilla, the rapist and the two hair-dyed blondes that could possibly be president.
I’ll be completely honest, dear readers. I don’t 
want to write about any of those topics. But alas, I’ve fallen a bit short of my journalistic expecta-tions. Two weeks ago I covered body shaming, and last week I discussed children’s art — both topics in-spired by weeklong benders and, frankly, just too much free time. Although they were necessary topics of discussion (okay, so only one of them was), I feel like I didn’t really in-spire any of my peers, which is the sole reason I took up this job in the ﬁ  rst place. Blame my editor for giving me the artis-tic liberty to cover topics I want. At least, that’s what I do…
Since I write for a college paper, I feel compelled to write 
on Brock Turner. I’ll let the three of you who aren’t familiar with that name perform a Google search.
Great. Welcome back to our regularly scheduled program-
ming.
You might have noticed in all the Google fodder the dis-
gust at Turner’s morally reprehensible actions. Every sexual assault case is horrifying and sad. The details of this case are what made it spark the media attention unseen in the thousands of sexual assault trials that go on in this country. I’m not just talking about the story itself, nor am I talking about his father’s vomit-inducing defense (the “my-son-lost-his-appetite-for-steak-since-this-trial-began” defense is a bold legal strategy). I’m talking about the sentencing.
Turner was found guilty on three felony counts. Ultimate-
ly, he was condemned to serve six months in a local jail, not a state prison, with the potential of reducing that time to three months if we factor in good behavior.
Some of you may be familiar with the Cory Batey trial that was held earlier this year. Batey was a Vanderbilt University football player and was convicted of, you guessed it, three felony counts, ranging from sexual battery to aggravated rape. The sentencing? Fifteen to 25 years in prison. Batey is also black.
When Batey gets out of prison he will have had 
his youth taken away from him. He will be de-servedly jaded from his time spent correctly held away from society. When Turner, a white Stan-ford University student, is released from jail, the new “Baywatch” movie will be out. Given that he 
was on the swim team, I’m sure he and all his teammates are really looking forward to seeing it.
This clear act of judicial mishandling is unacceptable and, 
more frightening, reﬂ  ective of America in the 21st century. Our depiction of Lady Justice is a woman whose eyes are covered by a blindfold, wielding a balance scale and a sword. This is supposed to depict the notion that justice is blind, fair and swiftly punishing. However, in our country this day and age, Lady Justice is as racially blind as your grandfather on Thanksgiving, about as just as the NBA toward Golden State this playoff cycle (#DraymondGreenForKickballMVP) and as swiftly punishing as a parent who studied philosophy in col-lege.
Judge Aaron Persky, who sentenced Turner, said, “a 
prison sentence would have a severe impact on (Turner).” Your Honor, excuse me, but that’s the fucking point. Judge Persky’s bias in this trial, as much of a mishap as it was, is in-dicative of a larger problem in our justice system, a problem that’s on the cusp of absurdity: racial partiality in sentencing. The Turner case does not anger us because of his sentence (entirely). It angers us because we have to pathetically ad-mit we treat people differently and lend sympathy to even the worst of people by the foolish virtue of skin tone in this country.
Zachary Lee is a UF philosophy senior. His column ap-
pears on Tuesdays.
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Giuseppe Sabella
EDITORMia Gettenberg
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSDavid Hoffman
OPINIONS EDITOR
Zachary Lee
opinions@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
Sunday morning Orlando 
became the center of an-other massive shooting, something that seems to have become an occupa-
tional hazard of American life. While the details are still coming in about the deaths and injuries, and the whole story is not yet clear, a couple things are.
It is clear this was an act of ha-
tred and terrorism that speciﬁ  cally targeted a gay bar, and it was carried out with weap-
ons that were bought legally.
While Donald Trump is shouting in the 
Twitter-sphere with the, “I told you so,” 
rhetoric of another terrorist attack being 
eminent, other politicians have been call-
ing for measures to actually prevent attacks 
like this from happening for years, such as an update to the background check system.
Why is it impossible for there to be bi-
partisan push for legislation that deals with 
this issue? It would not even remotely affect 
the millions of law abiding gun owners in America who have nothing to do with ter-rorism. In fact, it would make it more dif-
ﬁ  cult for terrorists to buy guns.
Instead, the news cycle is beginning to 
overﬂ  ow with the worn out phrase, “Now 
is not the time to talk about gun control.” Well, then when will it be? These same 
politicians and pundits that call for a robust 
discussion on terrorism and how to defeat 
it do not want to acknowledge the ﬂ  awed background check system. National Riﬂ  e Association sponsored stalls on gun reform are the reason why Omar Marteen was able to purchase high powered assault riﬂ  es without so much as a second glance from the background check system, despite his multiple interviews by the FBI and links to known terrorists.
Unfortunately, the country is in a place 
right now where gun reform is a toxic sub-ject for many who have the power and pos-sibility to change it. The NRA is one of the most powerful lobby groups in the country and is able to continue to do so through the exploitation of people’s fear of gun reform. It is commonplace for NRA Executive Vice Presi-dent Wayne LaPierre to claim President Barack Obama is com-ing any day now to take away everyone’s guns, despite the fact 
he has half a dozen months left, and he has said on multiple occasions he does not 
want to conﬁ  scate guns from law-abiding 
Americans.
The battle for gun control was lost after 
the Sandy Hook shooting, when it was not 
possible for Congress to come together after 
a massacre of children to pass some basic 
measures to prevent something like it from happening again. Even the Democratic Par-ty was not able to coalesce around provi-
sions, and they killed the bill themselves.
Future promises of gun reform, even af-
ter the Orlando shooting, are distant at best 
with a Republican Congress and the real possibility of Trump in ofﬁ  ce.
But if we don’t talk about it now, then 
when will we? We may come back to this topic the next time a massive shooting hap-pens, or will we have to wait for the next time “the worst shooting in American his-
tory” happens again to even get to this level 
of discussion?
Not talking about the part easily acces-
sible guns and ﬂ  awed background checks 
played into the Orlando shooting is the same as ignoring the inﬂ  uence that terror-ism and homophobia had in the attack. In-action and silence not only do a disservice to those who lost their lives, but also result in our collective responsibility the next time lives are lost when we as a society had the possibility to prevent it.
Kevin Foster is a UF political science 
senior. His column appears on Tuesdays.Gun reform still largely out of reachColumn
Let’s be honest, getting of-
fers for free or discounted things online or in the mail can be pretty exciting. As you move forward in your 
ﬁ  nancial life, you will start to get more and more offers for things like new cars, insurance options and instant approval credit card offers. Most of these offers are easy to disregard, as they include major ﬁ  nancial decisions you have to make when the time is right for you.
However, instant approval credit card 
offers are something a lot of people, es-pecially students, fall for without looking into the ﬁ  nancial impact they can have. Instant approval credit card offers can include things like zero percent interest, balance transfers of current credit card balances and bonus rewards just for sign-ing up and meeting a minimum spending 
requirement. While some credit cards and 
the offers they have available can be a good thing, make sure to do your research before signing up.
Instant approval does not mean instant 
approval:
When you receive an instant approval 
credit card offer, that doesn’t mean you are guaranteed to be approved for the 
credit card offer being made available. 
Credit card companies use this strategy to get their foot in the door in the hopes they can get your business. While instant ap-proval credit card offers are usually made based on a brief look at your credit proﬁ  le, you may be rejected once a closer look is taken at your credit history.
Just the process of applying for a credit 
card, which includes a hard check on your credit, can have a negative effect on your credit score. So you want to make sure you will be approved when you apply. Other-wise, you will be hurting yourself in the future when you decide to apply again. If you ﬁ  nd that you are rejected for the offer, you will most likely be offered additional products that come with less credit score requirements. This is where you should take a timeout, and then take a closer look at what you are applying for, and decide if it is the right ﬁ  nancial decision for 
you at that time. 
Take a close look at what is 
being offered:
Instant approval credit card 
offers are ways for credit card 
companies to make you aware 
of what they are offering. This could be in the form of zero percent interest for a given amount of time, opportunities to 
transfer over your existing credit card bal-
ance at a lower interest rate and credit card sign-up bonuses for meeting an ini-tial spending amount. All of these offers come with a time frame. Zero percent in-terest offers won’t last forever. Credit card companies make these offers available in the hopes you will rack up a balance dur-ing the zero percent interest period and 
then have to pay interest on it once that 
offer expires. The same is true in that they hope you won’t pay off the credit card balance that you transfer over during the intro period and then start paying interest again on the balance you still have.
Wait for the right offer for you:Credit cards can be easy to apply for 
and to use for spending. You want to 
make sure you use them responsibly and 
get the most out of them, as they can max-imize the money you do spend. Instant approval credit card offers will always be made available to people who credit card companies think they can earn business from. Make sure you make the decision on which credit card is right for you when you are ready. Also make sure you do your 
homework and utilize programs, such as 
the free to use Casavvy.com’s Card Match program, to see all current offers that are being made available to you, and make an instant approval decision for yourself when you are ready.
Matthew Coan is the owner of Gaines-
ville-based personal ﬁ  nance website casavvy.com.
Be wary of instant approval credit  Guest column
Kevin Foster
opinions@alligator.orgMatthew Coan
Speaking Out8   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
CAMPUS
By Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
On Thursday, the UF Board of 
Trustees approved a change to the 
name of two campus landmarks.
The Stephen C. O’Connell Cen-
ter arena will now be known as Ex-actech Arena, and Florida Field will be known as the Steve Spurrier-Flor-ida Field at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
The arena’s name resulted from 
a sponsorship with local orthopedic device company Exactech, said Pris-cilla Bennett, the director of com-munications and marketing for the 
company.
Exactech will pay UF about $6 
million over 10 years, with an option 
to extend the use of its name for an additional five after that. 
“It really feels like a marriage be-
tween these two organizations,” she 
said.
Bennett said former UF faculty 
members Dr. Bill Petty and Dr. Gary Miller founded the company in 1985, 
and that more awareness of the com-pany will hopefully bring attention 
to health education.
As for the stadium, the university 
has worked since last Fall — when 
Steve Spurrier retired — to add his name to the field, said Dan Apple, 
the assistant football director. 
“He turned our whole program 
around,” he said. 
During Spurrier’s career, the 
Gators won their first national cham-pionship and six Southeastern Con-
ference titles, said Steve Orlando, a spokesman for UF. Spurrier was also 
the university’s first Heisman Tro-
phy winner.
According to a press release, 
Spurrier said he knew about the change since Fall, but still felt greatly 
honored for the special recognition.
@jawosmond
josmond@alligator.orgUF designates new names for old structures EXACTECH FACTS:
• Has locations in 35 
countries
• Employs 500 people 
in Gainesville and 200 elsewhere
 
SPURRIER FACTS:
• Spurrier won at least 
nine games in all 12 of his seasons at Florida
• He coached in back-to-back National Championship games 
(1995 and 1996 seasons)TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
HELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales InternSales Representative
Resume builder
Personalized classroom trainingFirst-hand sales experienceImprove communication skillsMinimum 10-hour work week
Email resume for internship to Ms. Jordan Thurn atGain sales experience
Learn prospecting skillsImprove communication skillsFlexible scheduleNo weekends
Email resume for sales rep position to Shaun O’Connor at
intern@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Summer 2016
soconnor@alligator.org
*Must be enrolled in summer 
classes at UF or Santa Fe to apply
 Isabel Bonnet / Alligator
TOP LEFT:
A crowd gathers to pray before a candlelight vigil for the victims 
of the Orlando shooting. The Pride Community Center of North Central Florida, the United Church of Gainesville, Equality Florida, the Human Rights Council of North Central Florida and Stonewall Democrats of Alachua County hosted the vigil. 
TOP RIGHT:
At another vigil on Monday evening, Steven Shontz, a 28-year-old University of South Florida alumnus, stands outside the United Church of Gainesville and listens to a prayer in honor of the Orlando shooting victims. 
LEFT:  
About 130 people march by the United Church of Gainesville on Monday evening. UF’s Pride Student Union and Islam On Campus organized the march in honor of those who lost their lives during the shooting early on Sunday morning at the Or-lando nightclub Pulse. 
Gainesville community unites in wake of tragedyBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDTUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-25-1
Furnished 4 bedroom, 4 baths, living room, kitchen, washer & dryer 1 mile from UF on bus line 1 yr lease starting 8/15, $375/mo all inclusive 352 586 6468.    6-30-16-30-1
$325 1 bed in 2/1 with female student. Includes small privacy fenced back yard to room, sliding glass doors, washer/dryer, dish washer, high-speed internet and split electric 352 631 0737     6-30-11-1
4BR/2BA University Commons.Available 8/1/16. $1300. 
Call / text 239-370-8735    7-28-16-17-1
2BRs in 4BR/4BA furn apt. available 7//16 & 8/15/16 Countryside $325/mo/rm. Hi-speed internet incl in rent. Util pkg offered. Ind leases. Bus rts 9, 35, 36. Male students preferred. Call/text Jigisha 813-731-7747/email jigishanyc@yahoo.com   6-30-16-4-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       8-15-16-25-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Several cute & clean vintage apartments for August, in quiet NW area near UF/Downtown.From $595/month. Call/Text Anita: 352-575-4395 or Anita@cozygator.com; Web: www.CozyGator.com    3-29-16-5-2
Walk 1-3 blks from UF.
Avail in Aug:
2bd/2.5 bth $1100.00; 2bd/1bth $1000.00, 
1bd/1bth $650.00-$635.00, studio $500.00.
Call/Text 352-870-7256
gvll32601@gmail.com
8-26-16-30-2
4 BLOCKS EAST OF UF,2BR/2BA APARTMENTS, W/D INCLUDED,FURNITURE AND ELECTRIC PACKAGESAVAILABLE. MITCHELL REALTY SERVICES, INC. 352-374-8579    8-15-16-25-2
6BR 3BA Compound - 2 Houses, huge fenced yard, hot tub, huge warehouse, Walk/Bike to UF and downtown! Pets OK! $3300. 612-229-4138    6-16-16-10-2
Beautiful Apt. Ready for Lease Hurry....  1201 NW 4th St. 2BR 1.5BA 1,000 sq.ft. Wood flrs, all appliances, small patio/back yard. 2 park spots Close to UF, Main St., 13th St & Shops call or text 352-494-1800        6-30-16-6-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!Housemate wanted to share a lovely pool home in a beautiful safe area. You'd have 2BRs & pvt BA. Female preferred but not nec-essary. Call 352-214-6512 afternoons for more details.    6-30-6-4
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35518-15-25-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to 
place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 3141 NW 13th Street
8-15-16-24-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03708-15-16-25-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     8-15-25-10
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
LP VINYL BLOWOUT SALE!
400+ records $2-$5 (or 10/$18): blues/ 50s r+r / country/1960-80 artist/ jazz/big band (+ 45s/78s). Waldo Antique Village, 17805 U.S. 301 (352.468.3111). BOOTH MJC. Show ad=10% off $20+ other MJC items (except "firm").    7-5-8-10Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, 
scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND 
to get your classified in.
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
8-15-16-25-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
8-15-16-25-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
WHITE PEACE SPORT 2015
With storage, 346 miles. Asking $1000 OBO Call 409-988-1505    7-5-16-5-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-16-25-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished4 Roommates 7 Computers 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any cor -
rections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRST 
DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one day. No 
refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the 
first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedTUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring your W2 and
drive home today!!
NO credit check!!
352-375-9090                     8-15-25-12
Sunrise Auto Rental
Easy to Rent!!!
NO credit card required!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   8-15-25-12
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!
NO credit check!!
Bring your W2 and drive home today!
352-338-1999                 8-15-25-12
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
95 Plymouth Voyager $99999 Ford Mustang $99900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Lincoln LS $199901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338-1999                      8-15-25-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338-1999                       8-15-25-12This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80908-15-25-13
Plannig to liquidatestereos, TV's, instruments and tools?See Rich at Best.He'll give cash for your jewels.Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 2016   8-15-25-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Daytime Production Staff Wanted
Designers and advertising students:
The Alligator needs part time day shift
members for the print production
department. Must have experience with 
Adobe Creative Suite for consideration. 
Duties include the design and layout of
print and online ads in collaboration with 
student sales staff and by the direction of 
Alligator Administrative staff.
Must be willing to start now and continue 
work through the summer semester.
This is a paid position.
Send resume, vitae and/or portfolio to
astolzenberg@alligator.org 
to schedule an interview.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   8-15-16-25-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
When the heat is onand it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed.523 NW 3rd Ave.    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-14
Seeking Account Managers for logistics company in Tampa. Recent grads in all ma-jors welcome. Full time, competitive salary, full benefits pkg, 401(k). Email resume to careere.rts@reedtms.com   8-15-16-19-14
12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
FT Receptionist (on-the-job training avail.) 
Exceptional social & verbal communication skills. Polite & professional. Dependable, good work ethic, reliable transportation. Work Monday thru Friday. Great benefits. melissastandridge@gmail.com6-16-16-8-14
Full time -plus over the summer
WordPress Website Developer 
Expertise in web development
and interface design
Strong knowledge in WordPress
Proficiency with responsive web design
SEO proficiency with friendly techniques
Ability to write website documentation
Experience with e-commerce
Active social media user
Experience with Adobe Creative Suite
Please forward your resume to
hr@gleim.com
6-28-16-6-14
Small company seeking an individual for data entry position who has a strong work-ing knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, can manage general phone inquiries, and is able to work in a high-speed, multi-task environ -
ment. Experienced in working with databas -
es, and able to work well in a fast-paced en-vironment, be a team player, take direction, and have a keen ability to prioritize. This is a small office so team-work is also essential. Candidates should be personable and have a sense of humor. $9/hr. Email resume to: Staff@thekochfoundation.org      6-14-16-4-14
Motorcycle Parts Personneeded Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9am-5pm and Sunday 11am-5pm. Must be a team player and have motorcycle endorse -
ment. We will train the right person but parts knowledge is a plus. Please email resume' to todd@gainesvilleharley.com    6-28-16-5-14
FT/PT Customer Service Representatives needed. Must be 18+, and have a computer with internet service and a landline tele-phone. Guaranteed at least 15 hrs/wk. Call 1(8444) 539-8735.    6-30-16-6-14
Seeking Outdoor & Sports Enthusiasts Sales Team Members!FT & PT Sales Positions available. Only serious applicants apply in person to Lloyd Clarke Sports 1504 NW 13 St (1 m N of UF)   6-16-16-2-14.
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com      7-5-16-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.comPrivate Experienced Affordable  8-15-16-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   8-15-16-25-15When you're stuck out in Ozand you need cash to get home,click your heels three timesand think of Best Jewelry and Loan.523 NW 3rd Ave    352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
When cash is lowand the bills seem out of reach,Best Jewelry and Loanis the surfer's "Pawn Beach".523 NW 3rd Ave.   352-371-4367    8-15-25-18
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,Best Jewelry and Loan isthe needy Gator's hope!Richardspawnshop.com   Trump 20168-15-25-19
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"when the tide seems too high.We're your summer cash friendsso your blues will be all sky!Richardspawnshop.com    Trump 20168-15-25-19
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
22 Tickets
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Newly Engaged? Pro photo session at Lake 
Alice, Baughman Center, Tower, Stadium, you pick. $125 for two hours. Best quality, guaranteed. Use coupon #UF16 for 10% off. Call (352)672-1238.    9-15-74-15
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.Richardspawnshop.com     Trump 2016   8-15-25-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ACROSS
1 Drink-cooling
shapes
6 Family girl
9 Neighborhood
13 Seize14 So very uncool15 Mascara target16 *Where hockey
transgressorscool their heels
18 Issue a ticket to
19 Shout of
discovery
20 Draft
classification
21 *Future
attorney’s hurdle
25 Where sleeping
dogs lie
27 “Give me a
break!”
28 Decide one will
29 Sound confirming
a locked car door
30 Oil-bearing rocks
33 Jimmy Fallon
asset
36 Go wrong37 June 14th
observance ...
and a hint to thefirst word in theanswers tostarred clues
38 Sudoku section39 Camping gear
brand
40 Winner’s wreath41 Voice quality
42 Film snippets
44 TV’s “Kate & __”
45 “The ability to
fully experience
life,” per Thoreau
47 *Polite applause
on the tee
50 “Money __
object”
51 Sandy or
Roberto ofbaseball
53 Catch sight of54 *Vessel for
Captain JackSparrow
59 Fired, with “off”60 Look carefully61 Gravel unit62 Colors, as hair63 NFL gains64 Cackling
scavengerDOWN
1 Many a sports
trophy
2 Function3 Hot dog holder
4 Notable time
5 Organ associated
with ill temper
6 “Light” sci-fi
weapon
7 “Don’t worry
about me”
8 Physical
attractiveness
9 “Little Women”
novelist
10 *Colorful sushi
creation
11 Perfumer Lauder12 Down the road
14 Harp
constellation
17 Shower stall
alternative, if it fits
21 Unloaded?
22 “At last!”23 *“Drove my
Chevy to thelevee” DonMcLean hit
24 Water source26 Online crafts
shop
28 Shoppe adjective30 Silly to the extreme
31 Fräulein’s abode
32 Farm sci.34 Ancient Greek
region
35 Follower on
Twitter, informally
37 Fly like a moth41 Affectionate
attention, briefly
43 London
insurance giant
44 From scratch45 Exercise, as
power
46 Thoreau work47 Second family of
the 1990s
48 “Rubáiyát” poet
49 Zero deg. at the
equator, say
52 Told tall tales
55 Oinker’s pen56 Clod chopper
57 Ramada __
58 Green soup base
By Agnes Davidson and C.C. Burnikel©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/14/1606/14/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Tuesday, June 14, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 18 Personals 21 Entertainment 24 Pets
Headline
Story description Pg#Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsTUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
A.J. Puk and seven other UF baseball players were selected in the MLB Draft.Read the story on pg. 16Florida vs. Florida State (late)
For full coverage of Game 3 of Florida baseball's NCAA Super Regional game 
against Florida State  on Monday night, visit alligator.org/sports.TRACK AND FIELD
By Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
 
Florida coach Mike Holloway 
doesn’t coach for participation 
ribbons. 
He coaches to win national ti-
tles,  something he has achieved 
six times at UF.
So when his men’s track and 
field team, filled with senior leadership and talent, finished in seventh place at the NCAA Indoor Championship on March 
12, Holloway was embarrassed. 
He knew his team was capa-
ble more, so he shouldered the 
blame.
“It was an incredibly disap-pointing weekend, almost to the point of embarrassment,” Hollo-way said in a release on March 12. 
“All I can say is that we will 
be better in outdoors. We have to be.”
He vowed he would fix the 
issues that plagued his team — inconsistency, injury and lack of mental toughness — during out-door season.
He backed that up.
On Friday, the Florida men’s 
team captured the NCAA Out-
door Championship in Eugene, Oregon, in incredible fashion.
It came down to the 4x400 
relay team of Kunle Fasasi, Ar-man Hall, Hugh Graham Jr. and Najee Glass, who only needed a sixth-place finish to win the title.
“I knew we had to get through 
the end of the race,” Fasasi said on Friday. 
“What I had in my mind ma-
jorly was not to get disqualified for any reason — not beat the gun, stay in the lane, good ex-change. 
"I was more focused on that 
than running to them.”
But as soon as Glass crossed 
the finish line in the last leg of the race in second place, Fasasi 
no longer had to worry.
They were  champions.On the women’s side, Satur-
day did not prove to be as excit-
ing as Friday had been for the men. 
Florida ended the champion-
ship tied for ninth, and its tal-ented 4x400 and 4x100 relay teams failed to crack the top-
three times. 
The women’s team hasn’t 
won a national title since 1992.
“We have to get some more 
people that have a little bit more pride and passion for what we 
do here,” Holloway said. 
“I know we’re young in some 
areas, but, at the end of the day, 
that falls on my shoulders.”Florida concludes outdoor season with titleFOLEY HAS WON 27 
NATIONAL TITLES.
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After 25 seasons and 27 national 
championships, Florida athletic direc-
tor Jeremy Foley is retiring. 
Foley, the longest-tenured ath-
letic director in program history, an-
nounced the decision to retire on 
Monday. He will ofﬁ  cially step down 
on Oct. 1.
“As difﬁ  cult as a decision it has 
been to make, I know the time is right,” Foley said in a release.
Foley is the only athletic director in 
NCAA Division I history to win mul-
tiple national titles in both football 
and basketball. In addition, UF has 
claimed the Southeastern Conference 
All-Sports Trophy, given to the school 
with that year’s most successful sports 
programs, in all but one of his seasons 
as Florida’s athletic director.
Florida’s 27 national titles under 
Foley is tied for the most among any 
active Division I athletic director.
After his retirement, Foley will re-
main with Florida as Emeritus Athlet-ics Director.
“I ﬁ  rmly believe my time as ath-
letics director is ending so that I can 
move into the next phase of my life,” 
Foley said. “And I eagerly look for-
ward to this next phase.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgAthletic director announces retirement 
SEE TRACK,  PAGE 15Alligator File Photo
From left: Mike Hill, UAA executive associate athletics director for external affairs, and Chip 
Howard, executive associate athletics director of internal affairs, watch Jeremy Foley speak about his career at an Accent Speaker's Bureau event in the Evans Champions Club on April 7, 2015. "It's not a perfect science, " he said about the process of hiring a new coach. "The ﬁ  t part is really important. The honesty and integrity part is really important. "
People love to talk about how 
it’s important to be a leader. 
There are entire societies at UF 
dedicated to teaching students this very skill. In job interviews, we’re told we need to come across as leaders, innovators and the like, even if it’s not true. And of course, who among the job-savvy doesn’t put “leadership” as a skill on their LinkedIn proﬁ  le?
Many people desperately want 
to be leaders, but only a select few are. And I’ll be the ﬁ  rst to admit I’m not among them. 
But I’ll still never forget when 
I ﬁ  rst recognized what real leader-ship looked like, and it happened courtesy of UF athletics director Jeremy Foley, who announced his impending retirement on Monday after 25 seasons in his current role.
It was fall of my freshman year 
in my Sports Media and Society class. 
Our teacher had brought in Fol-
ey as a guest speaker, and some-one had asked him about UF’s pol-icy regarding fans rushing the ﬁ  eld after football games. 
For those who don’t know, UF 
is notorious for its strident opposi-tion to fans rushing the ﬁ  eld. Look no further than the parade of cops — which Foley said some people refer to as the Gestapo — that sur-rounds the ﬁ  eld in the fourth quar-ter as proof. 
I always hated that rule. Rushing the ﬁ  eld, breaking 
down the goal posts; it all looked like fun to me. SWEET AND BAUER
Foley 
leaves legacy of leadership
Ethan Bauer
twitter: @ebaueri
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 1514   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
Tim Reynolds
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) — 
Edgar Michelangeli does not lead 
the Miami Hurricanes in any official stat category.
He may lead the nation in bat 
flips.
Michelangeli’s big swings have 
helped the Hurricanes back to the College World Series, and the antics that followed those swings have merited plenty of attention. He tip-toes between celebratory and over-exuberant, and his reaction after a grand slam against Boston College on Sunday that essentially clinched Miami’s 25th trip to Omaha helped spark a benches-clearing brouhaha.
“It’s spur of the moment, hon-
estly,” Michelangeli said. “A lot of emotions go on in those moments. 
I play with passion and it happens.”
Some might say there’s a little 
too much passion. The Hurricanes 
aren’t bothered — they’re back in the CWS for the second consecu-tive year, and will face Arizona in their opening game of the CWS this weekend.
Twice in recent weeks, Michel-angeli has swung and watched a ball take flight toward left field with-out any doubt that it would soon be clearing the wall. Michelangeli’s reaction to both has been largely the same — he would start slowly walking to first base, bat held out in 
front of him for a few steps, before 
he tosses it in the air and begins his trot around the diamond.
“That’s as good as it gets, I’ve 
got to say,” Miami outfielder Willie Abreu said. “It’s exciting. Baseball’s evolving. You hear ‘make baseball fun again’ and those are the kind of things that make baseball exciting.”Miami’s opponents have, pre-
dictably, a slightly different perspec-tive.
When Michelangeli first flipped 
the bat against North Carolina State (who bat-flipped the Hurricanes an inning earlier) in the Atlantic Coast 
Conference tournament with a go-
ahead three-run home run in the ninth inning, he heard some un-happy sentiments from Wolfpack players.
“I might have said a word or 
two,” N.C. State first baseman Pres-ton Palmeiro acknowledged.
Michelangeli is hitting .274 this season, sixth-best among Miami’s regulars. But he’s shown a knack for big hits at big times.
Besides the postseason homers, 
he had a game-ending single in the 11th inning to beat Clemson and give Hurricanes coach Jim Morris 
his 1,000th win at the school back in 
March, and yes, that one got quite a celebration from Michelangeli and his teammates as well.
“I’m not worried about the critics, ” 
Michelangeli said. “I just get excited and I’m excited for our team. We’re go-ing to the College World Series and I can’t be happier about that. ”
Michelangeli’s bat flips highlight Miami’s return to CWS“Do we really have to wait un-
til someone gets trampled to death 
or seriously injured by the goal post falling on them before we talk 
about stopping this?” I remember 
him saying.
And he was right. Because even 
though I’ll always enjoy watching 
fans of other teams rush the field 
on TV, something bad will even-
tually happen and everyone from 
Finebaum to First Take will make it a talking point. 
Instead of waiting for that to 
happen, Foley acted preemptively. 
And that’s what real leadership is. 
But real leadership also gets 
results, and in his 25 seasons at 
the helm of Florida’s athletics pro-
grams, Foley got plenty of them. 
Since he became AD in 1992, 
UF has won 27 national champion-
ships. 
Before that, it had won nine. 
Foley’s success also made my 
job both very easy and very diffi-cult.
It’s easy because it’s much more 
fun to cover a team when it’s win-ning and the coach doesn’t have to 
worry about his/her job. 
It’s difficult because one of the 
essential functions of the press is to criticize leaders, and in sports, foremost among those leaders are athletic directors. 
However, aside from the Ron 
Zook and Will Muschamp eras, Foley hasn’t given us much to criticize him for. Pretty much every team at UF is consistently ranked and consistently competes for na-tional titles. 
Heck, I was going to write a col-
umn just two weeks ago about how the track team was underperform-ing — they were ranked in the top 5 but had struggled in the indoor season. But Florida went ahead and won an outdoor national championship this week. 
UF also hasn’t been embroiled 
in any major larger-than-sports scandals during his time, which speaks to his “do it right” mental-ity.
And because of his success, 
Foley certainly deserves a space on UF’s “Mount Rushmore” of sports along with Steve Spurrier, Billy Donovan and Tim Tebow. But here’s something to think 
about: When Tebow left UF, he left shoes the size of a Heisman trophy 
and two national titles. Seven years 
later, no one has been able to fill them.
Foley leaves behind shoes the 
size of 27 titles.
I wish the best of luck to who-
ever tries stepping into them. Ethan Bauer is the assistant 
sports editor. Contact him at ebau-er@alligator.org or follow him on 
Twitter at @ebaueri. TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Holloway has the difficult 
task of rebuilding his teams.
 Both will be losing many tal-
ented seniors who have made 
Florida the national powerhouse it now is.
For the women, Kyra Jeffer-
son, Claudia Francis and Robin Reynolds will be moving on. 
They have all won national 
championships at Florida
Hall and Glass will also leave 
a large void on the men’s side.
But Florida also has young tal-
ent on its roster and a coach who knows how to win titles.
“I’ve got to do a better job of 
recruiting, and I’ve got to do a better job of getting people in here that want to be great,” Hol-
loway said. 
“That’s what we’re going to 
go out and do.”
A video posted to FloridaGa-
tors.com contributed to this story.
 
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.orgTRACK,  from pg13UF will lose several 
star athletes, including 
Jefferson and Hall
Jordan McPherson / Alligator
UF coach Mike Holloway smiles as he talks with his team during the 2016 Florida Relays.
Alligator File Photo
Kelsey Stewart (left) hugs Kathlyn Medina during Florida's championship celebration at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium on June 4, 2015. Athletic Director Jeremy Foley oversaw Florida softball's back-to-back national titles (2014, 2015).
COLUMN,  from pg 14UF has won 27 national championships during Foley's tenure16   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JUNE 14, 2016
UF Players Selected in MLB Draft
LHP A.J. Puk   No. 6    Oakland Athletics
RHP Dane Dunning   No. 29   Washington Nationals
RHP Logan Shore  No. 47  Oakland Athletics
OF Buddy Reed   No. 48   San Diego Padres
1B Peter Alonso   No. 64   New York Mets
RHP Shaun Anderson   No. 88   Boston Red Sox
LHP Scott Moss   No. 108   Cincinnati Reds
LHP Kirby Snead   No. 312   T oronto Blue JaysJordan McPherson / Alligator
Florida’s A.J. Puk pitches during UF’s 10-7 win over T exas A&M on April 3 at McKethan Stadium.
MLB DRAFT
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
When Florida pitcher A.J. Puk 
travels more than 2,700 miles to 
start his new job next year, there will be at least one familiar face.
Puk was selected No. 6 over-
all by the Oakland Athletics in the MLB Draft on Thursday, joining ex-teammate and shortstop Rich-ie Martin, who was selected by Oakland with the 20th pick in the 2015 draft.
Puk, a 6-foot-7 left-hander, 
was the third pitcher taken in the draft. He mainly served as Flori-
da’s Saturday starter over the last 
two seasons, helping to anchor a pitching staff that owns the na-tion’s fourth-best ERA (2.25). 
Before Monday, the junior held 
opponents to a .195 batting aver-age this year, good for second in 
the Southeastern Conference, and 
ranked third in hits allowed (50).
Baseball experts believe Puk 
has the potential to turn into a dominant pitcher at the profes-sional level because of his size and arm strength.
Here’s what baseball analysts 
said about Puk after he was se-
lected on the MLB Network’s tele-
cast of the draft.
MLB Network analyst Pedro 
Martinez:
“I love everything about him. I 
think his 94 to 96 mph fastball is a plus for his age, for his body. It’s a body that’s reaching maturity. He’s still kind of raw, but a very 
bright future for this kid. This kid 
has no ceiling. And coming from the left side, expect great things out of this kid.”MLB Network analyst Dan 
O’Dowd:
“He gets great extension out 
front on his fastball. Tremendous carry through the zone. I do think he’s gonna need a changeup. I think his command and control, 
he walks some guys in college 
now. But this is a legitimate, big-time arm. I think it’s a fresh arm. This is a kid from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, certainly he’s gone to the University of Florida, but I think there’s more ceiling in this player.
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.org 
Pitcher A.J. Puk headlines Florida’s 2016 MLB Draft class