We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 42 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
What is the biggest surprise of 
UF’s season so far?
Lamical Perine has had a breakout year, pg. 13
Senators clash over committee nomination
There were complaints of bias over the decision, pg. 5
Target to discontinue clown masks
But some local stores will still carry them, pg. 5Coﬀ  ee talks
See our photo story from the UF International
Center’s event, pg. 9
CAMPUS
By Catherine Dickson
and Molly Donovan
Alligator Staff Writers
Three weeks before the gen-
eral election, incumbent Florida 
Senator Keith Perry will debate 
his challenger at UF.
Perry and Rod Smith, both 
running for District 8, will speak 
during a free event Tuesday at 
6 p.m. in the Reitz Union Grand 
Ballroom. Accent Speakers Bu-reau and UF External Affairs are hosting the hourlong debate.
Mike Greenberg, the Accent 
chairman, said he hopes students entranced by the U.S. presidential race would use this as an oppor-tunity to learn about local poli-
tics.
“With all the attention that 
the presidential race gets, the local races often get very over-
looked,” the 21-year-old UF po-litical science senior said. “A lot of times, the policies enacted at the local level can have a great effect on students’ lives here in 
Gainesville.”
Greenberg said the debate will 
feature questions about the can-
didates’ policies, and students can submit their own questions.
Sarah Spardy, a UF criminol-
ogy and political science junior and an undecided voter, said she heard about the debate in class 
and is excited to attend, hoping it 
will help her decide between the two candidates.
She said the media tends to be 
biased on the positions of politi-
cians, and debates are important 
because they let people like Smith and Perry speak for themselves. 
“You kind of hear different 
things from different sources, and a lot of them are conﬂ  icting,” she said. “So my way to be the most informed voter is hearing it from their mouths.”
@ced0624 
cdickson@alligator.org
@mollyidonovan 
mdonovan@alligator.org  Accent to host Florida Senate 
candidates for debate
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
A CENTURY TOWER SERENADE
Ryan Klitz, 18, blows into his euphonium under Century T ower on Tuesday during 
The Quarter Sized Tuba Quartet’s weekly performance. It took the UF music performance and business freshman two weeks to arrange the only baritone version of “White Winter Hymnal” by Fleet Foxes, which the group debuted under the tower.
SPORTS
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
A Reitz Union Board Entertain-
ment-sponsored movie is drawing 
mixed reactions from students. “Sausage Party” will be shown 
at the Reitz Union three times this 
weekend: Friday at 8:45 p.m., Satur-day at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 7 p.m. 
The R-rated movie drew criticism 
for its crude language, play on racial stereotypes and sexual jokes after its 
release in August.
The movie features personiﬁ  ed 
foods in a grocery store. The char-acters hope to be taken home by 
humans, whom they call “the gods.” The movie applies racial stereotypes 
to the food, including a Hispanic taco 
and a Jewish bagel. Some jokes also focus on the LGBTQ+ community.
RUB Entertainment’s ﬁ  lm com-
mittee screens movies from many genres, including recent releases, classics, foreign and independent ﬁ  lms. Kaitlin Milligan, a 21-year-old 
UF telecommunication senior and 
the RUB Entertainment president, said the ﬁ  lm committee votes on the 
movies to show at each week. 
She declined to comment further  RUB Entertainment showing ‘Sausage Party’ this week
SEE SAUSAGE,  PAGE 4The movie is controversial for some studentsFootball tickets being refundedPerry
Smith
• Each student will be refunded $20 per ticket bought, including guest tickets.
• Refunds will be made to the credit or debit card the purchase was made on. If 
students paid for the tickets in cash, the ticket holders will receive checks. 
• Students can expect the refunds by the end of October
• Tickets for the Louisiana State University away game will cost: $50, down from the previous price of $100 .
• T o compensate for one fewer home game this season, UF will take on LSU in 
Gainesville in the 2017 and 2018 seasons.Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM
HIGH  86° LOW  63°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Author to discuss Mobile 
Memorials as evidence of a 
shift in grieving practicesProfessor Candi Cann from Baylor University is giving a free lecture 
Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in Smathers 
Library, Room 100. In this lecture, Cann will show how the margin-alization of grief in contemporary American culture has made por-table forms of public mourning more widespread. These include memorial tattoos, car decals and social-media shrines honoring the dead. This event is the third in an eight-part-speaker series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide,” during which in-ternationally renowned scholars 
and filmmakers explore unique 
cultural and historical confronta-tions with death. For more infor-mation, visit humanities.ufl.edu.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line 
to msmith@alligator.org. To re-
quest publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in 
the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at  2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2005. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The 
Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
VOLUME 111 ISSUE 42
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Smith, msmith@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Aaron Albright, aalbright@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
University Editor  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zachary Lee, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor  Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Aaron Albright, Emily Cochrane,  
  Zachary Lee, Melissa Smith
Photo Editor Isabel Bonnet, ibonnet@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Mia Gettenberg, Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, Mackenzie Duffy, David                   
  Hoffman, Lauren Janata, Amanda Price,  
  Kaelah Scheff,  Elias Selimos, Michael   
  Smith
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 • 800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Eric Herrero, Kylie Johnson, 
  Christian Mayorga, Sydney Pizelman,   
  Eva Sailly, Chris Timson  
 Advertising Clerks  Jordan Thurn
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren Rowland
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
Adebola Adedoyin, a 21-year-old political science senior, donated money to get cookies at the fundraising 
event held on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday afternoon. “Breast cancer affects a lot more women than people know, ” Adedoyin said.Evei Hackett, an 18-year-old Florida Virtual School student and the daughter of UF religion professor David Hackett, donated $2 for the opportunity to throw two water balloons at Eric Ramos, the president of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity. Hackett said she “likes to see what’s happening on the Plaza; there’s always something. ”Eric Ramos, a 29-year-old family, youth and community sciences senior and the president of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity , gets hit with a water balloon on the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday afternoon. Ramos said he believes it’s important for money to go toward ﬁ  nding a cure for breast cancer.AWARENESS, BALLOONS 
AND COOKIES
Photos by Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
The Caribbean Students Association and Phi Beta 
Sigma fraternity hosted a fundraising event for 
the Susan G. Komen for the Cure foundation on 
the Plaza of the Americas on Tuesday afternoon. 
Participants were able to throw a water balloon at 
the president of Phi Beta Sigma or get cookies in exchange for a donation. 4   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
about this weekend’s movie choice. 
According to Alligator archives, 
over the Summer, GatorNights staff 
members considered applying an 
age limit to events, which would 
only admit people 18 and older, but it hasn’t been implemented.
Sunny Saini, 21, said he worries 
about children being brought to the movie. RUB Entertainment allows students to bring one guest with them. 
“Just the promotional artwork 
can be misleading,” the UF geology senior said. “Parents who don’t fol-
low the movie may just think it’s an-
other cartoon.”
Gabe Lara, the interim associate 
director for Multicultural and Diver-sity Affairs, said the topics covered in the movie are not what should be 
encouraged on campus.  “As a professional working in 
multicultural affairs, that is not the type of language and dialogue I 
would like to see,” he said.
He said jokes made at the expense 
of different races and the LGBTQ+ community are not something he finds funny.
Lara said although he wouldn’t 
encourage students to see the movie, he would want those who do attend 
to be cautious about accepting the movies’ stereotypes. 
“We’re suggesting that students 
be mindful of what they’re doing 
and what they’re going to watch,” he said. 
Daniel Bowen, a UF history and 
political science senior, said the movie should be shown. Although 
the content in “Sausage Party” is 
blunt and straightforward, the movie was well-made with an original con-
cept, he said. With a Hispanic taco, a Jewish 
bagel and a disabled hot dog, the movie was interesting in a bizarre 
way, he said.
“Some people might find it of-
fensive,” the 21-year-old said. “It was offensive, but they joke about everyone. The movie doesn’t single 
out one group.”
@ced0624
cdickson@alligator.org
SAUSAGE,  from pg. 1RUB Entertainment votes on the movies to show each weekCAMPUSBy Jasmine Osmond
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville was ranked Monday 
as the one of the most LGBTQ-inclu-
sive cities in Florida.
In the Human Rights Campaign’s 
2016 Municipal Equality Index, 
Gainesville was ranked sixth most 
inclusive to members of the LG-BTQ+ community, based on how anti-discrimination policy is han-dled by local government and law enforcement, according to a media release.
The top cities were Miami Beach, Orlando, St. Petersburg, West Palm Beach and Wilton Manors, all with perfect scores of 100 points. 
Gainesville earned 98 points.
Terry Flemings, the co-president 
of the Pride Community Center of 
North Central Florida, said Gaines-ville’s ranking was well-deserved.
Just this year, he said, both 
Gainesville Police and the Alachua County Sheriff’s Office hired three LGBTQ+ liaisons to allow members 
of the community to directly contact 
law enforcement when faced with discrimination, he said.
In 2008, Flemings said, Gainesville became the first city in the U.S. to uphold anti-discrimina-tion policies specifically aimed to-
ward transgender people.
“That speaks volumes for what 
Gainesville is like when you hear 
about the battles being fought in North Carolina or Indiana and other places struggling to pass protec-tions,” he said. “Gainesville was the first place to get that done.”
Although she’s glad that the 
city received such a high ranking, Carolyna Guillen, the president of UF’s Pride Student Union, said she doesn’t feel Gainesville is as inclu-sive as UF.
Of the several services and pro-
grams offered to LGBTQ+ students, 
she said the Trans Resource Net-
work may be the most important to students beginning their sexual-identity transitions.
“We see a lot of youth who are 
transitioning during college, and to have a resource available to them that can help with name changes, hormone therapy and counseling is 
so wonderful,” she said. “Too won-
derful for me to express.”
Services like the Trans Resource 
Network, a new permanent Pulse shooting memorial to be installed at 
the Reitz Union and gender-neutral 
bathrooms are all small steps to-ward making UF as inclusive as it can be, she said.
“These are all efforts that help 
make UF more inclusive and wel-coming of our community; howev-er, there’s always more to be done,” she said. “UF has made long strides, 
but the walk isn’t over.”
@jawosmond
Josmond@alligator.org
Gainesville ranks sixth in LGBTQ+ inclusivity in Florida
SHE TALKED ABOUT RENOVA -
TIONS AND MEDIA COVERAGE.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer 
Following controversies surrounding 
UF’s Levin College of Law, the college’s 
dean told students Tuesday night that she wants to improve the college’s rank-
ings. 
At the first Fall town hall meeting, 
Laura Ann Rosenbury addressed changes she hopes to implement and asked the 
crowd of about 30 for input. She took questions as she talked about introduc-ing a new student organization and reno-vating the college. 
Rosenbury compared Levin College 
of Law to other law colleges that have ranked higher, emphasizing she wants to follow UF President Kent Fuchs’ goal to 
make UF a top-10 college.
“I want you to make UF Law a top law 
school,” she said. “For our size, we’re 
lagging behind.” 
Rosenbury discussed creating a Stu-
dent Bar Association, which would work with the administration and voice stu-dent concerns. She said a bookstore will be added to the ground floor of the col-
lege after the end of the semester. Reno-
vations to the student cafeteria will fol-low. 
Before concluding the meeting, she 
answered a pre-submitted question 
about media coverage regarding tension 
between law school administration, fac-ulty and students. 
Rosenbury said the coverage shows 
the commitment of others to improve the college.
Veronica Dossat, 24, said the town 
hall allowed her voice to be heard. 
“Not only did I hear what the dean 
had to say, I also feel better as far as where the law school’s going, what the law school’s doing,”  the third-year UF law student said.
@MelissaGomez004
mgomez@alligator.org UF law dean addresses 
changes for the college
THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE  
AND UF SUPREME COURT HAVE  
MADE DECISIONS BASED ON  
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Two petitions filed Monday are challeng-
ing whether UF’s Supreme Court can use the 
U.S. Constitution and Florida Constitution in 
its recent rulings, including remote online vot-
ing and campaign finance reform. 
Senator Ford Dwyer (Access, Law) said he 
wanted to submit the petitions after the Ju-
diciary Committee failed bills submitted by 
members of Access Party on the basis that the bill didn’t follow the Florida and U.S. Consti-
tutions. In the petitions, Dwyer cites former 
UF Supreme Court rulings saying the court doesn’t have the authority to rule on the U.S. Constitution. 
The first petition asks the court to review 
whether it can rely on the U.S. and Florida Constitutions as its primary defense of deci-sions, he said. The second petition regards the ability of the Student Government Judiciary 
Committee to also use the U.S. and Florida 
Constitutions in its rulings. Each petition has more than 20 student signatures.
The UF Supreme Court previously ruled 
that the court didn’t have the authority to in-
terpret provisions of the U.S. Constitution.
“Our jurisdiction pertains exclusively to 
student body laws and the actions of Student 
Government officials whose power derives 
from the Student Body Constitution,” the court wrote in an order after a hearing a 2012 
petition concerning perceived First Amend-ment violations in the 700 codes, which gov-
ern UF’s SG elections. 
Dwyer said he believes the 2012 order 
overturned a ruling the court made in 2006, 
which stated that SG’s laws are governed by, 
and abide by, the Florida Constitution and the 
Florida Administrative Code.
The conflicting opinions have caused prob-
lems for Access members who attempted to pass bills on online voting and campaign fi-
nance reform, Dwyer said. Before Student 
Senate could vote on them, the Judiciary Committee found them unconstitutional. 
“If the UF Supreme Court isn’t willing to 
make their decisions based off of federal and state law, then they can’t serve as a check and balance to the Judiciary Committee,” he said. 
If the court rules that it can use the U.S. and 
Florida Constitutions in its decisions, then the 
petitions ask the court to overturn five rules in 
the 700 elections codes on the basis that they violate students’ First Amendment rights. 
Parts of the codes limit how and when stu-
dents can talk about and campaign for SG par-ties, he said. 
UF Supreme Court Chief Justice Chris Trib-
bey said he received both petitions Tuesday and will work with the court, Dwyer and the 
SG executive branch to pick time to hear the 
petitions. 
“We’re probably looking at two to three 
weeks,” he said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgSG petitions challenge 
decisions based on federal, 
state constitutions
Melissa Gomez / Alligator Staff
Laura Ann Rosenbury, the dean of UF’s 
Levin College of Law, speaks to about 30 students during a town hall meeting on Tuesday night. She discussed plans to improve the college’s rankings as well physical improvements to the campus.
HE MAY FACE A BATTERY CHARGE.
By Caitlin Ostroff
Alligator Staff Writer
An Alachua County Sheriff’s deputy may 
soon face a battery charge for using unneces-
sary force during an arrest last month, the sheriff’s office announced Tuesday.
During the incident, which occurred Sept. 
29, Deputy Dominic Bevilacqua forced a man to the ground, hit him and twice used his Taser, according to an arrest report.
The man had been reportedly sitting in 
a ditch with his dog in the 14400 block of NE State Road 26 when Bevilacqua arrived, responding to a resident’s call, according to the report.
Video footage of the ensuing arrest — 
which left the man bloodied — was recorded on the deputy’s dashboard camera.
On Sept. 30, the day after the arrest, Sher-
iff Sadie Darnell placed Bevilacqua on paid administrative suspension pending the out-come of the criminal investigation and the internal investigation by the Office of Profes-sional Standards at the Alachua County Sher-iff’s Office.
The sheriff’s office filed a sworn com-
plaint Tuesday with the State Attorney’s of-fice recommending the charge be filed, said sheriff’s office spokesman Art Forgey. An in-ternal investigation will begin once the state attorney decides whether to file the charge.
“What we saw from witnesses and the 
camera is that the actions of Deputy Bevilac-qua were justified up until the point where it reached a line,” Forgey said. “We felt he assaulted the victim instead of doing his nor-mal police business.”
Prior to the arrest, when Bevilacqua ar-
rived at the area, the man spoke to him and asked if the deputy wanted to see his ID be-fore walking away. Bevilacqua then reached for the man’s arm to move him away from the road, according to the report. The man resisted, and Bevilacqua forced him to the ground before hitting him in his arm and shoulder.
Unable to get the man’s hands from un-
derneath his torso, Bevilacqua then used his Taser twice on the man. After the first shock, he appears to scream, “Oh, godd---.”
“Put your hands behind your back, or 
you’re going to get Tased again,” Bevilacqua responds.
The man was later taken to hospital with 
injuries to his face and back, Forgey said.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5
THEY ARGUED NEPOTISM 
PLAYED A ROLE IN THE 
NOMINATION.
By Katelyn Newberg 
Alligator Staff Writer 
An Impact Party student sena-
tor defended her recommenda-
tion to a Student Senate commit-
tee amid claims of nepotism from 
other senators Tuesday night. 
Senator Ford Dwyer (Access, 
Law) objected Senator Corben 
Champoux’s (Impact, Rawlings) 
nomination during Senate to the budget and allocations commit-tee, claiming some of the other 22 senators who applied were more 
qualified. The recommendation 
wasn’t appropriate because she is Senate President Pro  Tempore Austin Champoux’s sister, Dwyer argued. She was eventually ap-proved for the position. 
Dwyer said even if the sib-
lings’ relationship didn’t affect the nomination, it didn’t appear right for her to receive the posi-tion over other senators.
“Not just that you two are re-
lated, not just that Senator Cham-poux is a first-semester freshman, but that (Corben Champoux) only applied for one committee seat,” 
Dwyer said.
Dwyer said Impact members 
approached him about the role 
of nepotism in the decision. Aus-tin Champoux is the chair of the 
replacement and agenda commit-
tee, which recommends senators for positions. 
Austin Champoux, a non-vot-ing member of the committee, said he didn’t voice his opinion on his sister while the committee discussed her qualifications. 
“When we are in the Senate 
Chambers, we are senators,” he said. 
Senators Zachariah Chou (In-
dependent, Infinity) and Wallace 
Mazon (Impact, District E) also 
spoke against the appointment. 
Corben Champoux said she has 
experience as her high school’s 
student body president and swim 
team captain.
“I think people can see my 
credibility and my passion and my knowledge for all of the goals 
for the budget committee,” she 
said.
@k_newberg 
knewberg@alligator.orgSenators argue committee nomination, claim bias in decision
Katelyn Newberg / Alligator Staff
Senator Corben Champoux (Impact, Rawlings) stands next to her 
brother, Senate President Pro T empore Austin Champoux (Impact, District A). Senators debated Corben Champoux’s qualifications for her appointment to the budget and appropriations committee.
ACSO files criminal complaint against deputyEmma Green / Alligator Staff
BRAS FOR A DIFFERENT KIND OF SUPPORT
Lauren Bugner, a 20-year-old UF health education junior, takes aim at bras on Turlington Plaza for Omega Phi Alpha’s fundraising event for breast cancer research.  Unlimited throws cost $1, and players paid $5 each to enter a contest for T arget and Starbucks gift cards.
By Molly Vossler
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two weeks before masked, candy-crav-
ing children prowl the streets of Gainesville, 
a major retailer has announced it will stop 
selling clown masks.
In light of “creepy clown” sightings across 
the country — including in Gainesville 
— Target stores will no longer sell clown 
masks, according to USA Today. The deci-sion was made last week, Target representa-
tive Joshua Thomas told the news agency.
By Tuesday, all clown-related merchan-
dise had been removed from the Target in 
Butler Plaza.
“Given the current environment, we have 
made the decision to remove a variety of 
clown masks from our assortment, both in 
stores and online,” Thomas said in an email 
statement to USA Today.
After first making headlines in South 
Carolina in August, the clown craze reached 
Gainesville on Sept. 27, when a woman called police and said a clown was standing 
outside Georgetown Apartments staring at 
her, according to Alligator archives.
About two weeks ago, A.J. Hall, an em-
ployee at the Butler Plaza Target, said she saw a person dressed as a clown on Depot 
Avenue.
“It was just chasing people,” she said. 
“I’m sweating thinking about it.”
Hall said although clowns are her worst 
fear, she’s comforted by the fact that she has 
a concealed-carry gun permit.
While Target decided to deflect the de-
mand for clown accessories, local costume-
store owner Michael Brooks has said he 
expected a surge in clown-related sales at 
his three stores in Gainesville, according to 
archives.
Virginia Keselowsky, a Gainesville resi-
dent and a Target shopper, said as a mother, she thinks Target made the right decision.
“Maybe if I wasn’t a mom, I wouldn’t 
care as much,” she said. “If I saw a clown 
trick-or-treating, I probably wouldn’t answer 
the door.”Target to 
discontinue 
clown masksThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Emily Cochrane
EDITORMelissa Smith
Aaron Albright
MANAGING EDITORSZachary Lee
OPINIONS EDITOR
Appreciating music for the tunes and the emotion
The late movie critic Roger Ebert once said 
he didn’t have a favorite movie but that he had many favorites. In terms of mu-sic, I feel the same way. Jimi Hendrix, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Led Zep-
pelin, Fleetwood Mac, the Rolling Stones, the Doors, Sam Cooke, Prince, Michael Jackson, Ice Cube — depending on the day and how long the car ride is, I will listen to any, or all, of these artists with glee. Please do not ask which is my favorite. Did Voldemort have a favorite Horcrux? No, he needed all of them. So, too, do I need the variety of sounds, styles and emotions that each of these artists of-fer in their music (Sorry, that was an awful “Harry Potter” analogy).
To truly enjoy music, I need the wailing voice of John 
Fogerty, the deep, echoing chords of Hendrix, Ice Cube’s anger, the unique sound of Led Zeppelin, Morrison’s odd-ness and Prince’s artistry. Listening to Run-D.M.C. right after Eric Clapton, or “Folsom Prison Blues” followed by “Ain’t No Sunshine,” gives me such an appreciation for all that music is — for all that art can do. These artists have nothing in common — different beats, themes, sounds — except the ability to create beautiful, harmonious noise that conveys a message, story or poem. The creative passion binds the great musicians together, and yet it also separates them. For it is the act of creation in which the musical spec-trum takes shape. In other words, it is in creating that the artist makes music according to his or her own inclination or style. And a good portion of what makes these artists truly great is this difference in style.
By listening to this diverse range of expression, we enter 
into the most direct form of creative diversity life can offer. And this entry is a vital part, I think, of the human expe-rience: The ability to make something meaningful out of insigniﬁ  cant means is one of the essential characteristics of humanity. We are all creative in our own ways. Even those of us who are not musically inclined or artisti-cally motivated are still creating friendships, still forming and shaping ideas, still making diverse life choices. At the very heart of humanity lies an ineffable urge to make sense of things by making things; it is the privilege of being a human be-ing that through those made things — relation-ships, businesses, music, literature, sculptures, architecture — we can acquire a deeper under-standing of ourselves, life and where we ﬁ  t in this world.
Music, to me, carries within itself this power to make 
sense of, supplement and enrich life in a way that no other medium can. Show me people who can absolutely resist the urge to get up offa that thing when they hear James Brown screeching “Get Up Offa That Thing.” Show me people whose souls would not be touched when they hear Yo-Yo Ma create a beautiful melody in “The Swan.” The fantastic spectrum of music, from entertainment to poetry, from Tay-lor Swift to Bob Dylan, is part of what makes music such an important part of enjoying life. If we expose ourselves to not just country, but also hip-hop or maybe classical or classic rock at least, we are engaging in the truest expres-sion of the creative urge. By doing so, we afﬁ  rm our unique humanness — we indulge that capacity to make sense of things through made things.
As you can tell, I hope, I take music very seriously. It 
is not just a means of entertainment, though that genre or style is oftentimes necessary for me. I, like everyone else, need to switch off my mind for a while and enjoy a catchy song. But I guess what I want to say is this: Music is so much more than that. There is a layer to music that lies beyond human expression; it can move me to tears or leave me deep in thought. There is a power there — let’s enjoy it together.
Scott Stinson is a UF English and philosophy sophomore. 
His column usually appears on Tuesdays.Religious 
self-reﬂ  ection is 
necessary
There is a religious private school, somewhere out there in 
this great big world, that teaches young Muslim women that it is morally permissible for men to strike their wives, to kill gay people and that Jews and Christians upset Al-lah. If we were to ask you where you think such a school 
was situated, what would you say? Iraq? Pakistan? Iran? 
If you guessed Nottingham, England, unfortunately you are 
correct. Jamia Al Hudaa has been shut down as a result of such teachings. According to The Independent, the school taught “no geography, history, art, sport or music,” and instead subjected students to these morally repugnant views.
Hopefully, dear reader, you immediately read that and thought 
happy thoughts like “The Quran mentions peace far more than it mentions violence, and treating humans with respect and dignity 
is one of the core pillars of Islam.” And you’re not wrong if you 
thought that. Those are both true statements. But the literature does mention some pretty horrible punishments that are sup-posed to be dealt to people found guilty of some otherwise trivial crimes. Sometimes, those punishments were intended to be dealt to those who, from our perspective, have committed no crimes — they have just loved another person. 
Whether you like it or not, those who claim Islam is a religion 
of peace derive this conclusion from the same place that fun-
damentalists derive their conclusion that Islam is a religion ﬁ  ne 
with spousal abuse and murder: the literature.
We bring this to your attention, readers, not to attack those 
who uphold the pillars and traditions of Islam, but to address the uncomfortable fact that virtually every religious text we hold dear to us as a society is ﬂ  awed. The Bible, the Torah, the Quran — these books are the words of the gods you believe in, but they were written by man, and man’s way of thinking has come a long way since those initial writings.
Rather than dismiss morally repugnant practices as “culturally 
different,” dismiss them as immoral. Remain consistent in your view that a practice is wrong. This doesn’t mean you have to be afraid of whatever ideology that is; it just means you ought to be critical of a practice regardless of who perpetuates it.
Additionally, if you are a member of an ideology advocating 
for a popular, mainstream view that usually rejects gross practic-es, please acknowledge that religion is in fact an “all-or-nothing” game. If you believe that your religious literature is divinely or-
dained by one of the 3,000+ gods that have ever been conceived 
in human history, you’re not allowed to cherry-pick the pieces that you like and ignore the pieces that you don’t like. If you do that, you have to confront your inconsistency.
All we’re asking, dear reader, is to acknowledge that in terms 
of religious practice, everybody derives, for better or for worse, his or her conclusions from the same pieces of literature. Perhaps the practicing institutions ought to be reformed on the most fun-damental level, the same way many other aspects of our lives 
should.
Some of you may be reading this editorial and thinking it in 
some way justiﬁ  es your belief that we shouldn’t let refugees from 
foreign nations into our country. You’re wrong. Fear and arro-gance cannot solve this problem. There needs to be open dia-logue, discussion and informational exchange for this to occur. This cannot and will not happen if we refuse to embrace change and continue to grow as a society. 
Scott Stinson
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
The other night I went to High Dive 
to catch a tribute set of my favorite band of all time, The Smiths. The 
cover set was played by the Ordi-
nary Boys, a band whose only func-
tion is to replicate the sound of The Smiths, as well as Morrissey’s solo work (yuck).
I went to the show feeling apprehen-
sive. First and foremost, I normally don’t like going to High Dive — its clean, pol-ished-wood interior and overpriced drinks kill the dingy vibe I crave when catching 
local or independent touring acts in con-
cert. You can’t smoke inside, and the stage towers above the audience, putting the performers in an awkward, oligarchic posi-
tion when playing to a less-than-half-ﬁ  lled 
room, as was the case at the Ordinary Boys show.
Still, I went to the show. A couple of 
close friends were performing as one of 
the local openers, so I wanted to show my 
support. Plus, no matter how I feel about High Dive, I really do love The Smiths. Of course, the Ordinary Boys aren’t really The Smiths.
OK, so the band’s singer, 
AJ, does a pretty spot-on Mor-
rissey impression — that is, if 
you close your eyes. I love Mor-rissey not only for his distinct operatic voice, but also for his 
onstage energy, sex appeal and 
bravado. AJ might have spent the last 30-something years of his life perfecting his Morrissey vo-cal impression, but he certainly didn’t do 
a good job imitating Morrissey’s distinct 
stage presence.
Maybe if one were to compare AJ’s stage 
persona to that of Morrissey decades after 
his work with The Smiths, the two would 
bear some resemblance. I could see it in AJ’s receding hairline and puny pompa-dour, trying, as Morrissey tried in the later years of his career, to recall a style made 
timeless by a once young, vivacious per-
former. I could also see an impression of the now-geriatric Morrissey in AJ’s round gut and sweaty button-down shirt.I get that AJ is older and chub-
bier than Morrissey was in his prime, but he could have at least 
tried to replicate some of Mor-
rissey’s old performance tricks. How hard is it to wave around a bouquet of ﬂ  owers? Unbutton a 
couple more buttons? Get a little 
closer to the audience?
Maybe what bothered me 
most about this performance 
was just how uncomfortable AJ made me 
feel. He wasn’t sexy, and it was awkward 
to watch him try to be. Every so often, he would pull out some half-hearted attempt at sex appeal, matching lyrics to subtle 
hand gestures that recalled a function of 
the human reproductive system. 
Throughout the performance, he would 
do things like brush the back of his hand against his crotch, or push the index ﬁ  nger 
of his left hand into a circle made with the 
index ﬁ  nger and thumb of his right hand, as if to recall penetration. I was made es-pecially uneasy by the fact that High Dive’s tall stage put me at eye level with the out-line of AJ’s ﬂ  accid penis bulging through the thin fabric of his tight pants.
The rest of the band had a lackluster 
performance. I resent the fact that the Ordinary Boys have two guitarists, who stumbled over Johnny Marr’s single guitar 
parts sloppily and with way too much dis-
tortion. The rhythm section failed to keep up the steady, fast-paced grooves that were once played mechanically by Andy Rourke and Mike Joyce on old Smiths records.
In the end, I think I’m simply troubled 
by the idea of a cover band. As a musician, I am concerned when I think about other musicians who spend copious amounts of 
time and money on cheap recreations of 
classic bands. And if this cover-band thing is just a gig meant to make the guys from the Ordinary Boys some extra money, then I must have caught this group at a bad 
time, because the members played to an 
empty room — on a Saturday night.
Jeremy Haas is a UF English junior. His 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Life is a rough experience ﬁ  lled with ups and downs. Since the moment we are born, expectations of great-
ness are placed on us. Our parents 
look at us and say, “I hope he be-
comes a doctor,” or “She will be a movie star.” 
We are raised in a society with a rigid 
idea of success. Getting an education, be-coming your own boss, ﬁ  nding love at ﬁ  rst sight, getting married, having children, be-ing beautiful, owning a home and a dog 
— these are just some standards that make 
up the idea of happiness. Why and when did we decide this was the absolute accom-plishment?
Many environments and industries have 
been shaped by these traditional concepts. We see these concepts being applied as the criteria for acceptance in the fashion industry, during the employment process, in our high-school in-teractions and so on. Have you 
noticed this? Do you appreciate 
how arbitrary these ideas are? Why do we constantly have to sell ourselves as perfect crea-
tures?
I like to confront this issue by 
recalling Carl Sagan: We are, as 
he described, a pale blue dot in the middle of space. So lonely 
and insigniﬁ  cant that we had to create a 
world of fantasy and ego in order to avoid facing the scary truth. 
It is frightening and awe-inspiring to 
look up at the sky and realize we are part of something greater, and we are pretty lucky to be conscious enough to appreci-ate it. But sadly, we still let shoes, 
debt and social media overcome this humbling reality. Our life-
style and the way we interact 
with one another has created for us an artiﬁ  cial sense of control to keep us safe from fear.
How many times have you ar-
gued with yourself because you didn’t get that grade, that job or that recognition? How many times have you been overpow-
ered by your thirst to thrive and knock out the competition? Have you realized that, in the end, maybe this shouldn’t be the over-all goal?
When you open your mind and eyes to 
the bigger picture, you start to realize how your problems are miniscule compared to the bigger picture. You understand the complexity within life, and you feel in-spired to the core of your being. Looking at the people around you that you might 
never get to know, enjoying a meal and re-
alizing that you are nourishing little com-plex pieces that make you, you, looking at the stars and realizing that we are orbiting 
around a giant ball of ﬁ  re, walking around 
your neighborhood and appreciating how trees are transforming the oxygen that ﬁ  lls your lungs... These are some of the simple things around us we take for granted.
If you are struggling with something 
in your life, look up with joy and realize that you are a perfect alignment of coinci-dences. We are all part of something bigger 
than we can even comprehend.
Andrea Taboada is a UF microbiology 
senior. Her column appears on Wednes-
days. This is why I don't like cover bands: A review of a tribute performance
We don't have to adhere to traditional standards of perfection or happinessColumn
ColumnJeremy Haas
opinions@alligator.org
Andrea 
T aboada
opinions@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
Courtesy FDOT
Proposed T ower Road Trail
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
TOGETHER, HAND IN HAND
UF public relations freshman Victoria Arguelles, 18, places her fresh-
ly-painted magenta hand on a Dance Marathon promotional sign that boasted the hashtag #T ogetherWeCan with about 100 other handprints. Joey Whelihan, a 21-year-old Dance Marathon recruitment director, said Dance Marathon is meant to show that “together as a campus, we can make a difference. ” The organization was tabling for the second week of dancer registration.
By Nicole Franco
Alligator Contributing Writer
A group of UF freshmen will 
start raising money next month 
for their invention, which pro-tects camera lenses. 
The three UF students and 
one University of South Florida student created the water-resis-tant elastic-band camera-lens protector, called band.it, after Sarasota photojournalist Thomas Bender approached them about making a product to protect his lenses. 
The four launched their own engineering company, Research Development Manufacturing, in 2015.
The lens protector also acts as 
an extra grip for photographers, said Domenic Aluise, a 19-year-old UF electrical engineering freshman and the CEO of RDM. 
The group will start a cam-
paign on Kickstarter on Nov. 1 to raise $10,000 to make 200 bands, said Jessica Hornyak, RDM’s 
marketing strategist. The com-
pany will have 30 days to raise the funds.
Bender was among the first 
to test out the product, although more than 100 other photogra-phers have tried it since, Aluise said.
“It’s a great product, and I 
use it every day,” Bender said.
Since coming to college, the 
three UF students started mak-ing the protectors in their shared room in Hume Hall. Aluise said it hasn’t hurt their business or ideas. In the past, the group has made prosthetics. 
“I have a passion for nearly 
any problem there is,” Aluise said. “Right now, at this time, I am ready to solve these prob-lems of photography.”UF students raising money 
to sell camera-lens protector
By Justin T ompkins
Alligator Contributing Writer
In the next two years, bicyclists 
and pedestrians in Gainesville will 
have a new option for off-road commuting.
Through funding from 
the Florida Department of Transportation announced Oct. 11, 
a multi-use trail near Tower Road 
will be constructed in late 2017 or early 2018, said Chris Dawson, the senior transportation planner for Alachua County Growth Management.
The trail will be part of an 
intrastate trail system, the Shared Use Nonmotorized Trail, which 
FDOT officials hope will give 
nonmotorists a contiguous series of multi-use trails through Florida. A second trail, near Archer Road, is planned to begin construction in 2020, Dawson said.
“Any time we are expanding 
the trail network, the users benefit, connecting trails, making more mileage,” he said.  “Building these longer green trailways benefit the multiple municipalities.”
The Tower Road trail will 
extend from Southwest 26th Place to Southwest Eighth Avenue, according to an FDOT project list. The Archer Road trail will stretch from Southwest 76th Terrace to Southwest 41st Boulevard.
The Tower Road trail will be 
allocated about $950,000 for design and construction, and the Archer 
trail is planned to be allocated about 
$1.8 million, said Barney Bennette, the FDOT District 2 transportation planning manager. The Archer trail has been funded for preliminary design, and FDOT will carry out the design and construction.
Bill Henderson, the FDOT 
planning and environmental 
manager, said he thinks offering 
residents nonmotorized commuting options is a good idea.
“These trail systems nationwide 
such as bike paths are extremely popular,” he said. “It provides choices for people to get to places without a car.”FDOT sets aside money for two off-road county trailsBy Sloan Savage
Alligator Contributing Writer
Two UF professors juxtaposed 
how to make voting accessible and secure with what those votes could mean for the presidency Tuesday night. 
About 50 people sat in the 
Pugh Hall Ocora as UF professors Juan Gilbert and Michael McDon-ald discussed new voting tech-nology, as well as the early votes already tallied for the upcoming Nov. 8 election. The Bob Graham Center for Public Service held the forum, which was called Explore 
More: The Democracy Machine.
Gilbert spoke first, telling the 
audience about a voting system 
he and others created called Prime III. The technology allows voters with disabilities to cast a ballot and prevents errors in bal-lot counting, the chair of the UF Department of Computer and In-formation Science and Engineer-ing said. 
When using Prime III, voters 
can touch the screen or use their voice to vote, Gilbert said. After the 2000 election, Gilbert and his team were inspired to change the voting system to avoid the errors that occurred with Florida’s but-terfly ballot and hanging chads. 
“We didn’t know, but we had 
created the world’s most acces-
sible voting technology,” Gilbert 
said.  “If you can’t see, if you can’t hear, if you can’t read and if you don’t have arms, you can vote using the same technology as anyone else.”  
McDonald told students and 
Gainesville residents that based on current early votes in Iowa and North Carolina, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump would have to carry mul-tiple swing states in order to win. 
“Surprising events could hap-
pen between now and Election Day, but most likely from what we can look at in polling data and early voting data, things look good for Clinton,” McDonald said.  
Kaitlyn Silverberg, a UF be-
havioral and cognitive neurosci-ence senior, said she attended 
to hear the professor’s unbiased, 
factual thoughts on the election. 
“I thought (McDonald’s) pre-
dictions seemed reasonable, and I liked how he showed the different possibilities for the outcome of the election, depending on swing states,” the 21-year-old said.
Professors discuss voting 
technology, election predictions
Courtesy FDOT
Proposed SR 24/Archer Road multi-use trail
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9
Friends ofthe
Library
LibraryFriends ofthe
Library
Most prices 25¢ to $4
In 64 categories such as Mystery, Sci-Fi, comics, 
manga, non-ﬁction, education, cook books, 
DVDs, CDs, vinyl records, and more
Bring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
T ue/s.end1/2
pric/e.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.endT ue/s.end1/21/21/21/2
pric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.endpric/e.end
We/d.end ever/y.end We/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.endWe/d.end
thin/g.end10¢
ever/y.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endthin/g.endthin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.endever/y.endever/y.end
thin/g.endever/y.end10¢10¢10¢10¢
FOLACLD.org
@FOLACLDBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check OnlyBring your own bags or boxes!    Cash or Check Only
.com/FOLACLD@FOLACLD
430 N. Main St.Sa/t.end. Oc/t.end 22
Su/n.end. Oc/t.end 23
Mo/n.end. Oc/t.end 24
T ue/s.end. Oc/t.end 25
We/d.end. Oc/t.end 269a/m.end - 6p/m.end
noo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.endnoo/n.end - 6p/m.end
Be a part of something  BIG
 GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsCOFFEE TALKS
Photos by Grace King / Alligator Staff 
About 50 students attended the Coffee Without 
Borders event at the UF International Center on Tuesday afternoon. The monthly event, which is hosted by students, is meant to bring people together to talk about politics and other global topics. October’s theme 
was Finding Me Abroad: Identity In Context.
John Steinmeyer, a 21-year-old UF political science and history 
senior, holds out the coffee mug he used at Tuesday’s event. He received the mug as a parting gift from his coworkers at the American Embassy in Berlin.
Sarah Coleman, a 20-year-old UF public relations junior, talks about her experiences abroad. Coleman studied sustainability in New Zealand.Students get food and coffee at the UF International Center’s Coffee Without Borders event on Tuesday. About 50 students attended the event to discuss professional academic identity, American identity, media identity, race, gender and religion.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-7-73-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
12-7-16-73-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
2BR/1.5 BA Condo for Rent in Casablanca 
East. Close to UF/Shands, shopping, and on bus route. Quiet neighborhood, newly remodeled end unit, W/D, screened back porch, and Pool. Available Oct $825/month, contact tonyc@kinetixpt.com or 352-246-5958.     10-25-16-20-2
Beautiful 2BR townhouse in NW Bellamy Forge. Amenities: pool, playground, tennis, 
bball, clubhouse. 4136 NW 46th Dr. Water incl. Near Gville High, Ft Clarke Middle, Talbot Elem $850.00/mo call/text 352-494-3277    10-21-16-17-2PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
11-15-16-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-355112-7-73-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
COMPUTER & LAPTOP REPAIRS
Network specialists
We buy computers and laptops
Working and Non-working
378-4009, 1410 NW 13th Street
12-7-73-7
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FINDIn the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted 
seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-7-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     12-7-73-10
"SPUDS" BUD LITE PARTY DOG15" tall. Plastic $120
May - 352-495-8035            10-07-5-10
STAINLESS STEEL KEGERATOR
Like new condition, complete with manual, 
gas tank & gauges. $350 firm cash. Call 352-
591-2323    10-19-16-5-10
*****THE PUMPKIN PATCH*****
At Littlewood Elementary School
812 NW 34th St by Westside Park
M-F 3-7pm*****Sat-Sun 12-7pm
CASH ONLY****Close to Campus
10-25-5-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 
2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
12-7-16-73-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
12-7-16-73-11
12-7-16-73-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    12-7-73-12
Sun City Auto SalesHome of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  12-7-73-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 9 Bicycles 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
98 Chevy Astro Van $999
02 Ford Windstar $149904 Ford F150 $199900 Chevy Cavalier $999352-338- 1999                         12-7-73-12
97 Toyota Avalon $199991 Lexus LS400 $199901 Audi A6 $149901 Mitsubishi Mirage $1999352-338- 1999                      12-7-73-12
03 Kia Spectra $199903 Ford Focus $199998 GMC 1500 $199997 Ford F150 $1999352-338- 1999                        12-7-73-12
13 Wanted
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-809012-7-73-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.
ACROSS
1 Unlike this clue,
obviously
5 Driving force?
10 Bar regulars, and
then some
14 Bible book before
Romans
15 One-named
singer with 10
Grammys
16 William of
“Broadcast
News”
17 Does well at the
casino?
19 On
20 URL ending21 Bridge call22 Hang loosely23 Star’s statuette
25 Cereal box
factoid
28 Mushroom cloud
makers
30 Pale
31 __ shadow32 Tip to one side
33 Etiquette expert
Baldrige who
was JackieKennedy’s socialsecretary
37 Concert finale ...
and what 17-,
25-, 50- and 60-Across have incommon
41 Comes back with42 Hardly scads44 Beer choice,
briefly
47 Part of un mes48 Ready for the
piano recital
50 Opera house
level
54 “Ugh!”
55 Climbed aboard56 Some Neruda
poems
58 Hawaiian tuna59 Snack since
1912
60 Bullied63 Musée Marc
Chagall city
64 Ancient Greek
region
65 Conversation
piece?
66 __ chair
67 Minute68 Archer of mythDOWN
1 Researcher’s
garb
2 Puzzle with a
quote
3 Recent medical
research subject
4 Org. operating
full-body
scanners
5 Prepare, as
avocados forguacamole
6 Ancient theater7 “Tradition” singer
8 “Bravo!”
9 “You eediot!”
speaker ofcartoons
10 Ventriloquist
Lewis
11 Delighted state?12 Prize in a case
13 Fla. city
18 Go-__22 Overalls material24 Financier aboard
the Titanic
26 Strong string
27 1960s dance
29 Add sneakily34 China’s Zhou __35 “In Here, It’s
Always Friday”letters36 Diminish
38 Enterprise
choice
39 Academic figure40 Southwestern
farm owner
43 Rear ends44 “See ya!”45 Everycity, USA46 Tenochtitlán
natives
49 Where to see
IBM and JNJ51 Deschanel of the
musical duo She& Him
52 Whom to trust, in
“The X-Files”
53 Astronomer
Hubble
57 PayPal’s former
parent
60 Morsel61 Salmon eggs62 More than
impress
By Bruce Haight
©2016 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/19/1610/19/16ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Wednesday, October 19, 2016
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com1. ENTERTAINMENT: The book 
“Happy Trails” was the autobiography 
of what famous Western film couple?
2. HISTORY: What U.S. office did 
Aaron Burr hold when he shot and 
killed Alexander Hamilton?
3. LITERATURE: What was the pen 
name of this 18th-century French writ-er/philosopher whose real name was Francois-Marie Arouet?
4. GEOGRAPHY: What small prin-
cipality is located between France and 
Spain?
5. MUSIC: What father/daughter 
duo had a Billboard No. 1 hit in 1967?
6. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: 
What nation is the top producer of 
vanilla?
7. ASTRONOMY: What is the fifth 
planet from the sun in our solar sys-tem?
8. GEOLOGY: What type of rock is 
pumice?
9. FOOD & DRINK: What were the 
five original colors of M&M’s can-dies?
10. TELEVISION: What were the 
names of the boys on the 1960s show “My Three Sons”?
Answers
1. Roy Rogers and Dale Evans2. Vice president3. V oltaire4. Andorra
5. Nancy and Frank Sinatra
6. Indonesia7. Jupiter8. Igneous9. Red, yellow, brown, green and 
purple
10. Mike, Robbie and Chip
© 2016 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 17, 2016 King Features Weekly Service12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this fall, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  12-7-16-73-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
OFFICE ASSISTANTImmediate, $8.25/hr, 15-20 hrs/wk. Flexible afternoon hours only. Word processing, inter-net surfing, computer savvy. Resume & daily available hours to oma.office@yahoo.com    10-25-16-10-14
CLINICAL RESEARCH INTERNSNeeded pre-med & medical students.
 
Contact Dr Shah Rahimian 814-691-7377    10-24-5-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     12-7-16-73-15Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
Designated drivers are the greatest
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   12-7-16-
73-15
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
14 Help Wanted 15 Services 21 Entertainment 24 Pets 25 Lost & FoundFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Does professional golf really 
need Tiger Woods? Read the columns and pick a side, pg. 14.Volleyball player earns weekly honor
Florida volleyball setter Allie Monserez was named the American Volleyball 
Coaches Association Division I National Player of the Week, the AVCA announced Tuesday. Monserez leads the nation is assists per set at 12.35.Alligator Staff
If you asked any player or coach on Flori-
da’s football team before the season started, 
they likely would have said this is where they expected to be by the bye week: leading the Southeastern Conference East Division 
with a good chance at making the SEC title 
game.
But what has been the most unexpected 
part of UF’s season so far? Football writers Patrick Pinak, Jordan McPherson, Ian Co-hen and Ethan Bauer debate.
Patrick: Freshman wide receivers By far the biggest surprise this season 
has been the impact of Florida’s freshmen wide receivers.
Led by the explosive Tyrie Cleveland, 
the bunch stepped up early in the season with injuries and suspensions to players ahead of them on the depth chart.
Consider this: Cleveland and Josh Ham-
mond have each totaled more than 100 re-ceiving yards this season, marking the first time two UF freshmen receivers have ac-complished the feat since Andre Caldwell and Jemalle Cornelius in 2003.
Even Freddie Swain, who's tallied 74 
receiving yards, is likely to eclipse the cen-tury mark in his first year with the Gators.
For perspective, the last time Florida 
had three freshmen wideouts total 100+ receiving yards in a season came 21 years ago when Jacquez Green, Travis McGriff and Nafis Karim did so.
Two upperclassmen, Ahmad Fulwood 
and C.J. Worton, were expected to have a 
larger role but have taken a backseat to the 
newcomers. They’ve combined for just 71 yards on seven catches. 
Of the young trio, the biggest surprise to 
UF wide receivers coach Kerry Dixon has been Hammond.
But make no mistake, Cleveland has the 
highest ceiling. 
The 6-foot-2 Houston native has 
emerged as a true deep threat and No. 2 wideout opposite Antonio Callaway. That 
was apparent in his breakout game versus 
Missouri, when he hauled in three catches for 79 yards and a touchdown.
Coach Jim McElwain hasn’t been sur-
prised by Cleveland’s performance. He bat-tled hamstring injuries early in the season, but McElwain knew it was only a matter of time before he’d flash his abilities on the field.
“This guy’s got a chance to be some- Alligator Roundtable: Bye Week 
Who has been UF football's biggest surprise?
NATIONAL
By Ian Cohen
Sports Writer
After attempting to flirt with a porn star through 
Twitter, Ole Miss’ starting quarterback will get the chance to go on a date with a different one.
On Tuesday, PornHub.com sent an open letter to 
Chad Kelly, the starting quarterback for the Rebels, 
in an attempt to convince him to go on a date with 
one of its porn stars. 
In September, Kelly was pub-
licly shamed on Twitter by porn star Mia Khalifa, an FSU gradu-ate, after Kelly privately messaged Khalifa and invited her to Ole Miss’ home opener against FSU on Sept. 5. Ole Miss lost. 
After Kelly was again rejected 
by Khalifa on Saturday, Pornhub 
vice president Corey Price sent a 
letter to Kelly, inviting the quarterback to learn how to “best pick up women” in light of Kelly’s failed attempts.
“Think of Pornhub as your dating coach,” Price 
wrote. “We can arrange a lovely dinner date with one of our beautiful porn stars and she can show you the ropes.”
But with the strict limitations the NCAA sets on 
its student athletes — athletes typically are prohib-ited from receiving benefits from anyone not affili-ated with their university — the date doesn’t seem likely to happen in the near future.
An NCAA spokesperson would not comment on 
the letter and directed all questions to the University of Mississippi. As of press time, Ole Miss did not respond to requests for comment.
“We know the NCAA can be a bit harsh on stu-
dent athletes and might not permit this during the season,” Price wrote, “so rest assured the offer will remain beyond your graduation.”
@icohenb
icohen@alligator.orgPorn site offers 
to set up date for Ole Miss quarterback
By Jake Dreilinger
Sports Writer
This one was never in doubt.
The No. 6-ranked Florida 
men's golf team finished the first 
round of the Tavistock Invita-
tional on Sunday in first place and never ceded control, ending the three-day tournament with an 
11-stroke win on Tuesday. 
UF's 20-under-par perfor-
mance was a season-best and 
the lowest score in J.C. Deacon's 
three years as Florida's coach. "All five of our guys contrib-
uted in their own way this week, and the belief we have as a group 
is amazing," Deacon said in a re-lease. 
"This group really believes we 
can achieve some amazing things if we focus on what we're doing and what we can control."
Junior Alejandro Tosti out-
shot the field with an 8-under-par performance in just the second first-place finish of his collegiate 
career.Tosti carded a team best 16 
birdies over the course of three rounds and nailed the only eagle 
for the Gators on a par-4 8th hole in the second round. 
"(He) was huge for us," Dea- Men's golf places first, posts best score of Fall seasonKelly
SEE GOLF,  PAGE 15SEE ROUND PAGE 15Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
Tyrie Cleveland runs toward the end zone after catching a pass during Florida's 40-14 win over Missouri on Saturday. 
Cleveland is one of three freshmen receivers who have surprised with their contributions halfway through the season.14   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
Does golf really need Tiger Woods?
Practicing in his back-
yard, Tiger Woods swings to hit a flop shot and collapses in pain. He struck a 
nerve in his back. He’s on the ground, and he can’t move. He doesn’t have his cell-phone, and he can’t call any-one for help. 
Eventually, his daughter 
finds him.
“Daddy, what are you doing lying on 
the ground?” I said, “Sam, thank good-
ness you’re here. Can you go tell the guys inside to try and get the cart out, to help 
me back up?” She says, “What’s wrong?” 
I said, “My back’s not doing very good.” She says, “Again?” I say, “Yes, again, Sam. Can you please go get those guys?” 
(Tiger Woods 40th Birthday Interview - 
Time magazine). 
I loved Tiger. The two of us have great 
memories together. From conquering ca-reer mode in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2004 
on PC to watching him sink a 12-foot putt 
to stay alive on the last hole of the 2008 U.S. Open. The man’s a legend.
But while there’s no game clock in 
golf, Tiger’s time has expired. 
I’ll remember that 2008 putt forever 
because that’s the last time Tiger was Tiger. 
After going on to win that tournament, 
his 14th major before age 32, he never won another. 
And while he technically hasn’t re-
tired yet, I don’t feel uneasy about using 
the term never. He knows it too. 
When Tiger dropped out of last week’s 
Safeway Open, the magic number was 
extended to 14. It’s been 14 months since Tiger last started in a TOUR event, dating back to the 2015 Wyndam Championship. 
“After a lot of soul search-
ing, and honest reflection, I know that I am not yet ready to play on the PGA TOUR,” 
he told reporters.
Golf’s superhero had three 
surgeries in a 20-month span. 
The sport’s living legend sat 
out the entire 2015-16 season. 
And it’s not just his body that’s fail-
ing him. He’s been plagued by a myriad of off-the-course issues over the last de-cade. It wasn’t only the affair. When his 
father, a lieutenant colonel and Vietnam 
war veteran, died in 2006, Tiger secretly chased a fantasy of enlisting as a Navy SEAL well after the recruitment age. He’d jump out of planes and run miles in com-
bat gear. In July 2007, he announced he 
tore his ACL jogging, but his swing coach went on record saying Tiger had torn it in a combat simulator where he practiced 
clearing rooms and rescuing hostages. 
All I’m trying to say is, he’s had and 
still has a lot going on. And I don’t think 
risking his body and pressuring himself to live up to unreachable expectations is 
going to make him happier. 
“With all my heart, I do not want to 
stop playing golf,” he told Time. “But the 
flip side is, my kids’ lives are much more 
important to me. Now, if I can do both, 
that is an ideal world. It’s a win-win. If I can only do one, it wouldn’t be golf. It would be my kids. That’s still a win-win.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.orgDuring the 2005 Masters, 
I was standing near the edge of the 16th green at the Augusta National Golf Club with my fists 
clenched and my heart in my throat.
Off the left side of the green, 
Tiger Woods, who was fighting desperately to cling to the one-stroke lead he had over Chris DiMarco, was preparing to hit an extremely difficult chip shot. With laser-like focus, Woods stalked around the green, ana-
lyzing every possible blade of grass and slope 
in his path.
The crowd was so silent you could hear 
the wind gently whisper through the Georgia pines that towered over the hole. 
After contemplating every possible sce-
nario, Woods addressed his ball and struck, sending the ball toward the back of the green, about 30 feet left of the cup.
And as if it were being guided by God him-
self, the little white ball slowly trickled down the slope toward the hole. As the ball got clos-er and closer to its destination, my disbelief grew.
And as if this moment were a commercial 
designed by Nike, the ball teetered on the edge of the cup, flashing the Nike swoosh for all the world to see, before disappearing. 
Woods, in his traditional Sunday-red outfit, 
let out a roar almost as loud as the crowd’s and pumped his fist into the air, signaling one thing — this tournament was his.
I miss these moments. The moments 
where you realized that Tiger Woods was un-questionably the greatest golfer on the face of the planet.
Fast forward 11 years, one sex scandal, 
one divorce and who knows how many inju-ries later, the former No. 1 golfer in the world is a shell of himself, and he’s been absent from the world of golf for quite some time.
He hasn’t won since the 2013 PGA Tour 
season and hasn’t played in a tournament since the Hero World Challenge on Dec. 7, 2015.
With the rise of golfers like 
Jordan Spieth, Jason Day, Dustin Johnson and Rory McIlroy, the 
game has seemingly forgotten 
him.
A name that used to strike 
fear in the hearts of his oppo-nents, Woods has become an afterthought in sports conver-sations — not to mention the 
punchline of a few dirty jokes.
Woods was scheduled to return to golf at 
the Safeway Open last Thursday but with-drew from the event, stating that he wasn’t ready to compete.
So here’s my question: Tiger, will you ever 
be ready to compete?
It’s been far too long since the last time I 
flipped on the Golf Channel on a lazy Sunday afternoon and watched the man dressed in red and black compete. It’s been far too long 
since the last time I watched him sink a clutch 
putt, raise a trophy or put on another green jacket.
No, I don’t expect Tiger to win again, and 
I’m not saying he needs to.
But he does need to play again.Yes, his past is shady, and he’s definitely 
not the best role model, but that’s over and done with now. The point is, golf needs him.
In the history of the sport, no one has 
drawn in a crowd like Tiger Woods. No one has inspired more people to play golf than Tiger Woods. And no one has hit more jaw-dropping, awe-inspiring golf shots than Tiger Woods.
From the kid who personally witnessed 
your greatness on several occasions: Tiger, you don’t need to be the best anymore. That 
part of your life is long gone.
But one thing remains certain in my eyes.
Please come back, at least for a little while. 
The game needs you. 
@rboone1994
rboone@alligator.org
The Associated Press
Tiger Woods (left) congratulates Jordan Spieth during the Ryder Cup on Oct. 1, 
2016. 
The Associated Press
Tiger Woods watches a Stanford University football game on Oct. 8 , 2016. 
Yes, he makes the sport better No, it’s time to step aside
Matt Brannon
twitter: @ MattB_727
Ray Boone
twitter: @rboone1994HERE COMES THE BOONE THE POWERS MATT BEWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15
thing special here,” McElwain said.
Jordan: No (punt) return on 
investment
Antonio Callaway lit up the punt 
return game as a freshman.
As soon as the ball was in his 
grasp, the speedy wide receiver 
sliced, diced and torched the cover-age unit, each play a potential touch-down.  He ended the year returning two punts for touchdowns and aver-aged 15.5 yards per return — ﬁ  fth-
best in the nation.
This year, however, the punt 
return game has given Callaway 
problems. Six games into the sea-son, a combination of poor decision making and an inability to ﬁ  nd open lanes has caused him to struggle in a facet of his game where he should excel. 
On 14 returns so far this year, 
Callaway is averaging 2.9 yards per return. That’s the ﬁ  fth-worst in the country among qualiﬁ  ed players. Two of his returns have gone for negative yards. He fumbled two oth-ers inside the 10-yard line.The sophomore might have 
slightly redeemed himself late Sat-urday by returning an onside kick for a touchdown in the waning min-utes of Florida’s 40-14 homecoming win against Missouri, but that still doesn’t erase the fact that Callaway has mightily underachieved in the return game so far this season.
Ian: Jabari Zuniga, sack leaderCaleb Brantley. CeCe Jefferson. 
Bryan Cox.
All were expected to pile up sacks 
this season, and yet Brantley is the 
only one who has managed to bring 
an opposing quarterback down.
And then there’s redshirt fresh-
man Jabari Zuniga.
The guy was a three-star recruit 
out of high school and couldn’t get on the ﬁ  eld at UF last year because he wasn’t strong or big enough. One year later, he leads Florida and is tied 
for third in the SEC with ﬁ  ve sacks. 
He’s even forced a fumble.
How surprising is Zuniga’s emer-
gence along the defensive line? 
He has more sacks through six 
games than any defensive player has had at Florida through the same number of games since at least 2008, 
and that includes NFL Draft picks Dante Fowler Jr., Jonathan Bullard and Carlos Dunlap.
And while coaches and team-
mates were certainly impressed with Zuniga during the preseason, they deﬁ  nitely weren’t expecting this. Any sane spectator who knew any-thing about Florida football would have listed at least a handful of de-fensive linemen who would have more sacks than Zuniga at this point in the season. 
Hell, ﬁ  ve sacks for Zuniga’s entire 
season, let alone six games, would 
have exceeded everyone’s expecta-
tions. Only 10 UF players in the last eight years have had more sacks in a season than Zuniga has had through half of one.
So, yeah, you could say Jabari’s 
leap as the dominant force along the Gators’ defensive line has been (QB) hurried.
Arguing anything else would be 
sack-rilegious.Ethan: Perine outshining 
Thompson 
Florida needed help at running 
back entering the 2016 season. Badly. The Gators had just lost lead-ing rusher Kelvin Taylor to the NFL Draft, and they needed to ﬁ  nd a re-placement. 
Naturally, they ﬁ  rst looked in-
ward at a pair of rising sopho-mores in Jordan Scarlett and Jordan Cronkrite. But they needed more bodies. 
So they turned to recruiting, 
where coaches managed to land two prospects. 
First was Mark Thompson, a 
four-star, 6-foot-2, 237 pound junior college running back who was sup-posed to come in and contribute im-mediately. 
Then there was Lamical Perine, 
a three-star true freshman who was 
supposed to get buried on the depth 
chart by Thompson and the two Jor-dans. 
But six games into the season, it’s 
been Perine who’s made headlines 
and Thompson who’s struggled. 
While he doesn’t lead the team in 
rushing, Perine’s 300 yards are good 
for second-most. And his 6.25 yards-per-carry average ranks him as the team’s best. 
As for Thompson, the man who 
claimed he’d rush for 1,000 yards be-fore the team’s bye week — which is this week — is 738 yards short of his goal. 
Granted, that’s only 38 yards be-
hind Perine. But given the lofty ex-pectations he carried to Gainesville as a bruising, No. 1-rated back, it’s still entirely unexpected that he’d be outshined by a relatively unknown true freshman.  
What do you think has been 
the biggest surprise of UF’s season so far? Vote online at alligator.org/sports. 
ROUND,  from pg. 13Antonio Callaway has struggled to return punts this season
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Lamical Perine runs through a gap in the defense during Florida's 
40-14 homecoming win over Missouri on Saturday.
Emily Cochrane / Alligator Staff
Antonio Callaway fumbles a punt during Florida's 38-28 loss to T ennessee on Sept. 24 at Neyland Stadium. Callaway has muffed two punts inside the 10-yard line this season.
con said. 
"(He) played well from the 
start and carried it through the 
whole round."
While Tosti took center stage 
for Florida, a strong supporting 
cast helped the Gators ﬁ  nish with 
an 11-stroke lead over second 
place and No. 5-ranked Vander-bilt.
Sophomore Jorge Garcia ﬁ  n-
ished in a tie for seventh, where 
he shot 5 under par with 13 bird-
ies and eight bogeys.
After struggling in his last two 
tournaments, sophomore Sam 
Horsﬁ  eld logged a solid score for 
the Gators, tallying nine birdies and six bogeys, good for 10th place at 3 under par.Freshman Andy Zhang, com-
peting in his second tournament of the Fall, shot even par, good for a tie for 14th with 13 birdies, 11 bogeys and a double bogey.
And sophomore Gordon Neale 
ﬁ  nished at 5 over par in a tie for 30th. 
He carded nine birdies and 14 
bogeys. 
"We needed to ﬁ  nish the tour-
nament off and play the ﬁ  nal round, and I think we made a pretty big statement today," Dea-
con said. 
"There's no better way to go 
into the offseason than to put a 
big 'W' on the board."
@DreilingerJake
jdreilinger@alligator.org GOLF,  from pg13Horsield placed 10th
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff
Alejandro T osti tees off 
during the 2016 SunTrust 
Gator Invitational at the 
Mark Bostick Golf Course. 
T osti led Florida with a ﬁ  rst-
place ﬁ  nish at the T avistock 
Invitational on Tuesday.
16   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2016
By Alejandro López
Sports Writer
Nevermind a season-opening 12-
game road trip. 
Nevermind a Nov. 11 start date, one 
that will hopefully breed a campaign 
worthy of the Florida Gators women’s 
basketball team’s ﬁ  rst back-to-back 
NCAA Tournament appearance since 2001-02. 
Despite beginning organized practic-
es barely two weeks ago, UF is instead prepping for Jan. 1, 2017, when an af-
ternoon home game against Auburn at 
the newly minted Exactech Arena will kick off the squad’s Southeastern Con-ference slate. 
“Last year was a ridiculous year of 
strength for our league,” coach Amanda Butler said, “and I don’t think there will be any change this year. If anything, I think it will be an extra measure tough-
er.”
Based on the conference’s perfor-
mance last season, her claim might 
hold true.Nine out of 14 SEC teams made the 
NCAA Tournament, with four breaking into the Sweet 16. 
Including Florida, nine schools post-
ed conference winning percentages of .500 or greater, pointing to a level of parity that translates to tough competi-tion.
“It’s what draws great players to this 
league,” Butler said. 
“They want to test themselves 
against the best.”
And with ﬁ  ve new recruits in tow, 
UF will be aiming for triumph. 
Despite boasting the SEC’s highest-
scoring offense (77.4 points per game), the Gators ﬁ  nished tied for fourth in regular-season conference play with a record of 10-6, hampered by a defense 
that allowed 69.0 points per game, 
274th in the nation. 
Given that, it’s no wonder that, with 
defensive dynamo Simone Westbrook out long term with a knee injury, Butler has primarily focused UF’s preseason practices on generating a more bal-anced effort in its own court. “We always want to be competitive 
and aggressive, and we work really hard,” sophomore guard Eleanna Chris-tinaki said. 
“Everyone is a big part of our team, 
and we need everybody. If the team is successful, then everyone is success-ful.” 
With that team-centric approach, 
Christinaki and her teammates will look 
to clinch an SEC tournament title, the 
ﬁ  rst in program history. 
“We’ve got great coaching, tre-
mendous programs, the best student-athletes, I think, in the country. So we don’t expect it to be a soft year by any means,” Butler said. 
“We just want to be the best Florida 
Gators we can be.
“We feel like if we can do that, re-
gardless if it’s in conference or outside of conference, we’ve got a great chance to be successful.”
@ajlb95
alopez@alligator.org Butler: Strength of SEC last year “ri diculous”  
UF is looking to win its irst conference title ever
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Simone Westbrook holds a cutout of Amanda Butler’s 
head during the team’s 2016 Media Day. Westbrook will miss signiﬁ  cant time with a knee injury. 
A TRADITION OF INCONSISTENCY: 
SEC ﬁ  nishes under 
Amanda Butler
YEARSSEC FINISH 
12
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20161110987654321