We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 110 ISSUE 80 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
Fouls, missed free throws doom 
UF in loss against Texas A&M
They lost 71-68, pg. 13
Research roundup
Water puriﬁ  cation and pest control, pg. 3
UF student’s company donates clothes to kids
The clothing donation program is in Bangladesh, pg. 5A day in the life: Gainesville Edition
Check out our photostory, pgs. 8-9
Kali Kavouklis Wolf / Alligator
The owner of Wing Zone on University Avenue gives change to Chasen Barrett, a 19-year-old UF computer 
science student. Wing Zone will open a new location on the ground ﬂ  oor of the Reitz Union in early Febru ary.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
In 1991, two UF students started 
selling chicken wings in the kitchen 
of Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity.
Four months later, UF shut them 
down.
But this year, their chicken wings 
are coming back to UF.  
Wing Zone, the restaurant they 
founded in 1994, will join Orange and Brew on the Reitz Union’s ground ﬂ  oor, said Eddie Daniels, the executive director of the Reitz Union. It will open in early February 
with about 150 seats, more than 20 
televisions and a full menu.
“I’ll call this their ﬁ  rst formal en-
try on campus,” Daniels said with a laugh.
Matt Friedman and Adam 
Scott co-founded Wing Zone in Gainesville after their stunt in the fraternity house.
The two fraternity brothers start-ed cooking when they couldn’t ﬁ  nd a restaurant to get chicken wings late at night, Friedman said.
With no money and only a simple 
business plan, they began serving students from the kitchen of their fraternity, he said. They catered to students from 7 p.m. to 2 a.m., cre-
ating a late-night culture.
“It was like, crazy, how success-
ful it was,” the now-44-year-old 
said.
They sold wings and chicken 
tenders in different ﬂ  avors, offering late-night delivery, Friedman said.
When word reached UF, the two Wing Zone returns to UFSTATE
By Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
Two men arrested for murder 
in Alachua County are currently on death row, but Tuesday’s Su-preme Court ruling offers a slim chance to appeal.
The 8-1 ruling stated that 
Florida’s current system vio-
lates the right to a trial by jury 
afforded by the Sixth Amend-ment. The system gives the judge — not the jury — the final 
say in the sentencing process.
Danny Rolling, often referred 
to as the Gainesville Ripper, 
was executed in 2006, making him the last person from Ala-chua County to face the death 
sentence.
The Supreme Court ruling 
may affect the fate of Florida’s 
nearly 400 death-row inmates, but some legal experts said it would likely only affect inmates who have yet to use all of their initial appeals.
John Stinneford, a UF law 
professor, said some inmates will likely file motions asking for a new hearing.
“They would have a jury that 
would hear all the evidence and make a decision beyond a rea-sonable doubt,” he said.
In its decision, the Supreme 
Court sided with Timothy Lee 
Hurst, who was convicted in the 
1998 murder of his co-worker at a Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen restaurant in Pensacola.
A jury ruled in favor of the 
death penalty, but the judge sentenced Hurst to death using his own findings, dismissing the jury’s opinion.
Supreme Court Justice So-
nia Sotomayor, who wrote the decision Tuesday, said a judge 
cannot decide a capital pun-ishment case 
independently of a jury.
“The Sixth 
Amendment  requires a jury, not a judge, to find each fact 
necessary to impose a sentence of death,” she said.
In most courts, in order to 
sentence someone to death, a jury decides if there was an “ag-
gravating factor” that led to the 
crime, said Teresa Reid, a UF master legal skills professor.
But in Hurst’s case, the judge 
took control of the sentencing, all while staying within the boundaries of Florida law.
“That would be a surprise to 
a lot of people,” Reid said.
Reid said the court’s decision 
Tuesday was justified.
“It really is saying now you 
have a Sixth Amendment right to have the jury — not just a singular judge but to have a jury — determine whether or Florida death 
penalty system ruled unconstitutional
IT WILL BECOME ONE.UF
By Katelyn Newberg
Alligator Staff Writer
knewberg@alligator.org
@k_newberg
UF’s online system for class registration will 
be getting a new name and upgrade.
ISIS will become one.uf within the next few 
months, wrote UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes, 
in an email. Currently, students can use a beta version of the new website to ﬁ  nd courses more easily.
“We’ve spent the last two years preparing 
for the implementation of a new student sys-tem that will have many more capabilities than we currently have,” Sikes said. “The name change is just one phase of this implementa-tion.”
ISIS, which is more than 30 years old, need-
ed an upgrade, she said. Students can use ISIS to add and drop courses, order transcripts and 
view their degree audit.  “As you can imagine, the name ISIS can be 
found in a lot of places in print and online,” 
she said.
The acronym “ISIS” can also refer to the Is-lamic State of Iraq and the Levant, a terrorist organization started in 2013.
Raleigh Bevill, a UF English junior, said the 
UF website’s name change is a good idea. He said his mother was confused when she saw the website’s name on his laptop.
“She thought I was on a terrorist website,” 
the 21-year-old said. “I don’t even know what (the name) stands for.”
He said in addition to changing the name, 
UF should make the system easier to use for UF to upgrade and change name of online registration system
SEE WEB,  PAGE 4SEE WING ZONE,  PAGE 4 SEE PENALTY,  PAGE 4It was started by UF alums
“W e’ve spent the last two years 
preparing for the implementation 
of a new student system that will 
have many more capabilities than we 
currently have.”
Janine Sikes
UF spokeswomanSotomayor
Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 1105 W. University Ave. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 
2005. All rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without 
the written consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendarT oday’s Weather
NOONPM
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
National Women’s Liberation 
first general meeting
Join the Gainesville chapter of 
National Women’s Liberation 
(womensliberation.org) for its first general meeting of the year today from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. in Anderson Hall, Room 
117. Learn how you can get in-volved with NWL this year, and help plan the upcoming Roe v. Wade Anniversary Benefit 
and Women’s History Month 
event. Visit facebook.com/events/1535382480106237 for the Facebook event.
Kathleen Benson: Writing 
African- American Children’s LiteratureAward- winning children’s liter-
ature author Kathleen Benson 
will discuss her latest work, “Draw What You See,” a book on the life and art of Benny 
Andrews and Benson’s long ca-
reer writing African-American children’s literature and histo-ry today at 4 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100. Andrews 
was a noted African -American 
painter who interpreted suffer-ing and injustice, such as the Holocaust, Native American 
forced migration and Hurricane 
Katrina, in his creative works. Benson will discuss her col-laborations with Andrews and their work in social justice. 
The talk is part of the Baldwin 
Library Speaker Series.
Gators for UNICEF presents an 
evening on human traffick-ing awarenessGators for UNICEF will be kick-ing off the Spring semester with an evening dedicated to 
human trafficking awareness 
Thursday. It will begin at 6 p.m. in Matherly Hall, Room 107, with a brief introduction 
of what Gators for UNICEF has 
coming up this semester as well as light refreshments. At 6:30 p.m., Richard Tovar, president of the Alachua County Coalition 
Against Human Trafficking will 
be speaking about the work the coalition does and give us some more information on hu-
man trafficking, both locally 
and worldwide. Everyone is invited to participate in this important and informative dis-cussion! They hope to see you 
there!GatorNights
GatorNights will host a 1960s-
themed event, “A Decade that Changed Us,” on Friday from 8 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Reitz Union. The event will feature 
a Beatles cover band, a bun-
gee run and a ‘60s American Bandstand dance-off contest with prizes. The event will also 
feature two showings of “The 
Peanuts Movie” at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. in the Reitz Union Auditorium. The night will end with free pizza during Midnight 
Munchies. This event is free for 
UF students with their Gator 1 Cards. Attendees must be cur-rent students to participate. 
Students are allowed to bring a 
maximum of one guest to the event.
Family Movie Day
The Reitz Union will host Family Movie Day for UF graduate students and their families Saturday, starting 
at 1 p.m. in the Reitz Union 
Auditorium. The event will fea-ture free popcorn, crafts and coloring for kids at 1 p.m. and “The Peanuts Movie” at 2 p.m. 
hosted by Reitz Union Board 
Entertainment.
RecSports intramural soccer
Registration for RecSports men’s and women’s intramu-ral soccer closes Thursday at noon. Get a team of seven players together, and be ready 
to compete against the other 
students at UF. For more infor-mation, visit recsports.ufl.edu/events/soccer-m-w.
‘Breathe’
“Breathe,” the story of one man’s journey to live beyond the odds, comes to the Squitieri 
Studio Theatre, located in the 
West Wing of the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts, from Saturday to Sunday. Brennen 
Reeves just wanted to be nor-
mal. The only problem: a fatal lung disease — cystic fibrosis. The only solution: a double lung transplant. Hilarious and 
heartbreaking, this solo show 
presented by UF’s College of the Arts and College of Public Health and Health Professions 
will leave audiences moved 
and inspired. Co-created with David Lee Nelson, “Breathe” is written and performed by Reeves, a 2014 graduate of the College of Charleston.
2016 International Brass 
Festival: Year of the TrumpetThe UF School of Music is pleased to present the 2016 
International Brass Festival: 
Year of the Trumpet at the UF School of Music from Jan. 23 to Jan. 25. The three-day event 
will feature internationally 
recognized guest artists Luis Araya, Roger Blackburn, the Gainesville Brass Quintet and the Potsdam Brass Quintet. The 
festival, which is free and open 
to the public, includes numer-ous master classes and recitals and is open to musicians of all 
ages.
The Jews of Mexico: History, 
Culture and Libraries
Enrique Chmelnik Lubinsky, 
the director of the Center of 
Documentation and Research for the Jewish Communities in Mexico, will speak Thursday 
at 5:30 p.m. in the Judaica 
Suite inside the Grand Reading Room on the second floor of Smathers Library. The talk is sponsored by the Isser and 
Rae Price Library of Judaica, 
the Latin American and Caribbean Collection of the George A. Smathers Libraries, 
the Center for Latin American 
Studies, the Alexander Grass Chair in Jewish Studies, the Center for Jewish Studies Gary Gerson Lecture Series and the 
National Endowment for the 
Humanities.
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgracehenley@alliga-tor.org. To ensure publication 
in the next day’s newspaper, 
please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your sub-missions after above events, 
and keep them to 150 words 
or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submis-sions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not 
appear in the paper.
2   ALLIGATOR   WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
VOLUME 110 ISSUE 80
HIGH  61° LOW  36°AM
Local Events / News in BriefNEWSROOM
352-376-4458   Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Ariana Figueroa, aﬁ  gueroa@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print Mary Grace Henley, 
mgracehenley@alligator.org    
Managing Editor / Online Emily Cochrane, ecochrane@alligator.org
Metro Editor Giuseppe Sabella, gsabella@alligator.org
University Editor Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Zach Schlein, opinions@alligator.org
Sports Editor Ian Cohen, icohen@alligator.org   
Assistant Sports Editor   Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor Luis T orres, ltorres@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Emily Cochrane, Ariana Figueroa, Mary   
  Grace Henley, Zach Schlein   
Photo Editor Aaron Albright, photo@alligator.org
Assistant Photo Editor  Andres Leiva, photo@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Laura Gomez, avenue@alligator.org
Assistant Avenue Editor  Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org  
Copy Desk Chiefs Mia Gettenberg, Melissa Smith
Copy Editors Jessica Gonzalez, Kristine Janata, 
  Michael Smith, Joshua Warner, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482   800-257-4341   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Retail Manager  William Campbell, 
  wcampbell@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Jordan Thurn
 Sales Representatives T aylor Boyce, Sydnie Kennedy,
  Stephen Kim, Eric Koblick, 
  Christian Mayorga, Ana Puyana, 
  Isabella Rodriguez, Eva Sailly,     
  Christopher Winner
 Advertising Clerks  Elena Chow, Jordan Thurn, T ori Wienke
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND   Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446   Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Evan Walker, ewalker@alligator.org
 Assistant Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg, 
  astolzenberg@alligator.org
 Advertising Production Staff  Evin Ershock, Maria Hyde, 
  Fernanda Martinez
 Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Vanessa PuelloWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   3
New study makes it easier for 
pest control to trap mosquitoes 
UF researchers have found that the Asian tiger 
mosquito is attracted to ﬂ  owering butterﬂ  y bushes, 
giving pest control ofﬁ  cials another way to trap the insects.
They observed containers of different sizes, which 
they placed in various locations including backyards in Gainesville, said Phil Kaufman, an associate profes-sor of entomology and researcher at UF.
Researchers wanted to see if these mosquitoes pre-
ferred to lay eggs in a speciﬁ  c-sized container or if they were  more attracted to ﬂ  owering butterﬂ  y bushes. 
They placed the containers next to butterﬂ  y bushes 
with and without ﬂ  owers.
The Asian tiger mosquito takes sugar from the but-
terﬂ  y bush ﬂ  owers prior to laying its eggs, Kaufman said.
By narrowing down the fragrances that attract the 
mosquitoes, pest control ofﬁ  cials may be able to trap more of them, reducing the spread of potential dis-eases, Kaufman said.
Researchers found that the Asian tiger mosquito 
prefers to lay eggs in large containers next to ﬂ  ower-ing butterﬂ  y bushes.
“If we have a way of doing a better job of attracting 
the egg-laying mosquitoes that are potentially infect-ed, then we have an improved chance of interrupting a disease transmission cycle,” Kaufman said.
 - Chelsea Hansen
HELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDHELPHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPWANTEDHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPWANTEDHELPWANTEDWANTEDHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPHELPWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTEDWANTED
Sales InternSales Representative
Resume builderGain sales experience
Learn prospecting skills
Personalized classroom training
First-hand sales experienceFlexible schedule
No weekends
Minimum 10-hour work weekImprove communication skillsImprove communication skills
Email resume to Ms. Jordan Thurn at
intern@alligator.orgSale/s.end Representative/s.end an/d.end Inter/n.end 
p/o_sition/s.end availabl/e.end for Sprin/g.end 2016
Email resume to Shaun O’Connor at
soconnor@alligator.org
*Must be enrolled in spring classes at UF or Santa Fe to applypreserve waterREDUCE YOUR SHOWERTIME
BY 2 MINUTESMine water purified more quickly 
using electric fields
A UF professor has found a faster way to purify 
water used in mining.
Mark Orazem, a UF professor of chemical engi-
neering, said he wanted to make separating leftover 
clay from water used an easier process. The clay will naturally separate from the water over time, but this can take anywhere from 25 to 50 years.
When mining companies remove ores from the 
ground, they use water to separate what they need for fertilizer, he said. This produces a stream of wa-ter that contains the leftover solids, including clay.
The deposits of clay and water sit in dams until 
this happens.
“They have a lot of these in the Tampa-Orlando 
area,” Orazem said.
Because clay has charged particles, he used an 
electric ﬁ  eld to draw the clay from the water, a pro-cess that took about two hours.
Orazem said while he hopes his research will re-
duce any environmental impact the clay could have while sitting in dams, the full impact of the study is 
yet to be seen.
“It’s hard for me to tell right now,” Orazem said.
- Caitlin OstroffRESEARCH ROUNDUPSome may 
appeal their 
cases4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
got in trouble, he said. They got to 
stay at UF, but their chicken service had to leave.
But it wasn’t the end of their 
business.
After graduating from UF in 1994, 
Friedman and Scott opened up the first Wing Zone at 923 W. University Ave., with college students as their first customers, Friedman said.
Over the next five years, they 
opened six other locations in col-lege towns, he said. But their next 
location will bring Wing Zone to the 
Reitz Union.Orange and Brew, which will 
serve beer and wine, will have memorabilia from UF’s past, Daniels said. He said UF is excited to see the two restaurants come together, and he hopes students will enjoy it.
Tyler Plummer, 18, said he first 
heard of Wing Zone when he and his friends were hunting for food 
deals online.
Since then, they ordered from 
Wing Zone every Wednesday night 
for the buy 20 chicken wings, get 10 free deal, the UF finance sophomore said. He said he’s excited for Wing Zone to come to UF.
“It’s good for business to go back 
to its roots,” he said. “They have the atmosphere, they have entertain-ment and obviously they’d have the food.”
Friedman said he wants to give 
students a place to go without hav-ing to leave campus.
“The coolest thing about this is, 
you know, this is where we started,” he said, referring to UF. “It’s just got 
a very special place in our brand.”
Friedman said opening a Wing 
Zone at UF meant more to him than 
Wing Zone’s other locations.
“This is probably the most im-
portant restaurant we’ve ever built,” he said. “We’re building something that I think is going to blow students away.” 
WING ZONE,  from pg 1They founded Wing Zone in 1994
class registration. He said he would like to be able to read class descriptions and teacher in-formation before registering for a course.
“If you could see that beforehand, it would 
be way better,” Bevill said.
Rebekah Clow, a UF telecommunication 
sophomore, said she always types the ISIS website name quickly in case someone is watching.
“It was always in the back of my mind that 
people would think that was strange,” the 20-year-old said. “Just the word ISIS offends some people.”
She said using the website can be hard for 
incoming freshmen to become accustomed to. When Clow was a freshman, she said she had to see an academic adviser to learn how to navigate the site.
“There’s a bit of a learning curve,” Clow 
said. “Hopefully the upgrade will help.”
She said the new name, one.uf, would be easier to find online. She said UF should up-date the name of the site to avoid offending parents and students.“I kind of anticipated it was coming,” she 
said. “I understand why they need to be sensi-tive about that.”
WEB,  from pg 1ISIS has been used for more than 30 yearsPRESIDENT OBAMA REFLECTED ON 
PAST, FOCUSED ON FUTURE.
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Members of UF College Democrats gathered at Pugh 
Hall on Tuesday night to hear President Barack Obama 
deliver his final State of the Union address.
Reflecting on the last seven years, Obama looked 
back on his self-proclaimed achievements, including an 
improved economy, the Iran nuclear deal and efforts to 
end gun violence.
Obama also focused on the future.
He promised to finish his presidency by working to 
bridge a bipartisan Congress, improve economic equal-
ity and continue to push forward a proposal to make the 
first two years of community college free.
“We passed the Affordable Care Act. Over 16 mil-
lion new Americans are now insured, and that’s huge,” Amir Avin, a 21-year-old UF finance senior, said. “And 
he’s made a lot of other sweeping reforms that have im-
proved the lives of Americans today.” 
Seven years of partisan bickering and failed initia-
tives were not evident in Obama’s speech, even as news broke hours earlier that 10 U.S. sailors were being held 
by Iran. Instead, Obama spoke optimistically about his 
plans and hopes for the future.
Returning to the community college proposal, Obama said he would continue efforts to get the plan started this 
year.
“We have to make college affordable for every Amer-
ican,” he said.
Later addressing the fight against the Islamic State, 
Obama urged Congress to pass an authorization of war on the extremist group. He also stressed that America should avoid acting as the world’s police force when try-ing to keep the U.S. and its allies safe.
Critics have condemned the president for what they 
call a weak response to the attacks in Paris and San Ber-nardino, California, which ISIS inspired and organized. Obama went on to criticize people who called for a ban 
blocking Muslim refugees from entering the U.S. follow-
ing the terror attacks.
“When politicians insult Muslims, whether abroad or 
our fellow citizens, when a mosque is vandalized or a kid is called names, that doesn’t make us safer. That 
isn’t telling it like it is,” he said. “It’s just wrong. It di-
minishes us in the eyes of the world.”
Obama also pushed for clean energy as an alternative 
to coal and fossil fuels. He also praised the Paris Agree-ment on climate change reached last year.
“I stand here as confident as I have ever been that 
the State of our Union is strong,” Obama said as he con-
cluded.
The crowd in Pugh Hall stood and clapped, and the 
UF College Democrats’ treasurer reflected on the speech.
“Perfect,” Chris Reilly, a 20-year-old UF political sci-
ence junior said. “It reminded me of why I voted for him last time.”UF Democrats react to State of UnionCOMMISSION
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
A few dozen Gainesville resi-
dents attended District 4 Commis-
sion Candidate Adrian Hayes-San-tos’ first fundraiser of 2016 at his friend’s house Tuesday night.
The 30-year-old entrepreneur 
promises to protect neighbor-
hoods, promote the downtown 
economy, preserve the natural environment, expand affordable high-speed broadband, improve 
transportation, lower Gainesville 
Regional Utility rates, fight for in-come equality and support Grace Marketplace.
As the youngest candidate in 
the race, his youth offers an ad-vantage: the ability to tackle issues and improve the city’s downtown economy and livelihood in poten-
tially innovative ways.
Hayes-Santos faces landlord 
Jim Konish for the District 4 Com-
mission. Randy Wells currently holds the position but is finishing his term length.
Hayes-Santos’ experience in-
cludes positions on the Gainesville City Beautification Board, Regional Transit System Board, the Down-town Community Redevelopment Agency Board and the Alachua County Business and Economic Growth Task Force.
“I’m passionate about our 
city,” he said during a speech. He primarily focused on expanding downtown.
“We need to make downtown 
the focal point of our city,” he said.
Hayes-Santos said the city 
needs to expand programs in the area, which could entice people to stay by creating opportunities for jobs and recreation.
His young age has made him 
successful with some UF students, who see him as a relatable candi-date who cares about issues im-portant to their lives.
“His plan has always been to 
reach out to as many students that are willing to listen and to kind of cast a wide net as far as diverse people participating within the campaign,” said David Arreola, Hayes-Santos’ campaign manager and a UF alumnus, at a candidate forum Monday night.
Arreola described Hayes-Santos 
as a public servant.
“He wants the message of a lo-
cal candidate to actually address what matters to students and what could garner their interest a little bit,” Arreola said.
That means addressing issues 
like broadband and transportation, but also more complex issues that students might not know about — like GRU rates.
This is especially important for 
a city with low voter turnouts and students who are aren’t active in politics, Arreola said.
Financial records from October 
through December show Hayes-Santos raised about $10,300 in do-nations as of press time, which is more than Konish, who collected about $2,260.
His supporters include Alach-
ua County Commissioner Robert Hutchinson; Gainesville City Com-
missioners Helen Warren and Har-
vey Budd; and former city com-missioner Susan Bottcher.Commission Candidate 
Adrian Hayes-Santos holds fundraiser
Courtesy  to the Alligator
A screenshot showing the new one.uf system, which will go into effect in the next 
few months.
not you’re going to live or you’re going to 
die,” Reid said.
About 25 miles north of Gainesville, in 
Starke, Michael Ray Lambrix, 55, awaits his death in Florida State Prison.
His execution is scheduled for Feb. 11.Lambrix received the death sentence af-
ter authorities said he murdered two peo-ple in 1983. After several failed appeals by Lambrix, Gov. Rick Scott signed his death warrant in November.
“And then that clock begins to tick 
away,” Lambrix wrote in a blog post last June.PENALTY,  from pg 1“W e need to make downtown 
the focal point of our city”
Adrian Hayes-Santos
District 4 Commission CandidateWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
UF student senators from both parties gave 
their thanks to Michael Christ (Graduate, Ac-
cess) at his last meeting Tuesday night.
Christ joined Student Government as a Students Party senator for Murphree Area in Fall 2013. He left two and a half years later as a graduate senator with Access Party.
During his time in Senate chambers, he 
was the last member of Students Party and was one of the founders of Access in Spring 2015. He spoke against the expansion of SG’s 
budget and was against reforms to the Stu-
dent Body statutes during Summer 2015.In his goodbye speech, he said he hopes 
SG will start doing online voting in the future.
“It will come, eventually. It may not hap-
pen this year, it may not happen next year, but it’s going to happen,” he said. 
“We should all want more people voting,” 
he said.  
Senate President Susan Webster (District 
A, Impact) said she had a lot of respect for Christ.
“Senator Christ is somebody who’s been 
a huge impact in Senate. Beyond UF and the Senate, I know he’s going to do great things,” she said.
Student Body President Joselin Padron-
Rasines teared up as she spoke about Christ.
“Thank you so much for the service you 
provided for the Student Body,” she said.Access Party founder says goodbye at his final Senate
FUNDING FOR CLUBS 
WAS PASSED.
By Melissa Gomez
Alligator Staff Writer
mgomez@alligator.org
@Melissagomez004
UF Student Government held 
Tuesday night’s Senate meeting in the Samuel P. Harn Museum of Art.
Representatives from the Harn, 
the Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory and UF Performing Arts spoke 
during the meeting, giving SG their thanks for financial awards that have helped increase ticket numbers.
Allison VanDenend, assistant di-
rector of development for the Harn, said the award money has helped increase the number of students who go to the museum through the 
free student membership program, 
which started in 2013 and was fund-ed by SG.
“We’re so grateful for your sup-
port,” VanDenend said. “It really makes a world of difference to stu-dents. We’re defining new things, breaking boundaries.”Darcie MacMahon, the exhibits 
and public programs director at the Florida Museum of Natural History, said the $72,425 award SG gave the museum last year has increased the number of students that attend the 
museum.
She said about one third of the UF 
Student Body attended the museum 
during the 2014-2015 year.
“We’re delighted to have students 
coming through,” MacMahon said.
Passed by Unanimous Consent:
• Approval of Jasmine Salinas-
Corona, vice chancellor of Student Honor Code Admin-istration
• $970.00 funding for the Bhangra Club
• $2,801.00 funding for Fashion Forward
• $231.24 funding for the Inno-vation Academy Lead
• Resolution approved for Com-mending Graduate Assistants United for Representing the Interests of Graduate Assis-tants and Successfully Negoti-ating with UF AdministrationUF Senate meets with UF arts programs
Andres Leiva/Alligator Staff
Sen. Michael Christ (Graduate, Access) hugs Student Body Presi-
dent Joselin Padron-Rasines on Tuesday night at Christ’s last Sen-ate meeting.
By Nicole LaReau
Alligator Contributing Writer
A UF student is expanding his 
clothes donation program in Ban-gladesh.
Robert Felder founded Bear-
bottom Clothing, an online cloth-ing company, in 2014 after a trip to Bangladesh. During the trip he toured a local factory and it in-spired him to start his company, which donates a pair of shorts to a child in Bangladesh for every pair bought, the 21-year-old said.
The company now donates 
shorts to children in poverty all 
over the country, from hospitals 
in Dhaka, the capital of Bangla-desh, to train stations in poorer areas, he said. When Felder first started the company, only factory workers’ children received the shorts.
He chose to have his factory 
in Bangladesh to give jobs to the 
community, the UF business man-
agement and food and resource economics senior said.
“To date, we’ve donated tens 
of thousands of shorts, which, to 
put into perspective, is more than the number of people that fill the O’Dome,” Felder said.
Jacob Visoky, 22, said he likes 
the concept behind the company.“I think it’s important for new 
companies to have a sense of cor-
porate and social responsibility — 
to give back to the communities 
that are helping to manufacture their products,” the UF business management senior said.
Felder said he plans to con-
tinue expanding his company and his mission after he graduates next Fall.
“I want to retain the mission of 
donating shorts to kids in need,” 
he said.UF student’s company donates clothes to kidsBy Martin Vassolo
Alligator Staff Writer
mvassolo@alligator.org
@martindvassolo
Gainesville Police arrested a 
woman Monday night after po-
lice said she assaulted a 93-year-old nursing home resident.
At about 8 p.m. Monday, Ash-
ley Michelle Greek, 25, pulled an 
elderly woman down the hall-
way of the Brookdale Gainesville 
Southwest senior center, accord-
ing to a police report.
Greek works as a nursing as-
sistant at the center, located in the 1000 block of SW 
62nd Blvd., according to 
the report.
After fail-
ing to walk 
the woman 
to her room, Greek grabbed the woman’s arm and bent it be-hind her back, according to the report.
Once in the room, one of 
Greek’s co-workers saw her twisting and yanking the elderly woman in an attempt to put her in bed, according to the report.
The woman fell to her knees 
before kicking Greek in the stomach. Greek then grabbed the woman’s leg and pushed it back until her knee touched her 
stomach, according to the report.
Another co-worker told po-
lice he heard the woman yelling.
After forcing the woman onto 
her bed, Greek “aggressively” 
changed the woman’s under-wear by pushing her legs up to her head, according to the re-port.
Greek said she was frustrated 
the whole day because no one would help her deal with the woman, according to the report.
Police charged Greek with 
battery on a person 65 years or 
older and took her to the Alach-
ua County Jail where she was re-leased on her own recognizance Tuesday afternoon.Nurse 
assaults 93-year-old
By Hunter Williamson
Alligator Staff Writer
hwilliamson@alligator.org
@hunterewilliam
Florida’s 2016 legislative session started Tues-
day, bringing in hundreds of bills – two of which 
could waive fees and tuition for graduate assis-tants at state universities.
State Senate Bill 1230 and House Bill 1311 
were introduced in the House and Senate on Tuesday as the legislature’s annual two-month session started. Both bills require state univer-sities to waive fees and tuition for graduate as-sistants who meet certain requirements. If ap-proved, both bills will take effect July 1.
The Senate bill was referred to the Higher Ed-
ucation, Appropriations Subcommittee on Educa-tion and Appropriations committees Monday.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes wrote in an 
email that it’s too early to speculate how the bills might affect the university.
John Hames, a former co-president of UF’s 
Graduate Assistants United, said GAU hopes the bills will pass.
“We don’t know what the outcome will be, 
but we really appreciate that we have people in the Senate and House who recognize the prob-lem of graduate employment fees,” the 34-year-old said.
Alec Dinnin, a co-president of GAU, wrote in 
an email that they will support Sen. Maria Lorts Sachs and Rep. Michelle Rehwinkel Vasilinda, who filed the bills in the legislature, while also continuing their own efforts.
“I would love for progress to be made in the 
legislature, no doubt about it, and I’m cautious-ly optimistic. But at the same time, I know that we have to keep conducting our own operations 
here,” Dinnin said.Florida bills could waive some fees and tuition CRIME
“I want to retain the mission 
of donating shorts to kids in 
need.” 
Robert Felder
Bearbottom Clothing founderIt’s for graduate assistants Greek
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnReﬂ  ecting on the 
State of the Union
With Tuesday night’s State of the Union address, the 
Obama presidency informally began its ﬁ  nal act.
Possessing the self-assurance of a man who 
knows he has nothing left to prove (because, well, he kind of doesn’t), President Obama delivered a 
speech that was almost as much of a victory lap as it was a genuine, critical assessment of where our nation stands. As is customary with these sort of things, Obama rattled off the accomplishments, hopes and goals he wants to see realized in the coming year, in addition to discussing the issues that de-ﬁ  ned 2015. Despite looking to the future, the speech harkened back to the very thing the president ran his ﬁ  rst campaign on: change.
Among the changes discussed were those to the economy 
(good!), changes concerning the ever-evolving nature of inter-national threats (bad!), changes to how wealth is distributed in this country (we’ll believe it when we see it) and, perhaps most relevant of all, changing a broken immigration system (good luck with that, seeing as your administration is current-ly conducting somewhat-frightening raids to kick people out). 
He even managed to sneak in a few not-so-subtle digs at 
“Back to the Future” villain and presidential candidate Donald Trump. Decrying politics of fear, Obama emphasized looking 
forward rather than trying to “restore past glory” has always 
been the American way. Debateable though the point may be, it’s a far more tasteful alternative than whatever product Trump is peddling.
It’s debatable how much of the swagger, conﬁ  dence and 
charm displayed by Obama was earned. Between pitching the Trans-Paciﬁ  c Partnership to an American public that doesn’t know better or crucially omitting the fraught race relations dominating today’s headlines and think pieces, Obama often 
omitted the unsavory aspects of what the nation is facing un-
der his presidency. However, he did manage to acknowledge that “the rancor and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better” under his watch.
To call the Obama presidency divisive would be a gross 
understatement. Since taking ofﬁ  ce in 2008, the U.S. has un-dergone more splits in rhetoric, more polarization and more existential crises than any one country ought to grapple with in its entire existence. Whether you think Obama himself is 
directly responsible for this probably depends on your politi-
cal persuasion.
Laying all of the blame at his feet is also tied to height-
ened expectations. It is difﬁ  cult to separate President Barack Obama, the man, from Sen. Barack Obama, the promise. Hard though it may be to believe, we students were only high schoolers at the time of his ﬁ  rst election (it’s even harder to believe, for upperclassmen, that some of us were in middle school). In a country drunk on optimism, as up to 53 percent 
of the U.S. Electoral College was in 2008, its intoxicating ef-
fects may have hit us, the impressionable, excitable youth, the hardest.
State of the Union addresses, like the faith we place in our 
politicians, need to be processed with reservations and critical eyes. For those who are politically vocal, ignore the outra-geous social media posts on both sides and strive for the more accurate assessment that lies somewhere in between: There’s a reason the phrase “happy medium” exists.
Ignoring the bipartisan disagreements and putting aside 
any impressions — good, bad or indifferent — last night’s address may have left with you, we at least hope we can all agree the chanting of “O-BAM-A! O-BAM-A!” before the PO-TUS speaks is tragically unhip at worst and corny at best.Color me happy: the rise of adult coloring books
I’d like to thank everyone who emailed me last 
week about my column’s new literary focus. I greatly appreciate the support and the inter-est. In the future, if you’d like to email me with column suggestions, please direct your 
emails to sbg_column@aol.com.
We’re beginning this literary column by dis-
cussing a bookish topic that many have likely seen falling off the shelves recently: the color-ing book. Far from being limited to the childish Disney princess and toy truck editions of the activity books that populated my childhood, coloring books have recently boomed into a proﬁ  table industry for all age groups, perhaps even focusing more on adults than children.
“Secret Garden” by Johanna Basford, a gloriously detailed 
coloring book marketed for adults, was published in 2013, and it has since become increasingly popular, selling more than 10 million copies. Basford has since released two more books in her imaginative, intricately designed coloring portfo-lio, “Enchanted Forest” and “Lost Ocean.”
Personally, I would have never thought coloring books 
could be such best-sellers and draw so many people to their pages, but few would deny that Basford books are fun to look 
at. They break the mold of children’s coloring books, which 
typically have loud, shiny covers for small, sticky ﬁ  ngers to grab and paper-thin pages to hang on the refrigerator.
In contrast, Basford’s books and the many variations and 
expansions upon them that other adult-coloring-book artists have used to stock bookstore shelves, seem professionally artistic rather than juvenile. They embody the escape into a purely imaginative world that perhaps adults are more inter-ested in searching for than most of us would care to admit.
Much of the appeal of these coloring books lies in this 
escape for the reader. Enthusiasts of the trend claim coloring books work like a kind of soothing therapy, a break from an otherwise hectic life and a magical de-stressing device.
I also enjoy the reassuringly non-consequential act of us-
ing an adult coloring book, and I see other students at UF obsessing over them as well. In comparison to directing fo-cus on an essay to write or a test to study for, it’s somehow greatly relaxing to know the only thing that can go wrong while one colors is the possibil-ity of straying outside the lines.
However, this brings us to perhaps the other 
side of the adult-coloring-book craze. Books from 
Basford and others like her encourage readers to 
think creatively while still providing careful limits to this imagination. In a metaphorical sense for our society, coloring outside the lines has often been challenged. This is doubly interesting when 
one takes a peek into the history of the adult coloring book. Although the current-day best-sellers seemed to pop up over-night, coloring books marketed for adults have seen spikes in popularity throughout the 1900s, and they were for a different 
purpose than today’s creative therapy outlets.
In the 1960s, popular coloring books reﬂ  ected a subtle par-
ody of American values and stereotypes of the time. An article 
by the New Republic investigates these coloring books, show-casing ones such as “The Executive Coloring Book,” created by three advertising salespeople reminiscent of “Mad Men.” The book shows pictures of an executive businessman going through a day at the ofﬁ  ce but is captioned by words far more grim. “This is my suit. Color it gray or I will lose my job,” is 
one example. Other captions also make parodies out of the 
unfeeling adman motif with increasing bitterness.
“The Executive Coloring Book” was not the only such 
book that poked fun at society. Other extremely popular books at the time criticized political ﬁ  gures and ridiculed communists — or those afraid of communists. Politicized and caricatured, adults rarely colored in the main character and his gray suit but instead used him as a way to take a stance on current issues.
Political coloring books eventually lost prominence when 
their jokes started to fall ﬂ  at. However, as we cycle back through time to the coloring book’s return to popularity, it seems fruitful to ponder what the future of this delicately imagined industry might hold.
Sally Greider is an English and public relations junior. Her 
column appears on Wednesdays.
Ariana Figueroa
EDITORMary Grace Henley
Emily Cochrane
MANAGING EDITORSZach Schlein
OPINIONS EDITORWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/opinions
Sally Greider
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   7
“You like potato and I 
like potahto,
You like tomato 
and I like tomahto,
Potato, potahto, 
tomato, tomahto.”
"Let’s Call the Whole Thing 
Off" by George and Ira Gershwin
Every aspect of language is 
governed by choices. These choic-es, which might be made in a mil-lisecond, affect everything from the articulation of an individual sound all the way to the stringing together of hundreds of 
sounds to form a phrase.
Granted, many of these choices are made 
unconsciously or have already been made for 
us before we even learn language.
Starting at the most obscure level, it can 
be argued that the language we learn as a mother tongue is decided by the whims of fate. While we are predisposed as humans to learn language, no one is predisposed 
to learn a speciﬁ  c language, like Italian or 
Xhosa. Hence, the place and tradition into which one is dropped by the proverbial stork represents, inadvertently, the culmination of choices stemming from the beginning of hu-man history. Pretty trippy, if you ask me.
Equally fascinating is the fact that every 
region and subregion of the planet repre-sents thousands of years' worth of linguistic 
traditions and innovations. Between the in-
ventory of several hundred sounds every hu-man is capable of producing at birth and the different grammatical conﬁ  gurations, every language selects a subset of what is possible, i.e., the choices “made for us.” Linguists la-ment: Why couldn’t English be pro-drop?!
In the critical acquisition period we learn 
to recognize and distinguish the speciﬁ  c 
sounds of our native language(s), and ac-
quire a speciﬁ  c dialect, usually tied to our region. Furthermore, as a product of social-ization and acculturation, we develop certain markers of our identity — many of them lin-guistic — as we ﬁ  nd our place within various sectors of society.
This is why our deliberate choices are so 
crucial within language production.
The most basic unit of language is that of 
the phone or phoneme. This is the smallest unit of sound one can pronounce and per-ceive, such as the sound represented by the letters <ng> in the word ‘morning.’ So, a choice between the “-ing” sound and the “-in” sound (i.e., “morning” vs. “mornin’”) makes a difference in how my speech and identity are perceived. Pay special attention to the variation between these two sounds, as we all use both, often choosing unconscious-ly between them per the speciﬁ  cs 
of the scenario.
The next unit is that of the 
morpheme — the smallest unit 
of meaning —  such as the sound represented by the letters <ing>, which signify the present progres-sive aspect of English. Interest-
ingly, English is currently undergoing a shift: the past participle form, e.g., “I have swum,” 
is being replaced by the past tense form, e.g., 
“I have swam.” Since both are now possi-ble utterances for expressing the past, it is likely the use of the ﬁ  rst form will increas-ingly serve as a marker of a higher register of speech and be perceived as snobby, even though it is correct in "standard English."
The next level of linguistic complexity 
is that of the morpheme combinations that 
constitute words and phrases. To cut to the 
chase, one perceives very quickly the crucial distinctions between “I don’t have any” and “I ain’t got none” and sees how choosing be-tween different grammatical structures, even within the same language, is crucial to deﬁ  n-ing identity and making a speciﬁ  c point in a particular way.
Prussian philosopher and philologist 
Wilhelm von Humboldt asserted brilliantly that language makes “inﬁ  nite use of ﬁ  nite means,” which is to say that, per a relatively small set of sounds and means of combin-ing them, we are able to produce an inﬁ  nite number of linguistic entities. Furthermore, per the brilliance of the human brain, we can, according to Noam Chomsky, compre-hend any utterance — provided it stems from 
"universal grammar."
So, in our daily use of language, we ought 
to conceive of the choices with which we 
are faced, whether between speciﬁ  c units of sounds, units of meaning or entire phrases — not as limitations or points of distinction, but rather as inﬁ  nite potential.
For how enthralling the phenomenon of 
human language is, we should not take such 
an ability for granted, as we are the species 
most and best equipped for communicating through speech. 
So, keep speaking, and remember: deci-
sions, decisions!
Jordan MacKenzie is a second-year UF 
linguistics master’s student. His column ap-pears on Wednesdays.Language is all about our choicesColumn
Do you remember the ﬁ  rst 
few weeks of elemen-tary school? Because, when looking at the other side of the globe, 
it seems like some leaders forgot life lessons taught to them when they were children.
Like many important cur-
rent events around the world, recent events in Asia have been mottled with varying opinions and sources. The good thing is, it can be summed up in a relatively simple theoretical playground setting. You see, there’s this Kim Jong-un kid. And Kim Jong-un, a little smaller than the big kids, has always been a problem child. He just wants to show off, cutting corners in the process and therefore getting ahead of himself in becoming a big boy. Now, the other kids would put Kim Jong-un in his place if it weren’t for his best friend: China. China got his growth spurt recently, so now China is one of those kids who likes to throw sand in other kids’ eyes whenever they question his authority. But mostly, he does so because he can.    
There are some slight differences from 
the reality of this situation. In real life, Kim Jong-un, the dictator of North Korea, is the leader of millions of starving citizens. He also works to progress his country’s abil-ity to develop nuclear weapons. Whether it was actually a hydrogen bomb, the bottom line is that Kim Jong-un is attempting to place billions of lives in danger and break every international treaty on nuclear weap-ons in the process. Yet, the rest of the world can’t do a thing about it.
Usually when you break the playground 
rules, you have to sit in timeout or are prohibited altogether from having fun on the democratic and peaceful seesaw. The United Nations Security Council has drafted a resolution in response to North Korea’s nuclear testing that delivers heavy sanc-tions upon the country. Like Iran, like Rus-sia, like Syria, the sanctions probably aren’t going to do much good here, either. How-ever, according to The New York Times, as China and North Korea have been strong allies for six decades straight, China would very likely be the deciding factor in per-suading North Korea to abandon its nuclear program.
The problem is that China 
is not going to push North Ko-rea in the right direction — not because of complex yet rational reasoning, but because of men-talities many of us learned about back in kindergarten. People can use as much jargon as they want to about China and North Korea having strong economic ties, but 
the world’s second largest economy doesn’t rely on a highly underdeveloped country for trade. In fact, according to China Daily, China’s economic relationship with South Korea is worth billions of dollars more than that with North Korea. Therefore, China’s refusal to crack down on North Korea simply stems from China’s opportunity to throw sand in the eyes of the U.S. and other UN members.
To those who see North Korea’s situa-
tion as nothing serious, refer to a similar affair three years ago. Today’s relationship between Kim Jong-un and China is very similar to that of Syria’s Bashar al-Assad and Russia. 
Many didn’t take that alliance very seri-
ously, either. Now we have a refugee crisis, two failed states and a terrorist organiza-tion striking fear on the world. Countries, like children, eventually grow to become stronger. No matter how much he would like to think so, Kim Jong-un will not live forever. Once he dies, there will be a regime change in North Korea. But at that point, it may be too late for the world to intervene.
It should not be the sole responsibility 
of China to carry out stronger future poli-cies against dictators. We don’t have to look halfway across the world to see power that could potentially do much good but be-comes dangerous in the hands of infantile leaders. It’s not that I bleed apple pie or bald eagles, but the U.S. has always played big brother due to the size of its military.  Moral judgements aside, that is part of America’s history. It seems the saying, “let the adults handle this,” can’t be used much anymore. Anyone remember who’s run-ning for president again?
Joshua Udvardy is a UF engineering 
freshman. His column appears on Wednes-days.
Adults have power, children decideColumn
Joshua 
Udvardy
opinions@alligator.org
Jordan 
MacKenzie
opinions@alligator.orgWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   9 8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
Shannon Stockton, a UF second-year medical student, runs 
through the double-helix bridge that crosses over 13th Street on Tuesday afternoon.
Andres Leiva / Alligator StaffLEFT:
Ben Bacia, a 21-year-old UF mechanical engineering junior, examines the chain on a bicycle inside Student Government Bike Repair in the Reitz Union on Tuesday. “I’ve been working on bikes for as long as I remember, ” he said.
Andres Leiva / Alligator Staff
BELOW: 
Middle and high school students from P . K. Yonge Developmental Research School run the bleachers in Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Tuesday. The school’s track and field program has strength and conditioning training in the stadium on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Nicole Gomez / Alligator Staff
Joseph Garrett, assistant track and ﬁ  eld coach at P . K. Yonge Developmental Research School, cheers on running students in Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium on Tuesday. “Winners win, losers lose!” he said.
Students walk through UF’s Veterans Memorial outside of the Reitz Union on Tuesday. A plaque at the center of the memorial commemorates Gator veterans and those who died protecting and serving their country.
Emma Green / Alligator StaffRIGHT:
T ony Fiorentino, 50, who plasters for a living, puts some ﬁ  nishing touches on the Reitz Union. Most newly built sections of the ﬁ  rst ﬂ  oor are still off-limits except to construction workers, he said.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
BELOW: 
Kelvin Abreu, a 14-year-old eighth-grader from East Ridge Middle School in Clermont, Florida, plays a pickup game of football with his classmates on the North Lawn on Tuesday afternoon. The students were on a ﬁ  eld trip to visit UF’s campus.
Emma Green / Alligator Staff
A DAY IN THE L IFE
Gainesville EditionBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Get that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
Starting @ $375/BR All inclusive! 
Furnished ● Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-20-71-1
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $395/mo2BR APT $525/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
4-20-15-71-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   12-7-15-169-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
● Centerpoint - 1220 NW 12 ST ●
$470 - 1BR/1BA – 530 SQ.FT.
Bike to UF through-tree lined streets or
ride the bus located one block away!
No application fee, most pets ok.
E.F.N. Properties, 352-371-3636 or
www.efnproperties.com
rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2●House for Rent - 2392 SW 2nd Avenue●
Directly across from Law School
4BR/2BA 
W/D,DW, cent AC/heat
Spacious back yard w/ deck
Only $1,625/month
No application fee, most pets ok.
352-371-3636 or rentals@efnproperties.com
1-29-15-17-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-29-15-18-2
Avail Aug 1st. 3BR/3BA nice house, 9 blocks 
from campus. Wood floors, W/D incl, pri-vate backyard. $1150/mo, 924 NW 9th Ave. Call or text 352-339-2342. More houses at gainesvillequalityrentalhouses.com 1-20-15-23-2
3 Subleases
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-20-71-5Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    12-7-169-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       12-7-169-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
12-7-169-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture      12-7-169-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more informawtion.
Your roommate hasn’t done the dishes in How long?! Find a better dishwasher in the Alligator Classifieds.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-03704-20-15-71-10
 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-20-71-10
 
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-20-15-71-11
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.
★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Now with 2 Convenient Locations!
633 NW 13th Street, 745-7776
118 NW 14th Ave,  Ste D, 336-1271
NS4L.com
4-20-15-71-11
★★★ SCOOTER REPAIR ★★★
@NS4L Headquarters!
118 NW 14th Ave, 336-1271
Low Labor Rates, Free Estimates
4-20-15-71-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
    Call KT 352-281-9980
4-20-71-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
SUNRISE AUTO SALES
NO CREDIT CHECK!!!
6 MONTHS TO PAY
DOWN PAYMENT!!!
352-375-9090                     4-20-71-12
SUNRISE AUTO RENTAL
EASY TO RENT!!!!
NO CREDIT CARD REQUIRED!
www.carrentalsunrise.com
352-375-9090                   4-20-71-12
SUN CITY AUTO SALES
HOME OF $0 DOWN!
NO CREDIT CHECK!! NO INCOME CHECK!
NO EMPLOYMENT CHECK!
352-338-1999                 4-20-71-12
★★HEADLINERS SAGGING?★★★POWER WINDOWS DON'T WORK? ★
On site avail. Steve's Headliners 352-226-1973
Google: Steve's Headliners, Gainesville1-5-56-12
98 NISSAN SENTRA $30098 FORD ESCORT $39588 HONDA CIVIC $49597 TOYOTA COROLLA $495352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
93 TOYOTA CAMRY $59500 CAMRY $59599 BUICK $49598 NISSAN QUEST $695352-338-1999                      4-20-71-12
97 FORD CROWN VICTORIA $69591 FORD RANGER $79500 CHEVY IMPALA $89598 DODGE DAKOTA $895352-338-1999                       4-20-71-12
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
1105 W. University Ave.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-3015By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two    publica -
tion days later. Ads may run for any length 
of time and be cancelled at any time. Sorry, 
but there can be no refunds or credits for 
cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified1For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 12 AutosWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   11 
This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any 
reader who responds to advertising use cau-
tion and investigate the sincerity of the adver-
tiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, 
guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you 
sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-8090
4-20-71-13
Another Saturday night without a date?Read The Alligator.Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDEDI AM BLIND & WOULD LIKE HELP WITH:A ride to Queen of Peace Church to attend knitting group. Wednesdays, 7pm to 8:30pm. Call 352-219-6948       1-6-15-36-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact Traci Garrison
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
TYPIST FOR PROFESSIONALOFFICE. MUST TYPE 60 WPM
Send resume to dawnbkrop@gmail.com
1-20-16-5-14
13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted 13 Wanted
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment   4-20-15-71-14
SBSG: GET PAID TO TYPE- Create your own schedule- Competitive production-based pay- Super close to campus!- Must be able to touch-type 60wpm- $8.10-$12.00+ an hour!Apply Online at www.sbsgnv.com    12-7-16-169-14
DOMINO"S HIRINGDelivery Experts & Assistant Managers & Future Managers. Drivers earn between $14-$17 per hour. GMs earn 40K-50K+.  Apply at gatordominos.com    2-5-15-23-14
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
Full Time and Part Time Positions avail -
able. We are looking for energetic self start-ers, with good communication and com-puter skills. We also have Store Managers Positions available for our Ocala Store. Good pay, Friendly People and a fun place to work. Backyard Water, 7100 West University Avenue, just off of Tower Road. Must Apply In Person. Ocala managers positions pay $600.00 + per week.    1-13-15-20-14
Seeking Event Supervisors and 
Warehouse Staff!!
Part-Time, Flexible!
$8.05/ hr
Apply in person at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium
Gate 18 Concessions Office
(352) 692-6160
2-5-15-24-14
●CAMP MATAPONI● is hiring for paid 
summer internships and jobs.  We are a 
premier children’s summer camp on Sebago Lake, Maine. Over 100 different positions available. Salaries start at $2100+ room/board. 561-748-3684 or campmataponi.com    2-26-15-38-14.
University of Florida
Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
392 2908 ext. 105
$9.50/$10 hr + INCENTIVE + Paid Training
Telephone Interviewing NO SALES
Apply at https://jobs.ufl.edu/
4-20-71-14
NOW HIRING for SPRING '16
Notetakers
Editors
Production Assistants
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
1-15-15-9-14Experienced Cook Wanted
Cafe Risque, Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Dancer Auditions Ongoing
Managers Apply in Person        2-1-20-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $2.50 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Need Aggressive Lawyer?
SiddiquiLegal.com
Private Experienced Affordable  4-20-15-71-
15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-20-15-71-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
20 Event Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR 
ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-5-170-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 16 Health Services 21 Entertainment 24 PetsHeadline
Story description Pg#
Jim McElwain appeared on 
ESPN during the College Football Playoff National Championship Game to analyze the action. Read the column on pg. 14.By Alex Maminakis
Alligator Staff Writer
@alexmaminakis
 
Florida had the ball with 8.5 
seconds remaining against No. 
15 Texas A&M, trailing by three 
points with a chance to tie. 
John Egbunu committed his 
fifth personal foul, turning the 
ball over and seemingly ending 
the game. 
But Chris Chiozza stole the 
ball on the Aggies’ inbound pass and took a wide open three-point-
er, which bounced just off the 
edge of the rim and gave Florida its second-straight Southeastern Conference road loss.
Florida fell to Texas A&M 71-
68 on Wednesday night in Col-lege Station, Texas. The Gators have now lost four of their five true road games this season and 
are 0-4 against ranked opponents.
“I thought our guys fought, I 
thought they played together,” 
coach Mike White said. “(We) 
played for each other and put 
ourselves in a position to have a chance against a team who’s leading our league on the road, and a team who’s really good.”Florida (10-6, 2-2 SEC) kept 
the score close with one of its best offensive games of the sea-son. The Gators shot 44.3 percent 
from the field, 38.5 percent from 
beyond the arc and had a good night on the defensive end, but 
foul trouble and strong shooting 
performances by a pair of TAMU seniors ultimately proved to be too much to overcome.
Senior guard Jalen Jones led the Aggies (14-2, 4-0 SEC) with 
26 points on 8-of-13 shooting, 
including three three-pointers. The other senior guard, Danuel House, contributed 22 points with 
two triples. The two combined for 
48 of Texas A&M’s 71 points, a low output for a team that aver-ages 80.1 points per game.
The Gators’ defense was solid 
all night, but perhaps a bit too ag-gressive. 
Florida racked up 25 personal 
fouls compared to 13 by the Ag-
gies. Texas A&M scored 20 points 
from the free throw line on 30 at-tempts, while Florida was held to 12 attempts, converting on just four.
The Gators’ two leading scor-
ers, forwards Dorian Finney-Smith and Justin Leon, each fin-ished with four personal fouls. 
Finney-Smith registered his third 
double-double of the season with a team-high 17 points and 12 rebounds, including four three-pointers. Leon scored a career-
best 16 points and Chiozza added 
12 along with a game-high eight assists.
“I thought we did some de-
cent things offensively, especially from (three-point range),” White said. “If we got 39 percent every 
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
www.alligator.org/sports
Sloan wins Gymnast of the Week
UF gymnastics senior Bridget Sloan was named the co-SEC Gymnast of the 
Week, the l eague announced on Tuesday. Sloan posted a 39.50 all-around 
score against T exas Woman's University, tied for the highest score nationally.Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF forward Dorian Finney-Smith drives into the paint during Florida's win against LSU on Saturday. 
Finney-Smith recorded his third double-double of the season during the Gators' loss to T exas A&M. 
Missed free throws doom UF in loss against Texas A&M  
GYMNASTICS
By Alejandro López
Alligator Writer
@ajlb95
 
Opening a gymnastics season on the 
road is one thing.
Entering a hostile environment while 
still trying to shake off an off-season’s worth of rust, however, presents its own unique set of challenges. Competing with 
the precision needed to emerge victorious 
adds an additional kink to that chain.
Manage that, and you’re in the clear, at 
least until you get to perform in front of your home crowd.
UF’s gymnastics team, completing the 
first item on that checklist, is set to waltz into the confines of the O’Connell Center with a win under its belt. But winning a 
meet at Kitty Magee Arena in Denton, Tex-
as — a stadium capable of housing 1,800 fans — pales in comparison to the mad-house they’re about to enter.The O’Dome, the University of Florida’s 
multi-purpose indoor sporting facility, was constructed in 1980 and has played host to nine NCAA championship-winning teams 
across three sports.
The longevity and 
tradition of the Florida Gators’ athletic program, though, manifests itself in its fans, who flock to the 
stadium to root for their 
favorite teams.
Across the 2014 and 
2015 gymnastics campaigns, Florida fans 
turned out in record numbers. 
During the former year, the team netted 
an average of 7,366 fans per event, shat-
tering the university record for average gymnastics attendance by more than 900 
attendees. In 2015, the Gators finished the 
season ranked sixth in national average attendance, with 5,850 supporters show-Florida ready for home opener
MIKE WHITE HAS THE 
MOST WINS THROUGH THE 
FIRST HALF OF THE SEASON. 
By Ian Cohen
Alligator Staff writer
@icohenb
You’d have to trek back over a decade to 
find the last time the Southeastern Conference underwent a coaching overhaul like the one 
that occurred before the start of the 2015-16 
season.
 Four new coaches were hired, replacing a 
combined 29 years of head coaching experi-
ence by their respective predecessors.
Halfway through the college basketball 
regular season, here’s a look at how each  
coach is faring in his first year in charge, ranked by record.
 1. Mike White
Florida GatorsRecord: 10-6 (2-2 SEC) 
In trying to replace a legend, Mike White’s 
first season at Florida has had its ups and 
downs.
The Gators opened the regular season with 
three straight wins but lost by 15 points in a neutral-site contest against its first ranked op-ponent in then-No. 21 Purdue.
UF followed up the loss with three more 
wins at home, but subsequently fell by 11 points to then-No. 17 Miami and by six points to then-No. 1 Michigan State on the road.
UF has won four of its last seven, including 
a home win against conference foe LSU, but also suffered an embarrassing 14-point loss in Knoxville to Tennessee that led White to ques-tion his team’s effort.By the Numbers: Breaking 
down first-year SEC coachesSEE HOOPS,  PAGE 15
SEE GYM,  PAGE 15 SEE COACHES,  PAGE 15Florida went 4-of-12 from the line
Rowland
14   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
By Luis T orres
Alligator Staff Writer
@LFTorresIII
With the NBA All-Star break 
about a month away, it looks like 
former Gator and current Atlanta 
Hawks center Al Horford has the 
best chance to play in the All-Star 
Game when it’s held in Toronto 
on Feb. 14. 
Horford has been dominant 
since the New Year started. In 
four January games, he is aver-
aging 19.3 points and eight re-
bounds per game while shooting 61.1 percent from the field. 
On Jan. 9 against the Chicago 
Bulls, the 6-foot-10, 245 pound 
center scored a season-high 33 
points on 15-of-21 shooting. Hor-ford’s 10 rebounds in that game gave him his 10th double-double 
of the season. Horford and the 
Hawks will be in action tonight when Atlanta (23-15) faces off against the Charlotte Hornets. 
Joakim Noah returns:  
Chicago Bulls center Joakim 
Noah returned to the Bulls’ line-up for the first time in almost a month since he suffered a slight tear in his left shoulder. On Mon-day, the Bulls squared off against the Washington Wizards and lost 
114-100.
Noah struggled shooting the 
ball, going scoreless on 0-for-7 
shooting from the field in 19 min-utes, but grabbed nine rebounds 
and dished out four assists.
Against the Milwaukee Bucks 
on Tuesday night, Noah played 
15 minutes and had three points 
on 1-of-3 shooting, and seven re-
bounds in a 106-101 loss. 
Parsons struggling with 
consistency:  
Dallas forward Chandler Par-
sons’ performance has been up-and-down this year for the Mav-ericks. 
After averaging 15.7 points per 
game last season, he is posting an average of just 9.3 in 2015-2016.
 In addition, Parsons’ 3.6 re-
bounds and 0.4 steals per game are the worst of his career. 
In six January contests prior 
to Tuesday night’s game against Cleveland Cavaliers, Parsons has had only three games where he’s 
scored at least 10 points, scoring 
just six, three and four points in the other three games. 
On Tuesday night against the 
Cavaliers, Parsons had his fourth 
January game with at least 10 
points when he scored a season-high 25 points on 10-of-14 shoot-ing in a 110-107 overtime loss. 
Parsons will look to sustain 
Tuesday’s performance when the Mavericks face Oklahoma City to-night at 8 p.m.
Beal hopeful to return this 
week: 
According to a story in the 
Washington Post, Wizards guard Bradley Beal said he’s hopeful he can return sometime this week — 
either on Friday or Saturday — 
from a stress reaction in his right fibula that’s kept him out since Dec. 11.
The shooting guard has missed 
16 games — the Wizards are 8-8 in his absence — with the injury, the fourth stress reaction he’s had in his fibula since he entered the 
NBA four years ago. Beal leads 
Washington in scoring, averag-ing a career-high 19.8 points per game while shooting 38.9 percent 
from three. 
On Friday and Saturday, the 
Wizards will face the Indiana 
Pacers and Boston Celtics, re-spectively.    Gators in the NBA: Horford hitting stride
AP Photo
Atlanta center Al Horford (15) scores during the Hawks’ 120-105 
win over the Chicago Bulls on Saturday, Jan. 9, 2016, in Atlanta.
AIR JORDAN
The Gators may not have 
made it to the national title game for their 15th 
opportunity of the sea-
son, but Jim McElwain 
still had a chance to provide input on the national title 
game.
In the midst of No. 2 Ala-
bama toppling No. 1 Clem-
son 45-40 on Monday in the College Football Playoff Championship 
Game, McElwain, along with North Caro-
lina’s Larry Fedora, South Carolina’s Will Muschamp, Pittsburgh’s Pat Narduzzi and USF’s Willie Taggart joined ESPN analysts 
Brian Griese and Chris Spielman to pro-
vide insight on the game from a coach’s standpoint.
It’s an inquisitive idea, an opportuni-
ty for people who are into the analytical 
side of the game (like me) to get a better 
chance to pick the coaches’ brains from a distance.
And of the five coaches who were in 
the film room, McElwain was easily at the top of the class.
UF’s first-year head coach handled the 
TV spot like a pro. 
His personality didn’t skip a beat, ef-
fectively breaking down the game plans of both the Tigers and the Crimson Tide while incorporating his own terminology to further explain his thoughts.
He was smooth in his approach, no dif-
ferent than he was when he joked with media on a weekly basis, a sign of a po-tential future job for him if he ever gives up the coaching gig.
But while McElwain (and 
others) excelled on the show 
much like he did in his first 
season with the Gators (well, maybe except for the last three games of the year), the show 
itself still needs some work if 
ESPN decides to renew it for next year.
The analysis overall was 
great, but coaches were repeatedly cut off 
mid-sentence in transitions to commer-
cials, only to come back from the break as if they had been talking the entire time.
This caused for a lapse in analysis on 
more than one occasion. 
The coaches also seemed to talk over 
each other at various points, signifying a 
potential lapse in organization. 
They’re simple mistakes that take mi-
nor tweaks to fix, but it’s those little things 
that can make the program so much better in the long run.
All in all, though, Film Room provided 
college football fans with a unique option for watching the title game that could be a successful viewing option for years to 
come.McElwain showcases polish on ESPN
Danielle Veenstra / Alligator
UF coach Jim McElwain points to the crowd during Gator Walk prior to Florida’s 20-
14 overtime win against Florida Atlantic on Nov. 21 at Ben Hill Grifﬁ  n Stadium.
He scored 33 points on Saturday
Jordan     
McPherson
twitter: @J_McPherson1126
“UF’s irst-year head 
coach handled the TV 
spot like a pro.”WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016   ALLIGATOR   15  
Offense: Not only does UF have 
one of the worst offenses in the SEC, 
but it’s also hard to argue otherwise on the national level. Heading into its 
game against Texas A&M on Tues-
day, Florida is averaging 72.8 points per game, 190th in the country.
The Gators also rank 289th in field 
goal percentage (41.4) and 336th in 
three-point percentage (28.3), all last 
in the SEC.
Defense: This is the bright side. 
White embraces a defense-first men-
tality, and with a team that strug-
gles mightily to score, the first-year coach has no choice but to play to his strengths.
Florida is tied for 22nd in the na-
tion in scoring defense, allowing op-ponents to score just 63.4 points per game. In fact, the Gators held the top-ranked Spartans to their lowest 
point total on the season when the 
two teams faced off on Dec. 12.
And Florida isn’t too shabby in 
three-point field goal defense (43rd in the nation), steals (tied for 68th), 
and total rebounds (tied for 77th) ei-
ther.
 
Avery Johnson 
Alabama Crimson TideRecord: 9-5 (0-2 SEC)
Replacing Anthony Grant wasn’t 
going to be easy.
A former Florida assistant coach, 
Grant walked away from his head 
coaching position at Alabama and 
followed Billy Donovan to the NBA to serve as an assistant coach for the Oklahoma City Thunder.
From 2009-15, Grant finished 
with a 117-85 record in Tuscaloosa, made it to the NIT three times — once finishing as runner up — and 
the 2nd round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment once.
Enter Avery Johnson.The 50-year-old brings a ton of 
coaching experience with him, serv-ing as a head coach in the NBA for six and a half years and compiling a 254-186 record. That span includes one NBA Finals appearance with the 
Dallas Mavericks in 2005-06.
His first few months at Alabama 
have been slightly less prolific.
The Tide opened the season 
with a victory but then lost two of 
their next three games, falling by 32 points to Dayton and by 19 to then-No. 23 Xavier.
From there, Alabama went on a 
five game winning streak, squeak-ing out victories over then-No. 20 Wichita State and then-No. 17 Notre Dame.
Lately, the Tide have cooled off, 
as they’ve lost three of their last five games.
Offense: Offensively, Alabama 
isn’t much better than Florida. The 
Tide rank last in the SEC in points 
per game (66.0), 12th in field goal percentage (42.8) and 197th in the nation in three-point percentage 
(33.7).
Defense: Alabama ranks a re-spectable 72nd in the country in 
scoring defense, allowing 66.4 points per game, but ranks last in the SEC in rebounds per game (33.5).
The Crimson Tide also rank tied 
for 10th in the conference with 6.0 steals per game and sixth in blocks per game at 5.1.
Rick Barnes
Tennessee VolunteersRecord: 8-7 (1-2 SEC)
After the departure of Bruce Pearl 
in 2011, the Volunteers have strug-
gled to find an adequate replace-
ment. 
Although Cuonzo Martin saw 
some success in his three-year ten-
ure as head coach — including two 
NIT appearances and an NCAA 
Sweet 16 run in 2013-14 — he re-signed in 2014 and took the vacant head-coaching job at California.
After a season with a mediocre 
16-16 record under Donnie Tyndall, in which Tennessee fired Tyndall after the coach was alleged to have committed NCAA violations, the 
Volunteers hired Rick Barnes.
Barnes made the move from 
Texas, where he oversaw 16 NCAA 
Tournament appearances, including fourteen straight, in his 17 years as 
head coach.
UT started off the season winning 
four of its first five games but then 
lost three straight, including a 94-86 
defeat at then-No. 18 Butler on Dec. 
12.
The Vols have been largely in-
consistent since then, dropping three games and winning four.
Offense: Tennessee sits in fourth 
place in the SEC with 80.1 points per game, but is ninth in field goal per-centage (44.3) and seventh in three-
point percentage (.345).Defense: Barnes’ defense is 
worse than his offense, ranking 270th 
in the nation in scoring defense (76.1 points per game) and 11th in the SEC 
in steals (5.6 per game). However, 
the Vols rank first and fourth in the conference in blocks (5.9 per game) and rebounds (40.0 per game), re-spectively.
Ben Howland
Mississippi StateRecord: 7-7 (0-2 SEC)
After 10 years, seven NCAA 
Tournament appearances and two 
finishes in the Final Four at UCLA, 
Ben Howland made the move from 
the Pac-12 Conference to the SEC.
Howland takes over a program 
with low expectations after three 
years and a 37-60 record under for-
mer coach Rick Ray.
The Bulldogs began the season 
slowly, dropping three of their first four games, including a 26-point loss 
to Miami in the Puerto Rico Tipoff on 
Nov. 19.
After going 3-2 over its next five 
games, MSU won three in a row be-
fore dropping both of its conference 
matchups against Texas A&M and Arkansas.
Offense: Mississippi State ranks 
ninth in the SEC in points per game 
at 76.4 and 12th in three-point per-
centage at .306 percent. However, they sit in fourth place with a field goal percentage of 46.9 percent. 
Defense: In Howland’s first sea-
son, the Bulldogs rank 206th in the country in scoring defense, allowing opponents to score 72.7 points per game. 
They are also tied for 10th in the 
SEC in steals (six per game), 13th in rebounds (34.6 per game) and ninth in blocks per game at 4.29.COACHES,  from pg 13'Bama ranks 72nd in scoring defense
AP Photo
Alabama coach Avery Johnson gestures during the first half of Ala-
bama's 74-66 loss to Ole Miss in Oxford, Mississippi, on Jan. 7. 
night then we probably would 
be sitting here with two or three less losses.”
It was Florida’s fourth-best 
shooting performance of the year and third-best shooting percentage from beyond the 
arc, but turnovers and poor 
free throw shooting ultimately weighed down the offense. 
The Gators’ 16 turnovers led 
to 21 Texas A&M points. Florida 
was only turning the ball over 
10.4 times per game prior to Wednesday night.
And at the charity stripe, the 
Gators left eight points off the board by shooting just 33.3 per-cent (4-of-12) from the line.   
Tuesday’s performance was 
a better outing than Florida’s previous SEC road game last 
Wednesday at Tennessee, and 
the Gators built on their win over LSU on Saturday, but against the No. 15 team in the country, Florida wasn’t efficient 
enough to take down the Aggies. 
“This wasn’t one of our poor 
offensive performances, but just 
not good enough,” White said. 
“If you go 4-of-12 from the foul 
line, and you shoot the same percentage and you have 10 turnovers instead of 16, then maybe we’re sitting here with a 
win.”
A radio broadcast contributed 
to this report. HOOPS,  from pg 13The Gators turned 
the ball over 16 timesing up to each of their five home 
meets.
Sixth nationally is undoubt-
edly impressive. However, if you consider that the Gators aver-aged fourth or higher nationwide in that same metric from 2006-
14, that distinction fades ever so 
slightly.
It may be a home crowd, but 
it’s a crowd nonetheless — one that can set nerves on edge in 
spite of its good intentions. 
The gymnasts, though, are 
ready, and even keyed in their 
new head coach on what to ex-
pect.
“The athletes can’t express to 
me what an honor and privilege 
it is to compete in the O’Dome in front of Gator Nation,” Jenny 
Rowland said. “I’m looking for-
ward to being able to be on that floor next to the team, and help them lead their way, guide them through all of their dreams and 
everything they would like to 
achieve this year.”
Coming off of a solid — yet 
admittedly imperfect — team 
showing at Texas Woman’s Uni-
versity, Rowland has the utmost confidence in her team’s ability to perform in front of the throng of people likely to greet them 
when they take the mat against 
No. 7 UCLA this Friday.
“I think the first meet out, the 
girls started on bars—it’s been a 
little while since they’ve compet-
ed—so their nerves were a little higher than normal,” Rowland said. “But I think being back in the O’Dome, the girls are go-
ing to be feeling welcomed and 
ready to compete in front of their friends, family and the Gator Na-tion.
“They’re just ready to show 
off what they’ve been working on.”GYM,  from pg 13UF was sixth in average 
home attendance in 2015
Aaron Albright / Alligator Staff
UF guard Chris Chiozza goes up for a layup during Florida's win 
against LSU on Saturday. 
16   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016
FLORIDA IS RANKED IN THE 
AP POLL FOR THE FIRST TIME 
IN SEVEN YEARS.
By Ethan Bauer
Alligator Staff Writer
@ebaueri
Florida’s women’s basketball team is surg-
ing, and people are taking notice. 
On Monday, the team debuted in the Asso-
ciated Press top-25 poll for the ﬁ  rst time since 
2009, coming in at No. 20.
And on Tuesday, the Gators became the ﬁ  rst 
team to sweep the Southeastern Conference 
weekly awards since 2013.
Redshirt senior guard Carlie Needles took 
home the SEC Player of the Week award, fu-eled mainly by her impressive shooting perfor-mance against then-No. 12 Tennessee. 
Needles scored 15 points on 5-for-8 shoot-
ing from behind the arc against the Volunteers, good for the second-most points on the team. 
“Carlie is just tough,” coach Amanda Butler 
said. “She’s a worker. She’s selﬂ  ess and at the same time she’s got a lot of pride. She’s going 
to do whatever it takes for her team to win.”
Freshman Eleanna Christinaki scored the 
most points for the Gators against Tennessee, 
though, ﬁ  nishing with 18.
 She also garnered SEC Freshman Player of 
the Week laurels due in large part to her per-formance against the Volunteers. 
Needles’ and Christinaki’s recognition for 
their performances seems ﬁ  tting because, ac-
cording to Butler, a combination of veteran 
leadership and inexperienced vigor has been the reason that Florida has garnered national attention. 
“Certainly our veterans and our seniors… 
deserve a lot of credit for us being emotionally 
ready for whatever the next challenge is and 
carrying on the things that we do,” she said.
“But the energy, the talent, the personal-
ity that we get from Simone (Westbrook) and 
Ty (Fleming) and Eleanna is really the perfect 
combination of what this team of returners needed.”
That combination has led to the Gators play-
ing a balanced brand of basketball. Whether 
on TV or radio, it has become custom for an-
nouncers to make note of Butler’s mass sub-
stitutions, since she routinely subs out all ﬁ  ve players on the ﬂ  oor for ﬁ  ve new ones. 
Butler said the team’s ability to make sub-
stitutions and spread the ball around is a result 
of its depth, and that this year’s team is the 
deepest she’s ever coached.
“This team is different — they’re very dif-
ferent in that regard than really any other team 
I’ve been a part of,” she said of her team’s bal-
anced style of play.
“We just have a lot of quality depth and tal-
ent, and I think they play with a great deal of conﬁ  dence.”
Butler noted that the team’s conﬁ  dence is as 
much individual as it is collective. 
Speciﬁ  cally, she pointed to Needles as 
someone whose conﬁ  dence — especially in her 
teammates — has shown through.
“She’s a kid who’s played, gosh, you know, 
last year, she was probably averaging 35, 36 
minutes a game and she is so happy to play 15 as long as we win,” Butler said. 
“She’s very happy to sacriﬁ  ce her minutes 
if her shots aren’t falling the same way that Simone’s are, or that January’s are, or whoever the next person is.”
The Gators currently have three players av-
eraging double ﬁ  gures, but no one averages even 11 points. 
Christinaki is on the cusp of averaging dou-
ble digits with 9.9, and ﬁ  ve more players aver-
age at least six. 
To put that into perspective, the No. 250 
scorer in the country averages 14 points. 
Florida’s leading scorer averages 10.4, more 
than three points less than that, yet the Gators 
are still 14-2. 
That depth will only become more impor-
tant as the grind of SEC play continues, starting with a game against the rival Georgia Bulldogs 
on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the O’Connell Center. Depth, experience paying dividends for women’s basketball
Jordan McPherson / Alligator Staff 
UF guard Carlie Needles drives into the paint during Florida’s win against Sa-
vannah State on Nov. 24 in the O’Connell Center.
