We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of FloridaVOLUME 112 ISSUE 23 MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligator
McElwain isn’t the only coach on 
the hot seat 
Our columnist writes that three other SEC coaches could be in trouble, pg. 14.Plants by the potato 
Students gave out more than 1,000 plants on Turlington, pg. 10.
Prepare to get goosebumps 
Author R.L. Stine is the next Accent speaker, pg. 4. 
Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
Florida 17 Texas A&M 19
By Matt Brannon
Sports Writer
Coach Jim McElwain stood in front of reporters 
and ran through his postgame clichés. 
The crowd was awesome.Our guys played hard.
We left it all out on the ﬁ  eld.
He was right about the last point. The Gators 
(3-3, 3-2 SEC) left their chances of a successful sea-
son withering on the turf and exited The Swamp as Texas A&M’s band triumphantly played them out. 
Tasked with bouncing back after a Homecoming 
loss to LSU, Florida fell short again on Saturday night, this time by two points instead of one:  
Aggies 19, Gators 17.
As McElwain grew more frustrated, he shifted 
the blame. He said the staff’s plan was solid, but 
the execution wasn’t. 
That was especially evident when McElwain 
was asked about Texas A&M’s 43-yard punt return 
that set up its game-winning ﬁ  eld goal. Shouldn’t UF have angled kicks away from Christian Kirk, ex-
plosive Aggies return man?
“Yeah, that’s what’s supposed to happen, and 
it didn’t and it came back and bit us,” McElwain 
said. “Obviously gave them a chance to win it in the end.”
UF never trailed until the ﬁ  nal minute. But 
throughout the game as Texas A&M (5-2, 3-1 SEC) 
battled back, Florida found ways to lose its grip. 
Quarterback Feleipe Franks threw two intercep-
tions and took unnecessary sacks when he could’ve 
thrown the ball away. Poor clock management 
caused Florida to waste a scoring opportunity at  BEYOND REPAIR: No solution in sight for scoring struggles
SEE FOOTBALL,  PAGE 14Cecilia Lemus / Alligator Staff
Despite a dominant performance on defense, Florida’s offense failed to outscore T exas A&M in The Swamp on Saturday 
night. “I feel like the defense always does enough, ” defensive lineman CeCe Jefferson (right) said after the game. 
THEY WILL ACCEPT 1,000 
STUDENTS FROM PUERTO RICO 
AND THE U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS.
By Christina Morales
Alligator Staff Writer
UF will offer free online courses to dis-
placed college students from Puerto Rico and 
the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Fifteen students have already applied for 
the program, UF’s Provost and Senior Vice 
President for Academic Affairs Joseph Glover 
said. About 1,000 students will be accepted, he said.
From Spring 2018 through Summer 2018, 
students displaced by the hurricanes will have the opportunity to take free courses as non-de-gree-seeking students, Glover said. Students will not have to pay tuition or fees, and they will receive a free Gator 1 Card, he said. 
“We’re very proud to be able to offer this 
opportunity to help the students in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and we hope that a lot of students will take advantage of it,” Glover said. “It’s our little way of contributing to helping resolve this humanitarian crisis.”
Glover said there is no formal application 
process, and all students need to provide is an ID card, a bill or a letter from their home uni-
versity that gives proof of enrollment.
Students can apply to transfer to become 
degree-seeking students by August 30, 2018 
for the Fall semester, Glover said.UF oﬀ  ers free courses to 
hurricane-aﬀ  ected students
THE PLANS WERE CHANGED TO 
DISTRIBUTE TICKETS THURSDAY.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
Tickets for Richard Spencer’s speech 
Thursday will not be distributed until the 
day of the event, a spokesperson for the Na-tional Policy Institute said.
Evan McLaren said the distribution was 
postponed from Saturday to Thursday after the institute heard two Gainesville bars — Tall Paul’s Brew House, located at 10 SE Second Ave., and The Midnight, located at 223 S. Main St. — announced they were hosting events to give out free beer to any-one who turns in a ticket to the event at the bar.
“These obstacles that we are faced with 
are a little bit tricky,” McLaren said. “We were not really excited about the ticketing arrangements to begin with.”
Tickets were originally supposed to be 
given out Saturday through Wednesday, ex-cept Sunday, leading up to the event at the Phillips Center for the Performing Arts box ofﬁ  ce, located at 3201 Hull Road.
Ticket sales are under UF’s control, ac-
cording to the contract between Spencer’s organization and the university. UF spokes-Richard Spencer event 
ticket distribution delayed 
SEE COURSES,  PAGE 4 SEE TICKET,  PAGE 4Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St.  Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 112 ISSUE 23
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPM2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
HIGH  88° LOW  66°
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. WHAT’S HAPPENING? 
Apply Now for 2018-2019 
Financial Aid
To apply for financial aid, com-plete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) 
at fafsa.ed.gov. The 2018-2019 
FAFSA is now available. UF’s “on-time” deadline to receive the results of your 2018-2019 FAFSA 
from the federal processor is 
Dec. 15. Apply well before Dec. 
15 to ensure that the federal pro-
cessor has time to analyze and send the results of your FAFSA to UF Student Financial Affairs. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, so apply as early as possible to be considered for the most and best aid. For more information 
or assistance with completing 
your FAFSA, visit fafsa.ed.gov or contact your SFA financial aid adviser sfa.ufl.edu/contact-sfa. 
UF String Chamber Ensembles 
RecitalThe UF School of Music is host-ing the UF String Chamber Ensembles recital today from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The recit-al will be in the Music Building, 
Room 101, located at 435 Newell 
Drive. The recital is free and open to the public. 
Authors@UF: Victoria Pagán
Victoria Pagán is professor in the UF Department of Classics. Her talk on Tuesday at 1 p.m. in Smathers Library, Room 100 is 
“Tacitus and his Eternal Works.” 
The Roman author Tacitus is most famously known for his de-pictions of the historical events of the first century CE, but his influence is still discernible in the works of modern writers, 
painters and musicians. Pagán 
provides a valuable look at his lasting impressions on artists in her new book.
Talking Gators Toastmasters
Want to get more comfortable speaking in front of a group? 
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
meets every Tuesday at 5:45 p.m. in Entomology Building, Room 1031. Meetings are free to attend and open to all. Visit talkinggators.toastmastersclubs.org.
English and citizenship classes 
The Latina Women’s League’s education and civic program of-fers free English and citizenship classes at the Alachua County Library District Millhopper Branch Library, located at 3145 NW 43rd St. English classes will be Tuesday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Nov. 14. Citizenship classes will be Thursday evenings from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. through Oct. 26. For more information or to register, visit latinawomensleague.org or email info@latinawomens-
leaguer.org. 
Visiting Artist Lecture with 
Pepón Osorio
UF’s School of Art + Art History is hosting artist Pepon Osorio on Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Little Hall, Room 101, located at 1400 Stadium Road. The event 
is free and open to the public. 
Osorio uses different objects, in-stallations and video to portray political and social issues af-fecting Latino communities. His speech is part of the Fall 2017 Visiting Artists Lecture Series.
Fall Day of Service
The David and Wanda Brown Center for Leadership and Service is holding a Fall 2017 Day of Service on Saturday. Join several hundred volunteers for a day of reflection and service for a wide variety of nonprofits in-cluding Keep Alachua Beautiful, Acorn Clinic, Historic Haile 
Homestead, NATL (Natural 
Area Teaching Lab), Wilmot Gardens, The Repurpose Project, Operation Catnip and more. For more information, call 352-392-1215, email cls@leadershipand-service.ufl.edu, or visit bit.ly/daysofservice. 
Night of Dance
UF HealthStreet, a community engagement program at UF, will host its second Annual Night of Dance on Bo Diddley Community Plaza downtown Sunday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. The event will be an evening of live music, danc-ing, wellness and food trucks. 
Last year, more than 500 com-
munity members attended. This is a free event for all ages. Come learn some new dance moves from live performers, eat local food and learn more about your health from the free wellness resources. Visit healthstreet.pro-gram.ufl.edu/ for more informa-
tion. 
Sunday Series: Fall Harvest 
Dinner with Farm Kitchen 
CollectiveJoin Forage & Working Food, located at 219 NW 10th Ave., on Sunday from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. for a fresh, farm-to-table 
meal featuring the best of what 
Gainesville local farms have to offer. A discount will be avail-able for Working Food members. There will be limited quantities available, so RSVP by Tuesday. Visit workingfood.org for more information.
What I Did this Summer: Seedy 
AdventuresMeet Melissa DeSa, a self-de-scribed local seed-aholic and 
biodiversity addict. Learn why 
seeds are important for our fu-ture and get a taste of the travels and connections that have been made over the last few years. The workshop will be held Oct. 23 from 6:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Forage & Working Food, located at 219 NW 10th Ave. The work-
shop is free to the public but do-
nations are always welcome at the door. Visit workingfood.org for more information. 
Samuel Proctor Oral History 
Program Pride events UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program is hosting a panel 
called “Queer in the Capital: 
DC Pride 2017 Fieldwork Trip Roundtable” for students to hold a multimedia presentation on their trip to Washington, D.C., for the Equality March for Unity and Pride. The panel will be Oct. 25 from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. in the second floor atrium of Ustler Hall 
on UF’s campus. 
UF Fulbright Information Session
UF Fulbright Programs is host-
ing “My Fulbright in 7 Minutes” on Oct. 26 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. at the UF International Center in the Hub. The event will be an opportunity to net-
work with U.S. and international 
Fulbright participants. Light re-freshments will be served. To register, please visit eventbrite.com and search by event title. For more information email mcardec@ufic.ufl.edu. 
Got something going on?
Want to see it in this space? Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to knewberg@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit the event before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the above events, and keep them to 
150 words or fewer. Improperly 
formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.
NEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor Katelyn Newberg, editor@alligator.org
 Managing Editor  Michael Smith, 
  michaelsmith@alligator.org   
 Metro Editor Meryl Kornfield, metro@alligator.org
 University Editor Romy Ellenbogen,
university@alligator.org
 Opinions Editor  Abigail Miller, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor Matt Brannon, sports@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor  Dylan Dixon, ddixon@alligator.org  
 alligatorSports.org Editor Jake Dreilinger, jdrellinger@alligator.org  
 Editorial Board Abigail Miller, Katelyn Newberg,   
  Michael Smith, 
Photo Editor Grace King, photo@alligator.org
 the Avenue Editor Natalie Rao, avenue@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief Amanda Price, Nealy Kehres
Copy Editors Victoria Gingras, Gabby Valenti,
  Dan Basalone, Alexia Schmidt,
  Jill Chabot, Katie Marshall
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
soconnor@alligator.org
Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
Intern Coordinator  Nicole Renuart, intern@alligator.org
Sales Representatives Lucy Baez, Ryan Chase, 
  Madelin Goldey, Bismarie Plasencia,   
  Valentina Sokolova, John Vianello 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Administrative Assistant Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
 Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
  dkradolfer@alligator.org
 Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
 Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
 President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
 Assistant Production Manager  Robert Carroll, rcarroll@alligator.org  
 Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker
 Editorial Production Staff  Jordan Bourne, Adam TurnerMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3
AUTO COLLISION EXPERTS
Certified T echnicians •  Student Discount Provided 
352.371.0215    33 SE 13th Road    gt-motorcars.netBy David Hoffman
Alligator Staff Writer
As Jessica Holmer gazed at 
Mary Parrish’s portrait Sunday, 
she said she felt inspired. 
Fifteen portraits outlined the 
front entrance of First Magnitude Brewing Company, located at 1220 SE Veitch St., from 3 p.m. to 
7 p.m. Sunday as part of the Pride 
Extravaganza fundraiser event for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program’s Florida Queer History Project. Holmer was one of about 
200 people who attended the fun-
draiser. 
Each portrait included a self-
told story from a person who at-
tended the Equality March for 
Unity and Pride at Washington, D.C., on June 11. The extravagan-za, which was First Magnitude’s ﬁ  rst queer-focused community 
event, raised about $1,300 for 
the queer history project from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Pro-gram. 
Holmer, a UF mass communi-
cation graduate student, paused as she walked in front of Parrish’s portrait and read her interview. Holmer said she identiﬁ  ed with 
Parrish’s story. 
“The way she says she had 
to learn about who she is her-
self through past experience and 
from others, that’s universal, no 
matter if it’s about your sexuality or anything you could be going 
through,” the 30-year-old said.
About nine UF students from 
the oral history program went to 
the Capital to interview attendees of the June Equality March for 
Unity and Pride, in collaboration 
with UF’s Center for Gender, Sex-uality and Women’s Studies Re-
search, said Robert Baez, the oral 
history program’s coordinator. 
After the trip to Washington, 
D.C., Baez said she and the other 
students who went to record in-terviews from the rally felt what 
they had collected was gripping enough to turn into a broader project. 
“We were wanting to take a 
conversation that’s happening on a national level right in our na-tion’s capital and really bring it to Gainesville to develop a sense 
of community and unity among 
the LGBTQ+ people here,” the 25-year-old said. 
Although the First Magnitude 
fundraiser was free to the public, tickets were available for dona-tion and included a free beer and discounted drinks for the rest of the evening, said Ben Guzman, 
the event coordinator for the 
brewery. Guzman said he thinks it’s important for venues like First Magnitude to help create open 
spaces in Gainesville to bring 
communities together. 
“I see us as more of a commu-
nity center that just happens to serve beer,” Guzman said. 
Katie Sonneman said she 
drove 35 minutes from Ocala on Sunday so her children could feel a sense of home and community 
at the event. 
Sonneman said last year, her 
15-year-old daughter, Orion, 
came out to her as lesbian. It was about three to four months ago 
when her 13-year-old son, Mar-
shall, expressed questions about his identity and started identify-ing as transgender. 
Sonneman said events like the 
Pride Extravaganza fundraiser as-sured her that Orion and Marshall won’t feel alone while discover-ing their identities.
“There’s nothing back home 
in Ocala for them,” she said. “It’s important for me as their mother to do what I can for them to ﬁ  nd 
places where they can feel open.” 
@hoffdavid123
dhoffman@alligator.org First Magnitude hosts fundraiser for queer history project
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
GOING GREATER
Students line up outside the O’Connell Center for the kickoff of UF’s “Go Greater” campaign on Friday. Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
Erica Merrell and her associate from Wild Iris Books, Florida’s ﬁ  rst feminist bookstore, laugh with 
patrons at the Pride Extravaganza event.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017By Iesha Jones
Alligator Contributing Writer
At the start of Saturday’s yoga class, 
the instructor, Maggie Rucker, gave par-
ticipants a yoga mat — and a wand.
Flow Space yoga studio, located at 
117 NW 16th Ave., hosted its first Harry Potter-themed class for about 37 stu-dents. The 8 p.m. class was based off of 
the first book in the series, “Harry Potter 
and the Sorcerer’s Stone.” A space in the class cost $22.
Alexandra Perfetti, a UF finance soph-
omore, said she read about the event on 
Facebook and wore a Harry Potter shirt 
to her first Flow Space yoga class.
“Harry Potter has a special place in 
my heart, so I had to make sure I came 
to this class,” the 19-year-old said.
Rucker, the Flow Space yoga studio 
manager and co-owner, wrote an inter-active script based on the first Harry Pot-
ter for the class. She wore a scarlet and 
gold tie, a black robe and Harry Potter’s 
signature round glasses. Rucker said she planned the October event to celebrate Halloween and made the wands herself.
“I saw the viral video of the Harry 
Potter yoga class in Toronto,” she said. “I jumped on the idea.”
Floating candles, purple cobwebs, 
handmade wands and chocolates shaped 
like Harry Potter’s golden snitch deco-
rated the studio.
Rucker said she hopes to base her 
next Harry Potter yoga class off of the second book, “Harry Potter and the 
Chamber of Secrets,” and eventually in-
corporate the entire series through mul-tiple classes.
“It was the most fun I’ve had teach-
ing a class, and I can’t wait to do it again,” she said. Yoga studio hosts Harry 
Potter-themed yoga class
By Rosanne Ramraj 
Alligator Contributing Writer
Paul Schulte wants students of all abili-
ties to have the opportunities he had.
Schulte, a five-time MVP in the National 
Wheelchair Basketball Association, spoke to 
UF students and faculty Friday about his ex-periences in wheelchair basketball. 
The Disability Resource Center sponsored 
the event, which took place in the Reitz Union. Schulte wants to work with the cen-ter to create a wheelchair basketball team at UF, he said.
“I wanted to come to gain an understand-
ing of the efforts students and staff have made so far in creating a team,” Schulte said. 
Schulte competed in the Paralympic 
Games in 2000, 2008 and 2012. He said 
bringing a wheelchair basketball team to UF 
will attract students who can improve the university. “Everything about the University of Flor-
ida screams having an active lifestyle, and 
everyone benefits from the relationship of an 
active lifestyle,” he said. “ I am happy that UF values stories like mine and actively tries to promote opportunities for their students.” 
Schulte said getting the proper wheel-
chairs for the team might pose a challenge. Wheelchairs for the game have wheels tilted at an angle, which lets them move faster than an ordinary wheelchair, he said.
Chelsea Richards, a 22-year-old UF me-
chanical engineering senior, said she at-tended the event to learn more about how the wheelchairs used in the sport are engi-neered. She said the event helped push for 
inclusive sports at UF.
“I learned that there are lots of possibili-
ties to accomplish your dreams, and you do 
not learn that until you set your mind to 
dream big,” she said. National Wheelchair 
Basketball MVP speaks at UF
Conservatory of Music of Puerto Rico–San Juan, PR
Inter American University of Puerto Rico: 
Universidad Metropolitana–Rio Piedras, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Aguadilla–Aguadilla, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Arecibo–Arecibo, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Carolina Regional 
College–Carolina, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Cayey University 
College–Cayey, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Mayaguez–
Mayaguez, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Ponce–Ponce, PR
University of Puerto Rico: Rio Piedras–San Juan, PRUniversity of Puerto Rico: Utuado–Utuado, PRUniversity of the Virgin Islands–St. ThomasLIST OF INSTITUTIONS UF WILL 
ACCEPT STUDENTS FROMACCENT SPEAKERS 
BUREAU WILL PAY 
HIM $27,500.
By Jimena T avel
Alligator Staff Writer
“Goosebumps” author R.L. Stine 
will visit UF on Oct. 24 in celebration 
of Halloween.
Accent Speak-
ers Bureau an-nounced the 
speaker Wednes-
day during their 
first event of the year.
The SG agency is paying Stine $27,500 for a speech and Q&A about the legacy of his books, what it feels like to be a top-
selling author and his creative pro-
cess, said Accent Chairwoman Shel-
by Buchanan.
Students can pick up tickets at 
noon Oct. 23 at the University Au-
ditorium. Each student can get two 
tickets with a valid Gator 1 Card. The 
general public can pick up tickets, if 
any are left, at the same location on 
Oct. 24. The event will be Oct. 24 at 
8 p.m. in the University Auditorium, 
located at 333 Newell Drive.
In their student survey, Buchanan 
said people requested either chil-dren’s authors or horror authors, and 
the bureau decided to mix both re-quests.
She said she thinks Stine’s visit 
will make students feel nostalgic.
“October is the month in the mid-
dle of the semester where everyone starts getting homesick, so we want-
ed to give people a warm and fuzzy feeling,” Buchanan said.
Alexandra Lanal, a UF telecom-
munication senior, said she start-
ed reading horror when she was 
6-years-old, and Stein was her favor-
ite author.
If she gets to ask him a question, 
Lanal said she’ll ask how he’s written 
so much.
“I can barely write an essay for a 
class, and here he is writing books all the time,” the 21-year-old said.Author R.L. Stine to speak at UF
Stine
Katelyn Newberg, Editor-in-chief: Night of the Living Dummy
Michael Smith, Managing Editor: The Cuckoo Clock of DoomMatt Brannon, Sports Editor: Beware of the Purple Peanut ButterNealy Kehres, Copy Desk Chief: Go Eat Worms!Jessica Giles, Local Govt. Writer: Stay Out of the BasementCamille Respess, UF Admin Writer: Say Cheese and Die!Romy Ellenbogen, University Editor: “I never read R.L. Stine,  because I hate fear.”FAVORITE BOOKS
Twin brothers Pedro G. Vega Agosto and Pedro M. 
Vega Agosto are considering applying to the program.
Their university, the University of Puerto Rico at 
Mayagüez, has been closed for about a month. Pedro 
G. said the school plans to open again on Oct. 30, but 
he doesn’t feel confident it will happen.
“My opinion is that, since there’s no communica-
tion nes open, I think it’s going to be a long shot,” said 
Pedro G., a 20-year-old biology junior.
If he takes classes through UF, Pedro. G. will enroll 
in biology II with a lab. 
Pedro G. said in the long-term he’d like to become 
a degree-seeking student at UF. 
On the other hand, Pedro M. is interested in taking 
courses with UF Online but said he wants to transfer the credits back to the University of Puerto Rico in-stead of staying at UF.
“It’s a feeling of nationality, and since my father 
graduated from there, too, I want to graduate from the same college that my father did,” said Pedro M., a 20-year-old accounting junior.
UF Online is currently working to provide Spanish 
translations for the classes, but Pedro G. and Pedro M. 
aren’t worried about that. 
“We’re bilingual, and I think we’re up for the chal-
lenge of a completely new experience,” Pedro M. said. COURSES,  from pg. 115 students applied
person Janine Sikes said part of the 
contract, which is a general con-tract used for most events hosted on campus by outside organiza-tions, doesn’t apply because the tickets aren’t being sold for a cost.
“This is (NPI’s) event. This is a 
private organization hosting a pri-vate event,” she said. “They get to dictate how and when tickets are distributed.”
After NPI announced it would 
distribute tickets on Thursday, Sikes said UF was not in the loop on the organization’s plans.
“We are not being consulted on 
what they are doing,” she said.
An organizer for the No Nazis 
at UF group, who asked to remain anonymous for their safety, said UF is playing word games with the contract. The group is holding a protest that will meet at South-west 34th Street and Southwest 20th Ave. and march to the Phillips Center the day of Spencer’s speech.
“We think it’s pretty ridiculous, 
especially since the agreement that 
NPI and administration made spe-
cifically said the university would 
handle all ticketing, so the fact is they’ve gone back on that agree-ment,” the organizer said.
The institute wants to give tick-
ets to both supporters and people 
who want to learn more about 
what Spencer will discuss, McLar-en said. He called the events the or-
ganization has held at Texas A&M 
University and Auburn University 
successful because there was an 
audience with diverse perspec-tives.
“That gives rise to dialogue that 
we are interested in,” he said. “We 
are just thinking of the end goal, to 
have a good event.”
McLaren said the institute will 
announce Thursday where and 
when it will distribute tickets.
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.orgTICKET,  from pg. 1Tickets available ThursdayMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
· CRIME ROUNDUP ·
GPD: Man arrested for throwing a 
shopping cart at another man
HE THREATENED TO HIT A MAN 
WITH A METAL ROD.
A Gainesville man was arrested Satur-
day night after he threw CVS baskets and 
a shopping cart at a man and yelled slurs 
at him, Gainesville Police said. 
Theo Lemuel Williams, 24, was sitting 
at a bus stop near CVS Pharmacy, located at 900 N. Main St., at about 5:53 p.m. when he yelled and called another man a “cracker and white racist,” according to an arrest report. 
Williams, a foreign citizen from the 
Bahamas, became agitated and began forcefully throwing CVS baskets and a shopping cart at the man, hitting him in the shoulder. In order to separate them-selves from Williams, the man and a wit-ness walked away, according to the re-port. 
A few minutes later, the man and wit-
ness were near 1000 N. Main St. when Williams confronted them again, this time holding a metal rod. Williams threatened to beat the man with the metal rod, ac-cording to the report. 
The man told police he was in fear for 
his life, but Williams dropped the metal rod and walked away. Williams told de-tectives he did not assault the man, ac-cording to the report. 
Williams was arrested on charges of 
aggravated assault and battery. He was 
taken to the Alachua County Jail where 
he remains, as of press time, in lieu of a $40,000 bond. 
- Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
UPD: UF student bought beer with 
stolen coworker’s ID, debit card
HE TOLD POLICE A FAKE NAME.
A UF student was arrested early Friday 
morning and told police he stole a co-work-
er’s driver’s license and debit card to buy 
beer, University Police said. 
Chandler Thomas Haines, 20, was out-
side of Graham Hall at about 2:35 a.m. 
when he told an ofﬁ  cer his name was 
“Mitchell Tyler Doll.” The ofﬁ  cer, who had 
found a wallet on the ground at the scene, 
looked in the wallet and found Haines’ driver’s license, as well as a debit card that belonged to Doll, according to an arrest re-
port. 
After the ofﬁ  cer read Haines his Miran-
da rights, Haines admitted he gave a fake 
name. He also said he stole the debit card and driver’s license from Doll, his co-work-
er, while they were at work, according to the report. 
He used the stolen driver’s license and 
debit card to purchase beer fewer than three times, he told police. Haines said Doll 
was unaware he was in possession of his 
drivers licence and debit card, according to the report. 
Haines is a student at UF, according to 
the UF directory. 
Haines was arrested on two counts of 
fraudulent impersonation and theft. He was taken to Alachua County Jail where he was released on his own recognizance 
Saturday morning. 
Haines declined to comment. 
- Catie Wegman
@catie_wegman
mwegman@alligator.org
GPD: Woman arrested for driving 
drunk on 34th Street
 
SHE CALLED THE FIELD SOBRIETY 
TESTS FUN..
A Gainesville woman was arrested for 
driving drunk after she turned the wrong 
way into trafﬁ  c on Southwest 34th Street 
and called ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises “fun” 
Saturday night, Gainesville Police said.
Brandie Lee Walker, 33, was turning 
right onto Southwest 34th Street from West University Avenue when a GPD of-ﬁ  cer watched her turn north into south-bound trafﬁ  c at about 12:36 a.m., accord-ing to an arrest report. The ofﬁ  cer pulled Walker over in the parking lot of Tires 
Plus.
The ofﬁ  cer asked Walker for her regis-
tration, and she struggled to ﬁ  nd it even 
though it was on her front passenger 
seat, police said. She stumbled over her 
words and smelled like alcohol.
She leaned on the ofﬁ  cer’s car for sup-
port and told police she had two beers at her house an hour before, according to 
the report.
Police said Walker smiled and giggled 
and called ﬁ  eld sobriety exercises fun. In 
one exercise, she estimated the passage 
of 30 seconds after 80 seconds, according 
to the report.
The ofﬁ  cer measured her blood alco-
hol content at the scene as .260 and .267, which is over three times the legal limit, 
according to the report.
Walker was arrested on a charge of 
driving under the inﬂ  uence and taken 
to the Alachua County Jail. She was re-
leased from the jail on her own recogni-
zance Saturday morning.
Walker could not be reached for com-
ment.
- Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
By Josephine Fuller
Alligator Contributing Writer
A local activist organization 
and alternative library will cel-ebrate 24 years of operation Fri-
day. 
The Civic Media Center will 
celebrate its 24th anniversary at 
the Matheson History Museum, 
located at 513 E. University Ave. 
The event, held from 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m., will include a key-note speaker, dinner, raffle and a silent auction, according to the 
center’s Facebook page.  Tickets cost $25 to $50 and are available 
on the Civic Media Center’s web-
site and can be purchased at the 
door the day of the event. 
James Schmidt, the interim 
coordinator for the CMC, said the center works on topics like free-
dom of speech and civil rights 
that affect Gainesville’s popula-tion. Schmidt started working for the center shortly after it opened, 
he said. 
“The issues that the groups 
who use the CMC are working 
on affect everyone in one way or another,” he said. “We are likely to be impacted in one way or an-other. It’s crucial that people get 
involved.”  
The CMC originally opened in 
a small room on West University 
Avenue. It moved to its current location, 433 S. Main St., in 2009.
The center hosts movie screen-
ings, Thursday poetry slams and space for local organizations to rent. 
“As a society, we need spaces 
like the CMC to provide spaces and opportunities to network and come together to argue and debate and act in solidarity,” Schmidt said.
The center also has a 10,000-
book library and an artist work-shop. It’s also affiliated with Wild Iris Books, located next door.
Carol Thomas, a local activist 
who started her career as a white ally of the freedom fighters dur-ing the 1960s Jim Crow period, will be the keynote speaker for 
the anniversary fundraiser.
Schmidt said Thomas was 
deemed the most dangerous 
woman in Gainesville by pro-segregation reactionaries.“She’ll be talking about her 
long life as an activist and her 
experience as a movement el-
der,” he said.
Nancy Coryell, a volunteer 
who works with the collections in the CMC library, said over the 
five years she’s been in the orga-
nization, it has stuck to its basic mission.
“It’s been nice to see the com-
munity come along and be more of a destination,” she said. “Once people know about the CMC, they usually want to come back.”
Civic Media Center to celebrate its 24th anniversary 
By Christopher Harris
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF researchers are working on literally 
planting seeds of change for the future of 
sustainable energy.
The National Institute of Food and Ag-
riculture granted $15 million to the South-
east Partnership for Advanced Renewables from Carinata (SPARC) to study the poten-
tial applications of oil from carinata seeds. 
The project, which began seven years ago and received the grant about three months ago, is directed by David Wright, a profes-sor in UF’s agronomy department.
“The oil quality is really what makes 
carinata great,” he said.
The seed’s oils would provide an al-
ternative to fossil fuels, Wright said. The chemical structure of the seed makes it ex-
cellent for production of jet fuel and diesel, 
as well as a protein supplement for live-stock feed, he said.
Carinata seeds have about 40 to 45 
percent oil, Wright said, as opposed to 18 percent in soybean seeds. It is also more tolerant of heat and droughts than canola, which makes it a more viable solution for 
growers.
The oil content is not the only beneﬁ  t 
carinata offers, Wright said. The project 
will evaluate the seed’s beneﬁ  ts to farm-lands in the colder months. Having seeds 
growing in the off-season can boost in-
come for farmers, he said.
“That has been one of our big goals — is 
to not only provide income for growers in 
the winter, but also to have a crop grow-
ing on the land to help reduce erosion,” Wright said.
While the seed may be the best option 
among other sources of biofuel, it will still have to compete in the market against big 
oil and other non-renewable resources, 
Wright said.
Jessica Webster, a 20-year-old UF plant 
science junior, said the competition raises 
concern about the potential product’s vi-
ability.
“I do think it’s going to be expensive 
at ﬁ  rst because it’s a new product,” said Webster, a 20-year-old UF plant science 
junior. “Not many farmers are inclined to 
change their habits, especially if they’ve gone through a famine.” Seed research project oﬀ  ers alternative to fossil fuels
The project got a $15 million federal grantThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classiﬁ  cation and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 1105 W. University Ave., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-
2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Editorial
ColumnMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
Katelyn Newberg
EDITORMichael Smith
MANAGING EDITORAbigail Miller
OPINIONS EDITORDon’t worry, even if you’re unsure of your happiness
We don’t want to be sad. I mean, 
you can’t really blame us. Why would we want to be sad? Being 
sad, anxious or upset means being 
uncomfortable. We ﬁ  ght to avoid 
discomfort and to ﬁ  nd that place where we feel comfortable. We want everything to be 
just so: nothing out of place, nothing left un-
accounted for. We make lists and check them off. We fulﬁ  ll obligations and settle into a rou-tine that is safe. We pursue happiness. After all, is that not the ultimate goal?
As millennials, we can be obsessed with ourselves. 
This sounds bad, but I don’t necessarily mean it in a bad way. We focus on developing ourselves, growing and changing and eventually settling exactly where we 
want to be — physically, mentally and philosophically. 
We are an idealistic bunch, and that is OK. However, we tend to put a lot of pressure on ourselves. I think the worst part is that in the effort of trying to become happy, we are standing in our own way.
I don’t know if anyone remembers this, but a few 
years ago, there was a joke that went around everyone referred to as “the Game.” And the only way to lose “the Game” was to think about the game. So, the only 
way to win was to not think about it. Therefore, if you 
were winning, you didn’t know you were winning. You only knew you were winning after you’d already lost. Clearly, this was a painful and kind of stupid phenom-enon, but as time has gone on, I’ve realized a lot of 
things in life are like this. You only really know and ap-
preciate something when it’s already gone and thinking hard about something can make it go away.
I think happiness is like this in a way. We can be 
happy, but when someone stares you in the face and says, “Are you happy?” it forces us to call this happi-ness into question. Am I happy? What is happy, really? How do I really know if I’m actually happy? You’d think you’d know, right? It shouldn’t be this difﬁ  cult. But when you think too hard 
about anything, you start to question your-
self, similar to if you see a word written over and over, and you start to question if that is how it’s actually spelled. 
The more I’ve sat and thought about 
whether I am happy, the more I’ve realized that true, undeniable happiness is harder and harder to come by. I think our biggest prob-lem is that we often unintentionally confuse 
happiness with joy. If we do this, we set impossible standards for ourselves. If you have ever read a col-umn of mine, ﬁ  rst of all, thank you. Secondly, you may recall I have drawn comparisons to concepts, such as 
passion to a ﬁ  re or a warm glow. The same can be said 
for love and for happiness. Sometimes, happiness is on ﬁ  re. It is powerful and undeniable and consumes us. Other times, it is a glow. It is there, but it is not all-con-suming. If asked whether it is there or not, you would 
say it is, but it is not all you can think about. I think 
we search for the ﬁ  re and think we are settling with the glow. They’re not the same, but I think joy feels so amazing that we want it all the time. However, like 
anything truly wonderful and mind-blowing, if we have 
it all the time, it’s not as good.
So, search for happiness. Keep pursuing it because 
all of us have the potential to achieve it. But don’t be discouraged if your happiness feels more like a calm 
state of contentment than a knock-you-off-your-feet joy. 
Contentment lasts longer and is often more fulﬁ  lling, and that is, after all, the ultimate goal.
Taylor Cavaliere is a UF journalism and psychology 
junior. Her column appears on Mondays.
We live in a society where sexual assault and abuse are 
not only too common but pretty much expected. We live in a society where those with power feel entitled to take what they assume they deserve. We live in a society where women are exploited. Worst of all, we 
live in a society that is allowing all of this to happen. Again. And again. And again.
The New York Times recently published an expose revealing 
prominent American ﬁ  lm producer Harvey Weinstein has been paying off his sexual harassment accusers for decades. The piece chronicles years of sexual harassment allegations against Wein-stein, at least eight of which ended in settlements.
Once the news of Weinstein’s less-than-admirable past had 
surfaced, The Weinstein Company, which he co-founded in 2005, 
immediately ﬁ  red him. Soon after, the Academy of Motion Pic-
ture Arts and Sciences voted to immediately expel Weinstein. We certainly wouldn’t say the ramiﬁ  cations for Weinstein’s actions were insigniﬁ  cant. Weinstein deserved to be ﬁ  red from his com-pany, he deserved to be expelled from the Academy and he abso-lutely deserved the insurmountable amount of public shame he has received. But are these precautions enough? Not even close.
The main aspect of Weinstein’s punishments we feel com-
pelled to touch on is the reasoning behind them. It seems to us 
his repercussions were administered so the organizations could 
maintain a favorable public appearance, not because they felt what Weinstein did was wrong.
We ﬁ  nd it unlikely these companies and organizations he 
worked closely with weren’t the wiser when it came to the truth behind these rumors. So why wait until now to reprimand him? The answer is because now, the public is watching and has proof.
Weinstein is not an anomaly. He does not represent a rare 
case or unique set of circumstances. He represents the norm, and 
the only way we will be able to change this norm is by fully pros-
ecuting the Weinsteins of the world. 
What Weinstein deserves is to be prosecuted. He deserves to 
be made an example to all other men in powerful positions who are exploiting their power. He deserves to be put on trial. He de-serves to face charges. He deserves to be reprimanded.
As explained in The New Yorker, these women took so long to 
come forward with their stories because of fear. Fear their careers and futures would be crushed. Fears their allegations would be 
seen as ﬁ  ctitious, dreamed up to get themselves attention in the 
media. Fear the abuse and harassment would only intensify.
The fear these women had is not uncommon and, like we said 
before, Weinstein is not an anomaly — he is the norm. When these types of men are let off the hook, other men think it’s OK to do the same. If there is not a moral inhibitor for these men when it comes to sexual abuse and harassment, what else is there to stop them? These powerful men aren’t going to prison. They aren’t being punished to the point where other people are scared 
of being punished in the same way, but they need to be.
The things Weinstein did to these women are unforgivable 
and horriﬁ  c. He raped them, exploited them and had them 
backed into a corner where they had nowhere else to turn, living in silence and anguish.
Weinstein deserves to be in prison, not walking the streets as 
a potential predator. The Weinsteins of the world will not stop until they have a reason. Dear reader, it’s time we start giving these people a reason to stop. It’s time we stop accepting sexual 
assault as the norm.It’s time we stop 
accepting sexual 
assault as the norm
T aylor 
Cavaliere
opinions@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017    ALLIGATOR   7
This week, I’m taking a 
brief breather from the ﬂ  urry of politics to dis-cuss a different topic near and dear to my 
heart: my all-time favorite books and movies that I have fondly deemed my “desert island ne-cessities.” In other words, if you stuck me on a deserted island and said, “Hey, Mia, here’s enough food and water to last you a week on your own, 
but you can only take three books and three 
movies along,” this is what I would bring. 
Yeah, I know it’s not realistic, but this is my 
column, OK?
First off, you should know I’m not par-
ticularly good at spending extended periods 
of time entirely by myself. I do enjoy my 
me time during busy weeks, the occasional long drives when I blast my Spotify playlists and don’t care who hears me sing along and the really quiet part of the morning when I wake up before anyone else. That being 
said, I get a lot of my energy from other 
people, so my desert island necessities have 
to compensate for this lack of socialization. 
Without further ado…
My Desert Island Books
Honestly, I could take the easy — and, 
let’s face it, somewhat true — way out and say the last three books of the “Harry Pot-ter” series, but where’s the fun in that? I think I’d need a rather diverse range of 
three books to keep my brain occupied. I 
choose “Pride & Prejudice” by Jane Austen for its hominess and romantic storytelling. At my core, I’m mostly a hopeless roman-tic who doesn’t always look it. If I’m cut off from human contact on a private island, you better believe I’ll need a love story to keep me entertained.
For my second pick, I’m going with 
“When Breath Becomes Air” by Paul Ka-lanithi. This book is poetic, deeply moving and extremely thought-provoking. I know it sounds cliche, but reading this did change me in a sense, opening my eyes to the beau-ty in even the most ordinary places. Penguin Random House published Kalanithi’s autobiog-raphy after he died of lung can-cer, and the book emphasizes 
gratitude and ﬁ  nding comfort in 
one’s life and one’s purpose. I can’t recommend it enough.
My third choice? “Harry Pot-
ter and the Deathly Hallows” 
by J.K. Rowling. You didn’t actually think I would leave all of my Harry Potter books 
behind, did you?
My Desert Island MoviesLet’s operate under the assumption, at 
the very least, I have a working television 
and DVD player, even if I don’t have the Wi-Fi to stream shows and ﬁ  lms with reck-
less abandon. What three movies would I 
take with me? First, “Lost in Translation,” a 2003 classic starring Bill Murray and Scar-lett Johansson. It features beautiful Tokyo aesthetics and an atypical friendship, and it gives me the same sense of hominess as 
mentioned before.
Next up, I’d want the 1974 ﬁ  lm “Blaz-
ing Saddles,” a hilarious Mel Brooks movie that totally satirizes the American West and 
Western ﬂ  icks. I laugh every single time I watch this movie. It is as hilarious as it is completely bizarre.
For my ﬁ  nal movie choice, I pick “50 
First Dates,” one of the corniest movies to come out of 2004, and that’s probably say-
ing something. I don’t know why I love this 
movie, so please don’t ask me to explain it. I was 8 years old when it came out, and I watched it each and every time I was sick as a kid (even though it was rated PG-13, whoops). I know every single scene, every Drew Barrymore outﬁ  t and Adam Sandler joke, yet I watch it every time it comes on.
So there you have it, my desert island 
necessities. What are yours?
Mia Gettenberg is a UF criminology and 
philosophy senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays. A white supremacist com-
ing to campus later this 
week has sparked calls 
for unity, but these only seem to falsely cover up 
divisions within our own campus communities. 
In response to the conﬁ  rma-
tion of Thursday’s event, many are taking this chance to empha-size how the UF campus is united. 
Unfortunately, it is still divided. To pretend 
otherwise is not only inaccurate but danger-ous. 
My question for those who want to fo-
cus on positivity and unity in the face of this event is simple. Where are you during 
the daily microaggressions and straight-up 
aggressions that marginalized communities face? There’s so much we can do as a cam-
pus to be more inclusive on a daily basis to 
combat white supremacy, but it’s essential we lose our fear of political engagement. 
With Richard Spencer coming to campus 
later this week, now is the time to speak out against racism and become more inclusive, 
not to ignore our problems by touting how 
diverse we are. Giving out lollipops to sym-bolize diversity isn’t enough. Bragging about 
diversity is just tokenism. Why not instead 
talk about actions that are being made to make UF more inclusive and help minority 
students succeed?  
Just as President Donald Trump’s both-
side-ism after Charlottesville was disgusting, it’s also not good to pretend like every Gator 
is inclusive and that we have no problems internally. 
Racism is even revealed within the class-
room. Just over a week ago, I was in one of my political science classes where someone 
alleged black people aren’t Republicans be-
cause they see military spending as taking away from welfare they feel they are owed. 
Another student brought up the idea of peo-
ple being tired of the “race card.” 
Beyond these events in class, there have 
been instances of overt and aggressive rac-ism on campus. Just within the past year, there was a man on campus wearing a swas-tika armband and dancers for Gator Adaa were harassed during 
practice.  
While it’s great to say we’re 
all in this together, we have to ac-knowledge there are ways white 
supremacy is upheld right here on campus. It’s in our Student 
Government “system”, or those 
passive-aggressive remarks by freshmen who feel their spot at 
Harvard was taken by a person of color. It’s also the uproar white students created when the Black Cultural Living Learning Commu-
nity was created, despite the UF Housing 
and Residence Education department being clear that students of any race could live 
there.
We conveniently forget these examples 
of racism when we want to seem “together.” I would love to say that the UF community is 
united against racism, but that just isn’t the case. While it’s true that many at UF have 
called out Spencer’s ideology, UF also has 
its own white supremacy to deal with from within. To assume that every Gator loves di-
versity and inclusivity is naive. 
Spencer will come and go, but that 
doesn’t mean we can just move past this is-sue. No matter how together you think the 
university is, there are Gators who voted for Trump and Gators who will probably 
show up to support Spencer. The students 
who do this will be here long after Spencer leaves. How will we deal with them? How 
will we deal with students who harbor 
white supremacist attitudes but would not align themselves with Spencer? The possibil-
ity of violence at this event makes it scary, 
but Spencer’s arrival is just a symptom of a problem. Being inclusive is more important 
than seeming like one united group.  
The truth is UF is not united on the is-
sues of racism and white supremacy. Let’s not pretend we are. 
Nicole Dan is a UF political science and 
journalism senior. Her column appears on 
Mondays.A comprehensive look at my desert 
island necessitiesLet’s talk about the white supremacy 
that's in our own backyardColumn Column
Nicole Dan
opinions@alligator.org
Mia Gettenberg
opinions@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
Richard Spencer’s visit 
is not required by the First 
Amendment 
With the election of President Donald 
Trump, we have seen racism rise to the 
level of respectability. 
Under the threat of a federal lawsuit, 
UF President Kent Fuchs has agreed to let white supremacist Richard Spencer speak at UF on Thursday. As a UF faculty member and the mother of a UF student, I strongly disagree with Fuchs’ decision to let Spencer hold this event. 
We all know Spencer’s desires for eth-
nic cleansing and for the U.S. to be a white nation. He stated, for instance, “Martin Luther King Jr., a fraud and degenerate in his life, has become the symbol and 
cynosure of White Dispossession and the 
deconstruction of Occidental civilization.” 
He also stated, “Our dream is a new so-
ciety, an ethno-state that would be a gath-
ering point for all Europeans. It would be 
a new society based on very different ide-als than, say, the Declaration of Indepen-dence.” He doesn’t believe in equality but in white superiority and has emphatically 
stated, “All men are created unequal.” 
UF’s decision was based on the First 
Amendment which allows hate speech, 
but there are forms of speech that are not 
protected. These include speech that pres-
ents imminent physical danger and dis-rupts UF’s mission to educate. 
UF’s website states: “We cannot pro-
hibit groups or individuals from speaking in our public forums except for limited ex-
ceptions, which include safety and securi-
ty. Our decision to disallow the September event was based on specific threats and a date that fell soon after the Charlottes-ville event. Allowing Spencer to speak in 
October provided additional time to make 
significant security arrangements.” 
But safety and security have been al-
ready compromised. The website ac-knowledges this, as it states, “We under-stand that this event and possible protest provokes fear, especially for members of 
our Gator family who are targets of mes-
sages of hate and violence simply because of their skin color, religion, culture, sex-ual orientation or beliefs. Faculty have been asked to be understanding with stu-
dents on a case-by-case basis. However, 
faculty should not cancel classes without consulting with their Dean.” 
Clearly, faculty have to excuse stu-
dents who fear for their safety by attend-ing classes Thursday. By the same token, faculty and staff who fear for their safety should not be forced to work that day. What this amounts to is an admission that 
Spencer’s visit is completely interrupting 
the educational mission of UF, but never-theless UF is allowing him to come. 
Indeed, UF has announced the Depart-
ments of Entomology and Nematology will be closed Thursday because of their prox-imity to the Phillips Center for Perform-ing Arts, located at 3201 Hull Road. The Counseling & Wellness Center, located at 
3190 Radio Road, will also be closed. It is 
exactly the kind of disruption which is not covered by the First Amendment. 
Despite the fact UF has increased its 
security, there is no guarantee everyone will be safe. “Alt-right” followers shot someone at the University of Washington, stabbed two people to death in Portland, Oregon, stabbed to death a college senior in Maryland, beaten nonviolent protest-ers at the University of Virginia and most recently murdered a protester in Charlot-
tesville, Virginia. 
UF simply cannot expose the almost 
50,000 Student Body and 3,000 staff and 
faculty to this kind of danger, nor can UF 
afford the lawsuits that would surely en-
sue if a single student is hurt. 
Having University Police, Gainesville 
Police, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, Florida Department of Law Enforcement, 
Florida Highway Patrol and other agen-
cies provide the $500,000 for security is outrageous. This is taxpayer money, and surely they should not have to pay for 
the disruption this event is causing. The 
Harn Museum of Art, located at 3259 Hull Road, and the Florida Museum of Natural History, located at 3215 Hull Road, which are both facilities used by the community 
at large, are going to be closed Thursday, 
and the community is paying to give up its rights to use these public facilities. 
It would be in the best interest of the 
safety of the community of Gainesville and its economic interests to not allow Spencer to come. 
Malini Schueller is a UF professor in the 
Department of English. 
U Matter, the CWC Matters
Upon reading the article about UF’s 
Counseling & Wellness Center fee propos-al being denied, I felt deeply disappointed. 
“Affordability is of the utmost importance 
to our students.” Really? 
College is one of the few, if not the 
only, opportunity for people to have free 
access to individual counseling, group 
therapy sessions and so forth. Once we’re pushed into adulthood, it’s not guar-anteed our insurance will cover mental health treatments or that we’ll have time 
to seek out a counselor while working at  
whatever job we manage to scrounge in this economy. 71.4 cents per credit hour now is truly nothing compared to the $150 
appointments one may have to pay later 
in life.
I am writing this letter because I am 
one of the lucky ones.
I started seeing a counselor at the be-
ginning of the Summer 2017 semester and clicked with them right away. Counseling sessions were never easy, but they got me through the semester. When things got 
rough, I was referred to UF Psychiatry. I 
was scared I would have to pay a lot for appointments and medications because I was doing all these things alone. Due to cultural stigmas about mental illness, I 
could not use my parents’ insurance in 
fear of being found out. Thankfully, UF’s health fee covered my appointment costs, and a good nurse showed me how to get 
my prescription at a low price.
Those who have never had their mental 
health take a hit do not understand how 
much time it takes away from you. Three weeks to wait for a triage appointment is 
three weeks of uncertainty. Life goes on 
while that person waits for the resources they need. 
Would UF want its students looking 
back at their college experience and won-dering why they didn’t get help sooner (or at all)? If “every Gator counts,” they would be taking care of their students not only academically and physically, but mentally as well. Confronting our men-
tal health now leads to a more successful 
adulthood and an increase in quality of life overall.
For those who are discouraged by what 
they hear in regard to the difficulty of get-ting an appointment with the CWC, there are options. 
If you can’t get a triage and things are 
becoming too much, there are walk-in 
counselors available at both the Peabody 
Hall (3rd Floor) and Radio Road locations Monday to Friday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
If you ever need to talk to someone 
outside of those hours, you can call the Alachua County Crisis Center at 352-264-6789, or text HOME to the Crisis Text Line at 741-741.
You have options. People do care.
Cheyenne Cheng is a UF psychology and 
statistics junior.
SG kills mental health 
funding: A travesty of 
priorities
I strongly condemn the actions of the 
four Student Government officials on the 
local fee committee who recently struck 
down a possible increase of much-needed 
funding for the Counseling & Wellness Center, located at 3190 Radio Road.
The question at hand was whether to 
raise student fees by 71.4 cents per credit hour so the CWC could pay the 12 coun-selors it plans to hire over the next four years. The answer from SG was an incom-prehensible no.
I mean, making sure our students have 
mental health counselors to go to if they need help? Who on Earth would do that?
I guess not SG.
Look, I take 12 credit hours to strike 
a good balance with my minimum wage 
jobs. That means each semester, this fee increase would have resulted in me pay-ing an additional $8.57 — HOLD UP, HOW 
DARE I PAY AN EXTRA EIGHT DOLLARS 
PER SEMESTER TO MAKE SURE MY FRIENDS HAVE FREE, ACCESSIBLE MEN-TAL HEALTH COUNSELING.
Oops. Sorry about that. It’s not like I could make up the differ-
ence by working one extra hour. 
It’s not like I could save $8 this semes-
ter by using my Gator Greenbacks coupon 
book. 
It’s not like if I asked a friend for $8, 
they would help me out, no questions 
asked. 
It’s not like I’m one of the privileged 
few who has found more than $8 on the ground.
Maybe I actually want my student fees 
to go up by $8 so my friends can get the 
help they need.
Maybe the current SG administration’s 
addiction to the mantra of not raising stu-
dent fees will come around to hurt the stu-
dents they are supposed to represent.
Maybe we could have voted for the fee 
increase and reduced the CWC’s overhead 
payment.
Maybe the current SG administration 
should have asked for our opinions before purporting to act on our behalf.Maybe every additional day the CWC 
doesn’t have permanent funding for new 
counselors is another day a student who 
needs help doesn’t get it.
Maybe it seems as if SG acts as if every 
Gator counts, unless you have to spend an extra $8 per semester.
Maybe it is that when it came down to 
lives versus dollars, SG pointed toward their pocketbooks.
But, hey, at least we have that music 
festival next semester, right?
Today, I’m ashamed to be a part of SG. 
We need to do better.
If you feel strongly about this, come 
down to the Senate meeting Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Reitz Union Chambers 
and speak during public debate. Contact me ahead of time at zchou@ufl.edu so I can brief you on how it works and make 
sure you get the maximum time possible 
to share your story.
Zachariah Chou is the SG senator (Inspire 
Party) for the Murphree Area and 
Minority Party Leader.
Editor’s note: Zachariah Chou formerly 
worked as a paid photographer for the 
Alligator.
It’s in the NPI’s interest to 
avoid violence
There appears to be a collective angst 
looming over campus as preparation con-tinues for Richard Spencer’s arrival on 
campus Thursday. I’ve already witnessed 
students discussing the notion of skip-ping class, fearing some faceless, name-less harm will do them injury. I empathize 
with this concern, especially for first-year 
students new to campus life. 
However, as professionals in training, 
stall your panic and consider the alterna-tive that violence is against Spencer’s in-
terests on campus.
 Conceived as a left-(alt)-right divide, 
the liberal element of campus stands to 
benefit more from potential violence 
breaking out at the event. It confirms the 
existing narrative of Spencer and sets a precedent to bar controversial groups from speaking on campus in the future. 
This does a disservice to conservative 
Gators that want their views represented by guest speakers. 
Despite the concerns of the adminis-
tration, Spencer has greater incentive to 
promote peaceful discourse and avoid 
conflict. However, this does not negate the unenviable position of UF President Kent Fuchs at present — the need to bal-ance the pressures of potential liability, 
the scrutiny of national coverage and the 
concerns of Gators arguing over the Na-tional Policy Institute’s right to set foot on campus — an impossible position.
I do not think the administration wants 
conflict any more than the next individu-al, but the benefits are apparent. I encour-age all within the Gainesville community to remain safe and level-headed through-
out the coming week and extend your 
gratitude to all those in law enforcement seeking to honor our First Amendment. 
Gregory Muller is a UF student.Letters to the EditorMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
KAYA SURVIVED
HER PREMATURE BIRTH!   
© 2017 March of Dimes Foundation
Sign up at marchforbabies.org
Gators March for Babies
Sunday, November 19, 2017  
Registration: 1:00 p.m.   Start: 2:00 p.m. 
 
UF Campus, Turlington Hall, Gainesville 
marchforbabies.org/event/gators
THE PROGRAM COMBINES CARE 
AND EDUCATION FOR PATIENTS.
By Gaby Eseverri
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF Health Shands Hospital will begin 
a new program in early 2018 to provide 
clinical and educational expertise to pa-
tients with smell disorders. 
The program is being developed through the combined efforts of physi-
cians in UF Health’s Department of Oto-laryngology — the study of the ear, nose and throat — and researchers with UF’s 
Center for Smell and Taste. 
Steven Munger, director of the UF Cen-
ter for Smell and Taste, that a smell dis-
order is anything that impacts your sense 
of smell. Five to 15 percent of the popula-
tion have some level of a smell disorder, or about 16 million people in the U.S.“A smell impairment is silent,” Mung-
er said. “You can’t tell if someone has it unless they tell you.”
Patients will be able to go to the clinic, 
located at 200 SW 62nd Blvd., for a diag-nosis. The clinic is a combination of care and educational and emotional support, Munger said. 
The program will work with patients 
throughout their life to improve their standard of living, he said. Kelly Allocco said she misses the 
smells of coffee brewing and bacon siz-zling ever since a sinus infection left her without her senses of smell and taste. 
She said she’s excited for the center’s re-
search.
“The sad thing is no one can tell you if 
you will ever regain your sense of smell,” 
Allocco said. “There is no treatment and 
little research,”UF Health develops new program for smell disordersLindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
FEASTING ON CRABS
Crab Feast T our focuses mainly on large seafood festivals. They are based out 
of downtown Orlando and came to Gainesville on Sunday to branch out in preparation for a big seafood festival in March.
Lindsey Crown / Alligator Staff
LEFT : Chef Chris Smith prepares potatoes, sausage and corn to be served with crab at Depot 
Park, located at 200 SE Depot Ave., on Sunday  for Crab Fest. 
RIGHT: Crab chef Desmond Bridges holds a crab that he got out of the St. Johns River on 
Sunday. 
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
STRIVE HELD THE EVENT 
WITH 12 PARTNER 
ORGANIZATIONS.
By Emily Nolan
Alligator Contributing Writer
Students grabbed free suc-
culent T-shirts with the phrase 
“Love Shouldn’t Hurt” and 
swarmed around buckets of col-
ored dye Friday. 
Sexual Trauma/Interpersonal 
Violence Education was holding 
its annual Healthy Relationships 
Fair on the Plaza of the Americas from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., where stu-dents earned the cactus T-shirts. The event was created to educate 
students about healthy relation-
ships and teach them about re-sources to pursue safe relation-ships, said Marie McGrath, a 
STRIVE lead peer educator.
Students could earn stamps by 
visiting tables where partner or-
ganizations, like the Planned Par-enthood Federation of America and University Police’s Office of Victim Services, distributed infor-
mation on healthy relationships. 
After six stamps, students traded their card in for the T-shirt and  the chance to tie-dye it.
McGrath said each of STRIVE’S 
12 partner organizations dis-played different messages unique to their group. She said the STRIVE table was focused on pop 
culture’s message about relation-
ships.
McGrath, a 25-year-old UF po-
etry graduate student, said pop 
culture reinforces the idea that 
a good and exciting romantic re-lationship needs to be turbulent and filled with jealousy, which she said is incorrect.
“When in reality, if you are 
honest and open with your part-ner, and you communicate your feelings, that’s what a healthy 
relationship looks like,” McGrath 
said.STRIVE taught students the 
four main components to a healthy relationship are honesty, 
communication, trust and re-
spect, McGrath said.
According to a survey from 
2014, 11 percent of UF students 
reported having been involved in 
a violent relationship, McGrath said.
McGrath said the goal of 
STRIVE’s fair was to bring aware-
ness to the fact unhealthy, violent 
relationships happen on college campuses and to empower stu-dents to take action against them.
Lauren Day, a UF psychology 
and education junior, said it was important for students to attend the fair.
“We don’t really realize how 
many resources we have here at UF and in the Gainesville commu-nity,” the 20-year-old said. “There are people that are here for you if 
you are in a bad relationship, and 
they want to help.”Pop-up fair promotes healthy relationships between students
Courtesy to the Alligator
Marie McGrath, a STRIVE lead peer educator, tells students about 
the fair’s T-shirts. “We had this idea for the cactus shirt, because a) succulents are so hot right now, ” McGrath said. “Also, you can have prickly feelings, but that doesn’t mean you have to hurt your partner. ”
IT WAS THEIR SECOND EVENT 
OF THE SEMESTER.
By Shelby Cohron
Alligator Contributing Writer
As  David Fisher counted down the sec-
onds to 11:20 a.m., a crowd of about 1,000 
students inched closer to the rows of plants at his feet. 
Collegiate Plant Initiative, a student-run 
nonprofit focused on connecting students with plants and horticulture, hosted their second plant drop of the semester Friday on Turlington Plaza. The group drove trucks and vans filled with free plants to give away. 
The nonprofit passed out more than 
1,000 plants at the potato statue on Turling-ton Plaza at exactly 11:20 a.m. Friday, said Virginia Frazier, a 20-year-old food and re-source economics junior and executive di-
rector of Collegiate Plant Initiative. At the 
first plant drop, the organization passed out 212 plants in six minutes.
Fisher, a 19-year-old UF plant breeding 
and genetics sophomore, said Collegiate Plant Initiative passed out 12 varieties of UF coleus plants, like Gator Glory and Al-ligator Tears, that were bred by Dave Clark, the UF professor of the Plants, Gardening and You class.
The club gave away 1,100 plants in un-
der six minutes, which exceeded their goal of giving out 1,000 plants in under 30 min-utes, Frazier said.
“I think this is five times or 10 times big-
ger than the first plant drop,” Frazier said. 
“When we got there the mindset was, ‘Go 
go go! We have to get these plants out be-fore people get here!’” 
As the organization’s volunteers set up 
rows of plants around the potato statue, a large crowd started to form, Frazier said. The volunteers finished setting the plants up just before they were swarmed with stu-dents reaching for plants.Alberta, one of the UF mascots, also 
attended the event, said Megan Rogers, a 19-year-old UF zoology sophomore. Peo-ple continued to go to the statue after the event, only to find the plants gone. Rogers was one of the last people to grab a coleus plant. 
Michael Hernandez-Garcia, a 19-year-
old UF microbiology and cell science sopho-more, found out about the plant drop when Rogers texted him. He said he planned to use his free plant to decorate his house. 
“I think this is a great organization, and 
the purpose that they are serving for the community is really good,” Hernandez-Garcia said. 
UF group hands out more than 1,000 free plants in six minutes By Morgan McMullen
Alligator Contributing Writer
When Cassidy Littrell, 4, won 
a pie-eating contest Sunday at 
Lucky’s Market, she said she 
would spend her winnings on 
candy.
Littrell beat five other children 
in the contest and won a $10 gift 
card to the store, located at 1459 
NW 23rd Ave. Using her fingers, she nearly finished the half of a pumpkin pie in front of her and said she still wasn’t full. The pie-
eating contest was part of a fall-
themed event hosted by the store from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Hank Barr, the store director at Lucky’s, said 
it was the first time the store had 
put on an event like this.
“We wanted to do something 
good for the community, for the kids to come out,” Barr said.
Five adults also raced to finish 
a full pumpkin pie in an adult con-test before the children’s competi-tion. After six minutes and 29 sec-onds, Steven Edvalson, 27, took the last bite from his pie tin and 
won a $20 gift card to the store. 
Edvalson said he had never com-peted in a food-eating contest be-fore. 
“Eat the crust first, because that 
takes the chewing, and that’s when you have all the moisture in your mouth,” Edvalson said. “Once you get that all down, everything else 
just goes down easier.”
After allowing the dessert to 
settle in his stomach, Edvalson 
said he didn’t think he was going to be sick. 
“I’m feeling OK,” Edvalson 
said. “I don’t want anything else right now, but I think I’m good.” 
The store’s cafe gave out about 
150 pumpkins. Patrons decorated their pumpkins with paint, googly eyes, pipe cleaners and glitter.
Amelia Towers, 4, covered her 
pumpkin in purple, red, pink and 
black paint.
“Put some of the thingies on it,” 
Towers said. “The ghost stickers.” Lucky’s hosts pie-eating contest, pumpkin decorating
Morgan McMullen / Alligator Contributor
Steven Edvalson raises his hands in victory after finishing his pumpkin pie on Sunday at Lucky’s Market. 
Edvalson ate his pie in fewer than seven minutes during a pie-eating contest at the grocery store. 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator 
Classifieds and save yourself some cash. 
Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile 
home and much more in the ALLIGATOR 
CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible 
buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over 
the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT 
PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE 
AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-
Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35511-8-43-5
Lake Property Foreclosure Resale $29,900Before foreclosure sold for $112,900.Award winning gated community.Being sold off Oct. 21st!Video: www.LakeLotsCloseout.com1-844-826-9565Florida Waterfront Marketing, LLC.Licensed Real Estate Broker    10-13-1-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.
BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    3-28-167-6SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       3-28-167-6
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
3-28-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      3-28-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-8-17-43-10 Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     1-8-43-10
Live & Online Public AuctionThursday, October 19th at 10 AMRS &amp;E Holdings, Inc.d/b/a Distinctive Field Services1883 Marina Mile Blvd, Ste 106,Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315Sale will consist of Commercial Vehicles including Dump Trucks, Commercial Lawn Equipment, Carpet Cleaning Equipment, Hand Tools, Generators, Air Compressors and more!Catalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.comAssignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case #2017-019114- CA-01 (05)Preview: 1 hour prior to sale - 15%-18% BP - $100 refundable cash deposit to register(800) 840-BIDS info@moeckerauctions.comAB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin     10-13-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00- MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill- Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com  1-800- 578-1363 Ext.300N
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
1-8-17-43-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
1-8-17-43-11
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/
classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
1-8-43-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
Bring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352- 375- 9090                    1-8-43-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                  1-8-43-12
Sun City Auto SalesBring W-2Drive home today!! Free one year oil change$1000 discount off the finest pricewww.sunriseautosale.net 352-338-1999                     1-8-43-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-12
1990 300 CE Mercedes Benz coupe.
Photos available. Call for price. 386-3772    10-16-5-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
1-8-43-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       
1-8-17-43-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                   3-28-15-167-2
1BR/1BA & 2BR/1BA UNITS
Fully remodeled 2017. Walk to UF/Shands. Granite countertops & SS appliances.SW Cottages $700-$950.J&S Commercial Real Estate 352-363-0132    11-1-17-21-2
2BR 1BA Available Now
$790 per month including water
Call 352-870-2760 to view today
10-23-17-12-2
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classified3 Sublease 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     11-13-17-42-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-8-17-43-14
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     11-3-17-134-14Looking for self motivated individuals to join my team to share amazing biotech device which helped me to walk again without dis-comfort. Set your hours. Help others with their health.  Great for athletes. Training pro-vided. Well established throughout Florida, with international and career potential. Complementary animal line for horse afi-cionados. Work with UF MBA in local office. Internships available. 941-345-7705 orberramarshall@yahoo.com    1-8-17-40-14
LPN required to care for elderly woman. Responsibilities include meal preparation, skin care routine, medication, blood pres-sure and more. Care need for daytime hours. If interested, please contact Lori at lorikw99@gmail.    10-13-10-14
Now Hiring Foreman, Stone Masons & Tenders. Foreman must have 5-8 yrs exp. w/ all phases of masonry, be computer literate, physically capable to do job and have proven track record w/ references. Stone masons must have 5 yrs. exp. & tenders must have 2 yrs. exp. Contact Shelley between 8:00am-5:00pm. @ 352-636-1431  DFWP.   10-13-17-5-14
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
HELP WANTED  PART TIMEStudents OnlyYard Work/Odd Jobs & ErrandsStarts at $10.00 per hour.Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com       10-18-17-6-14
Construction Laborers Needed!!Temp. Agency. Daily PayCall 352-505-0503 www.allfloridapersonnel.com       10-18-17-6-14.
Assistant to job foreman needed for masonry company. Duties incl.paperwork, operate mobile scaffold & general clean up. Bi-lingual a plus. DFWP. Call Shelley at 352-636-1431.    10-13-17-4-14
Driver NeededMust be 25+ yr old. Avail M,W,F 3:00-6:00pmT,R, 11:30-6pmApply online @ SIMEDHealth.com    10-29-17-9-14
BOOKKEEPING INTERN.
$15 hr/4 hrs a week.Family business in Alachua.Send resume to biopressadmin@gmail.com      10-27-17-7-14
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
15 Services
Do you have a business that provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience 
Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     8-21-
17-25-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one week-
end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.
expresstrainingservices.com/ww   1-8-17-43-
15
AVIATION Grads work with JetBlue, United, Delta and others- start here with hands on training for FAA certification. Financial aid if qualified. Call Aviation Institute of Maintenance 888-242- 2649.    10-13-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
7-3-17-108-16
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
1. Hall of Famers Tony Gwynn and 
Rod Carew combined for how many 
batting-average titles?
2. How many home runs did Babe 
Ruth hit in World Series play?
3. Who is the only football coach to 
lead the University of North Carolina 
to multiple ACC championships?
4. Bismack Biyombo set a Toron-
to Raptors record in 2016 for most 
rebounds in a playoff game (26). Who had held the mark?
5. The Minnesota Wild set a fran-
chise record in the 2016-17 NHL sea-son for victories (49). What had been the team’s highest total?
6. In 2016, Claressa Shields became 
the sixth American to win the Val Barker Trophy for best boxer in the Olympic tournament. Name three of the five others.
7. Si Woo Kim, in 2017, joined three 
others as the only PGA golfers in the past 25 years to win two tournaments before the age of 22. Name two of the three others to do it.
Answers
1. Fifteen — Gwynn with eight and 
Carew with seven.
2. He appeared in 10 World Series, 
and hit a total of 15 home runs.
3. Bill Dooley (1971, ‘72, ‘77).4. Jonas Valanciunas grabbed 19 
rebounds in a playoff game earlier in 2016. 
5. The Wild won 48 games in the 
2006-07 season.
6. Louis Laurie (1936), Norvel Lee 
(1952), Howard Davis Jr. (1976), Paul Gonzales (1984) and Roy Jones Jr. 
(1988).
7. Sergio Garcia, Jordan Spieth and 
Tiger Woods.
© 2017 King Features Synd., Inc.
October 9, 2017King Features Weekly Service
13 Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services
Reduce your showertime by 2 minutes.
PRESERVE WATERTICK.TOCK.MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   13 
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to 
share a common interest with or for your true 
love 
Livelinks is the best chatline for meeting real, 
fun-loving singles. Call 855-334- 7726 and make a real connection.      10-13-1-19Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in 
the classifieds to find trip arrangements or 
show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-
FIND
24 Pets
Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
 IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?
DO YOU HAVE A SPECIAL
ANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
WAS YOUR ROOF DAMAGED 
BY HURRICANE IRMA?
THE ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS CAN PROVIDE TEMPORARY REPAIRS TO YOUR ROOF. OPERATION BLUE ROOF CAN INSTALL A TEMPORARY ROOF 
COVERING ON STANDARD SHINGLED 
ROOFS AT NO COST. CALL 1-888- ROOF-
BLU FOR MORE INFORMATION.      10-
9-9-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
2-14-167-21
COMEDY CLUB Not Needed! Go To:   https://shortstoriesforthetwisted.com/ Enjoy!                                            10-20-4-21
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
ACROSS
1 Yanks’ foes
5 Operation
designed to hurt
10 Shipboard
resident
14 CFO, e.g.15 Not as likely to
mess up
16 Walk without
gettinganywhere?
17 TW ...20 Shoelace site21 Shipboard chums22 Tenn. neighbor24 Apartment listing
abbr.
25 DCYC ...34 Nice with?
35 Gobs and gobs
36 Cart for heavy
loads
37 Filly’s brother38 Fighter eulogized
by Bill Clinton,among others
39 Old-time teacher40 “The Grapes of
Wrath” figure
41 Beams43 Prime real
estate?
44 CI ...47 Downed a sub,
say
48 In-law’s wife,
possibly
49 Refrigerates53 One of a biblical
ten
58 AGT ...62 Like quality beef63 One “sitting
lonely on theplacid bust,” in aclassic poem
64 Course with
relevant tangents
65 Regular guys66 Finals, e.g.67 Spot
DOWN
1 “Star Wars”
warrior
2 Nerve cell part3 Cravings4 Ewan McGregor,
for one5 They’re often free
6 Sched. question
mark
7 Kind8 Once called
9 Sir Georg Solti’s
record 31
10 Rotating rod
11 Conduct12 Hurting13 Puts money (on)18 Dash19 Not at all
reflective
23 On the lam24 Backs up a
videotape
25 Cobb salad
ingredient
26 Bring to mind27 Composer
Mendelssohn
28 Good-sized
wedding band
29 Prefix for “sun”30 Madison Ave.
pitchers
31 Carpentry, e.g.32 Worries33 Church numbers
41 Reacted to an
arduous workout42 Shoes without
laces
45 Gymnast’s
powder
46 Ibiza, por
ejemplo
49 Key of the finale
of Brahms’
Symphony No. 1
50 “Les Misérables”
author
51 “Now it’s clear”52 Old Fords54 Hard-working
colonizers
55 Spice Girl
Halliwell
56 Second, e.g.57 Sharp side
59 Reach capacity,
with “out”
60 Actress 
Mendes
61 President pro __
By Morton J. Mendelson©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/13/1710/13/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, October 13, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.comACROSS
1 Part of BYOB
and MYOB
4 Band name with
a lightning bolt
slash
8 Unlike a couch
potato
14 T’ai __
15 Afrikaans
speaker
16 9Lives mascot17 *What may put a
fire in the belly?
19 Makes room on,
as a schedule
20 Window part
21 Mother of Pollux
23 She plays
Crawford in FX’s
“Feud”
24 *Commuter
entertainment
source
27 Regards with
surprise
30 Sped31 Botch32 Miracle-__33 One teaspoon,
e.g.
37 Sponsor’s array
38 *Slick trick
42 Pampering place43 Lets hit them45 Pi follower
46 Heroism
48 In-land link?
50 Leopardlike cats
52 *Pre-release
programs
56 Not right
57 Commuter’s
expense
58 Staff symbol
62 Metaphorical
state of agitation
64 What young
people may sow... and what’s
literally hidden in
the answers to
starred clues
66 Like most
Chaplin films
67 “Uh-huh”68 By way of
69 Gives a heads-up70 Drag racing gp.71 Prompt a
correction
DOWN
1 “Draft Dodger
Rag” folk singer2 Stop on the trail
3 Quibbles4 “Defending
Liberty, PursuingJustice” org.
5 Might’ve
6 Con man’s forte
7 Set of beliefs8 “The Walking
Dead” channel
9 Nab
10 Pressure-__11 Like two-time
Oscar-winningdirector AsgharFarhadi
12 Late summer
sign
13 Steel city near
Cologne
18 Bit22 Orbit City pooch25 Starting26 One in a cel
block
27 FBI guy
28 Assistant
29 “Wanna hear a
secret?”
32 ’60s-’70s Pontiac
34 City that hosts an
annualNorwegian Woodmusic festival35 Blind __
36 Elephant
flappers
39 Singer Guthrie40 Golf club part
41 Even once
44 Cutting-edge
horror film?
47 Olds compact49 Approval50 Wide-eyed and
wise-looking
51 Telemarketer52 Light wood53 It’s often
distributed in cc’s
54 Sir or sri55 Haul to the shop59 Nesting site60 Ado
61 Nicholas II was
the last one
63 Some NFL
blockers
65 Raiders’ org.?
By J. Michael McHugh©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/1710/12/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Thursday, October 12, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
1.  Separated
1.  Rattled 5.  ____, beta, gamma
2.  Nominate6.  ____ stew
3.  Joy7.  Verse
4.  Bronchial disorder SCDEAP
KESHNAPHAAL
SRIHI
NPOATPI
OLETIANZTSAAN
MASATHANSWERS: 1A-Spaced  5A-Alpha  6A-Irish  7A-Stanza
1D-Shaken  2D-Appoint  3D-Elation  4D-Asthma  B-Pink Panther10-13-17
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERby David L. Hoyt
Complete the crossword puzzle by looking at the clues and
unscrambling the answers.  When the puzzle is complete,
unscramble the circled letters to solve the BONUS.How to play
& Hoyt Designs.     All Rights Reserved.2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC  
Send comments to TCA - 435 N. Michigan Ave., Third Floor, Chicago, IL. 60611 or DLHoy@aol.com. tJUMBLE JUMBLE
RTM
1
62
53
74
CLUE: The first “____ ____” movie 
debuted in 1963. BONUS
16 Health Services 20 Events/Notices 23 RidesCoach Mary Wise and the rest 
of the No. 1 Gators volleyball team suffered their ﬁ  rst loss on Saturday, falling in four sets to Kentucky. Read the story, pg. 15. Bye week for Florida football
The Gators will have two weeks to make adjustments after their loss to 
T exas A&M on Saturday. Florida won’t play this weekend and will return to action on Oct. 28 when the team faces No. 3 Georgia in Jacksonville.Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
We’re smack dab in the middle of SEC 
football conference play, and some coaches are already suffering from severe butt sweats from how hot their seats are. Some might also be a little more soothingly warm on the buttocks than you might expect.
Everyone at Florida is talking about pos-
sibly cutting ties with Jim McElwain, but the Gator Nation isn’t the only SEC East fanbase dealing with potential breakups.
An SEC coaching gig is one of the hard-
est jobs to acquire as well as maintain. I’m going to give you my expert college-student analysis about the exact temperature of some of these seats other than Florida’s.
Let 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit stand for 
exactly where a coach wants to be. That’s when his butt is one with the chair.  
Derek Mason – Vanderbilt – 110 
degrees Fahrenheit
After a solid 3-0 start that included a high-
light win against a ranked Kansas State team, the Commodores quickly fell back down to earth.
Four weeks later, Mason’s 
program is still in search of its ﬁ  rst conference win of the sea-son. For a team that was sup-posed to continue growing after ﬁ  nishing 2016 with three SEC wins (the most of Mason’s ten-ure) and a bowl appearance, things aren’t going so hot (un-less you’re talking about Ma-son’s tush on that seat).
Vandy’s most recent loss to Ole Miss hurt 
the most. The Commodores were thrashed for 57 points despite defense being the team’s strong suit.
In the end of it all, it’s Vanderbilt. The 
Commodores weren’t really supposed to make much noise, so Mason’s margin of er-ror is a bit wide.
But he might need to pick up at least a 
couple SEC wins to remain employed head-ing into 2018.
 Butch Jones – Tennessee – 
326 degrees Fahrenheit
The loss to South Carolina on 
Oct. 14 may have been an ex-tra nail in Butch Jones’ already highly secured-by-nails cofﬁ  n.
It hasn’t just been the losses, 
but how the Volunteers have lost. What started with a blown coverage on the last play of the Florida game turned into a seri-ous battle with a still-winless 
UMass team the very next week.
Was Tennessee expected to beat Georgia? 
No, but it shouldn’t have lost to the point where the Bulldogs threw a half-injured QB Jacob Eason in to ﬁ  nish the contest like it’s a minor league baseball rehab game.
Any chance of Jones returning next year 
ended when the Volunteers couldn’t piece to-gether one touchdown drive at home against the Gamecocks. That’s just too much.
Barry Odom – Missouri – 140 degrees Fahrenheit
I believed in you Barry. I really did.Mizzou was my dark-horse SEC team 
heading into the season. I even told people “Watch, you’ll see…you’ll all see” in a really maniacal tone.
In my defense, their offense is nice. Quar-
terback Drew Lock has an NFL-caliber arm, Damarea Crockett is a beast of a running back for a sophomore and J’Mon Moore is legit as an outside receiver.
But the defense is abysmal. Plain and 
simple.
The fewest points the Tigers have given 
up this season is 31. They’ve won one game against an FCS team that still put up 43 points on them.
Mizzou ﬁ  red its defensive coordinator af-
ter Week 2, but an entirely new regime might have to come in to solve those terrible defen-sive issues. 
@SkylerLebron 
slebron@alligator.org
McElwain isn’t the only one feeling heat: Three hot seats in the SEC EastSkyler The Creator / Opinion
Skyler Lebron
Twitter: @SkylerLebronT aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
After Florida’s 19-17 loss to T exas A&M on Saturday, UF coach Jim McElwain now holds a 5-11 record when the Gators’ opponent scores more than 14 points in a given game. 
the second quarter’s end. For the second straight game, UF let its opponent score a touchdown on its ﬁ  rst drive of the second half.
“Unbelievable,” McElwain 
said. “We had a great plan.”
Aside from one Aggies touch-
down, Florida’s defense show-cased its best performance in 
recent memory. The Gators held 
Texas A&M quarterback Kellen 
Mond to 8 of 24 passing and one interception, forcing the Aggies to settle for four ﬁ  eld goals.
“The defense did a pretty 
darned good job in the red area, keeping them out of the end zone,” McElwain said. 
But UF’s offense dragged the 
team down again. The Gators 
only needed 20 points at home 
to win, but that was too much to ask. It has become a habit for this Florida team. In the McElwain 
era, the Gators are 5-11 when 
their opponent scores more than 
14 points. 
“I feel like defense always does 
enough,” defensive end CeCe Jef-ferson said. “I’m a defensive play-er, so that’s just how I feel.”
While Florida fans pinned the 
loss and lack of offense on the coaching staff, Franks took re-sponsibility after the game. 
“Ultimately it’s my job to get 
the offense moving,” the redshirt freshman said. “It’s on me.”
It’s not an offense you want to 
be associated with. The only SEC teams that score fewer points per game are Tennessee and Vander-bilt, both winless in conference play. 
The standings themselves are 
more disheartening. With the loss, Florida cedes second place 
in the SEC East to Kentucky. With 
a game against No. 3 Georgia 
looming after the bye week, a loss to the Bulldogs mathematically eliminates Florida from winning 
the division. 
McElwain didn’t tell fans to 
expect big changes, or say that 
the loss would be formative. He never said UF has to rethink its 
offense or that he has to make a 
change at quarterback. 
He said Texas A&M did a good 
job, and he said he believes in his 
team. 
“It’s hard to have a loss go-
ing into a bye week,” McElwain said, “yet we have an opportunity to work some things this week in practice.”
@MattB_727
mbrannon@alligator.org Gators in free fall as they enter midway point of season
FOOTBALL,  from pg 1MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15  
By Justin Ahlum
Sports Writer
Kentucky’s Kaz Brown went up for the 
ball on the right side of the net. With two 
Gators in front and Allie Monserez crashing 
to aid them, Brown sent the shot toward the 
left side of Florida’s defense and found open 
space, doubling UK’s lead in the third set.
After a short offensive run from UF, Ken-
tucky (16-2, 7-0 SEC) dealt the Gators their 
first loss of the season, closing out the fourth set on an Avery Skinner kill and winning 
the match, 25-20, 25-22, 23-25, 25-16, at the 
O’Connell Center.
On a Sunday afternoon where the Gators’ 
offense struggled, the Wildcats took advan-tage and turned the tables on the No. 1 team 
in the nation. Kentucky’s stellar defense and strong presence at the front of the net gave 
Florida fits, as the Gators hit .200 during the match.
“I’ve got to give Kentucky a ton of credit,” 
sophomore Rachael Kramer said. “To come 
on the road, into our house, guns-a-blazin’ on 
every single swing, they were killing it across 
the net. Their setter was doing a great job be-
ing balanced and setting all their options.”
That setter, freshman Madison Lilley, had 
52 assists, leading all players and nearly dou-bling Monserez’s total (27). Lilley also had four kills and 10 digs in her outing.
Wildcats outside hitter Leah Edmond 
led all players with 18 kills on 40 attempts. 
Brown was also a factor for UK, gathering 11 
kills with a .474 hitting percentage and four 
blocks in the contest.For the Gators, Kramer had a solid after-
noon, converting 15 of her 26 total attempts, while committing only four errors to post a .423 hitting percentage.    
Senior Rhamat Alhassan followed her 20-
kill outing on Friday night against Ole Miss 
with another double-digit game, gathering 
10 kills and six blocks up front. After the match, Alhassan said Kentucky fought hard 
and Florida needed to go “back to the draw-ing board.” Gators coach Mary Wise praised 
Kentucky’s efforts after the game, as well.
“You can see why we voted Kentucky 
number one in the league,” Wise said. “They 
have the most talent in the league. They’re 
very, very good. And now that they’re healthy, I said before they’re a Final Four 
team, I think they can win it all.”
With the first loss of the season under 
their belt, the Gators (14-1, 6-1 SEC) will en-
joy an off day on Monday before hitting the court again to prepare for Alabama (14-7, 2-5 
SEC) and a trip to Tuscaloosa on Friday. The 
Gators will stay in Alabama next weekend 
and travel to Auburn for another SEC match-
up on Sunday.
After Sunday’s match, Wise didn’t seem 
worried but mentioned there are some things to work on.
“It’s so early in the season,” Wise said. 
“We don’t look at it as the end of the season. 
We’re not even at the halfway point. So, lots 
of time left to get better.”
@justinn_case1
jahlum@alligator.orgKentucky comes in ‘guns-a-blazin’ to hand Gators first loss
By Morgan McMullen
Sports Writer
Running in stride with Auburn’s 
back line, Deanne Rose waited for a 
pass from teammate Sarah Troccoli. A perfectly weighted ball rolled onto Rose’s right foot as she took two 
dribbles into the Tigers box.
It was a look 
Rose had scored 
on multiple times for Florida. She 
swung her right foot into the ball, guiding it to the  right side of the 
net.
Sarah Le Beau, 
Auburn’s junior goalkeeper, shuffled 
her feet and dove for the shot, stiff-ing Rose and any other chance No. 10 Florida (11-4, 5-2 SEC) had at scoring in a 1-0 shutout against the Tigers (7-4-3, 4-2-1 SEC) in Auburn, Alabama. 
Le Beau was immaculate on Sun-
day afternoon, stopping seven shots on goal from the Gators offense. Though Rose’s first-half look may have been Florida’s best scoring op-portunity, her teammates continued to probe the Tigers defense to no avail.
Coach Becky Burleigh, who after 
last week’s match with Florida State mentioned learning important les-sons from a tough loss, said her team still isn’t converting on its chances.
“It was a frustrating game be-
cause I actually thought we played quite well here,” Burleigh said. “We had a lot of opportunities, but ulti-mately it came down to them finish-ing an opportunity they had and we 
were not able to convert the oppor-
tunities we had.”
Auburn’s second-half goal came 
nearly at the same spot on the field as Rose’s shot attempt. Tigers senior forward Kristen Dodson chested down a deep ball played from the far sideline from freshman Alyssa Malonson and, much like Rose, 
aimed for the far post. But unlike 
Le Beau, UF goalkeeper Kaylan Marckese wasn’t able to stop the shot, allowing in the lone score of the game.
Dodson’s goal was Auburn’s 
lone shot on target during the entire match. It marked the second time this season Florida allowed just one 
shot on goal. Getting frustrated late 
may have contributed to the Gators’ eventual penalty count, accumulat-ing eight in the second half, com-pared to just three in the first. 
Florida’s loss drops it from sec-
ond in the SEC standings to fourth with three conference games re-maining on the schedule. The Gators 
return home to face Kentucky (7-
10, 2-5 SEC) Thursday night at 6 at James G. Pressly Stadium.
A video posted to floridagators.
com contributed to this report.
@MorganMcMuffin
mmcmullen@alligator.orgTigers hold UF scoreless
By Mari Faiello
Sports Writer
Oliver Crawford played in his 
first match as a UF tennis player over the weekend at the ITA Re-gional Championships in Atlanta. Crawford, a freshman from Spar-
tanburg, South Carolina, made his 
debut a memorable one. He won his first match in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3, against Joan Carles Alcala of Georgia Southern on Saturday. 
“Great to see 
Oliver play his first collegiate matches,” coach 
Bryan Shelton said in a release. “I am sure he will get better with each match he plays.” 
Crawford came to UF as the 
top-ranked recruit in South Caro-lina according to TennisRecruiting.
net, and won both of his singles 
matches and played in two doubles matches in Atlanta.
Crawford’s second win came 
against Giles Hussey of Georgia State, 6-3, 6-2. He advanced to the third round to play Guy Iradukunda of Florida State.
Aside from Crawford, some 
other Gators picked up wins in the main draw of singles play.
Freshman Duarte Vale stole a 
win from Robert Loeb of Georgia in straight sets, 7-6(6), 6-3, advancing past him to Round 3 against Emil Reinberg of UGA. 
Junior McClain Kessler was 
knocked out of the main draw of singles play in the second round 
against Alex Knaff of FSU in a 
three-set match, 4-6, 7-6(17), 6-2.
Senior Chase Perez-Blanco was 
also successful in singles play, de-feating Nils Heimer of South Flori-da, 6-3, 6-0.
In consolation singles play on 
Sunday, freshman Andy Andrade, sophomore Stephen Madonia and 
junior Jordan Belga found success 
in each of their matches, advanc-ing through to the second round of competition.
Andrade defeated Jakub Wojcik 
of USF in a tough two-setter, 7-6(6), 6-2.
Madonia also beat Andrei An-
drukhou of Georgia State in two 
sets, 6-0, 6-3, and Belga topped 
Andrei Duarte of Georgia State 6-2, 6-2, and Eddie Landin of Georgia Southern 6-3, 6-4.
Competition for the Gators re-
sumes on Monday with the con-solation singles quarterfinals. An-drade, Madonia and Belga will take on competition from Georgia State, 
Georgia and Florida State to start off 
Day 4.
Men dominant in doublesDoubles play has been the 
Gators strength so far in the tourna-ment, with UF holding a 5-1 record so far heading into today’s quarter-final round.
On Sunday, the duo of Andrade and Kessler fought hard to defeat Danny Kerznerman and Korey Lovett of Central Florida with a score of 8-7(2).
The pair of Crawford and Perez-
Blanco was also victorious in its match against Terrance Whitehurst and Terrell Whitehurst of FSU, 8-5.
The duo of Belga and Madonia 
also fell to Linus Bergevi and Colter DeCoste of Stetson, 8-5.
Women’s player competes in 
pro tournament
While Florida’s women’s tennis 
team prepares for its own ITA Re-gional Championships tournament, senior Josie Kuhlman is represent-ing the Gators at the Florence Open in South Carolina, a USTA Pro Cir-cuit event.
On Sunday, Kuhlman had a 
strong start claiming her first win of the tournament against Paula Cristina Goncalves of Brazil, 6-2, 1-6, 6-4.
Kuhlman currently holds a ca-
reer record of 92-30 (16-2 SEC) in singles for the Gators up to the 2017 fall season.
Her next match in the tourna-
ment will be on Monday against Chloe Beck of the United States. If Kuhlman wins her second-round match, she will move on to the finals to compete for a qualifying spot. Singles play in the main draw will begin on Tuesday.
@faiello_mari
mfaiello@alligator.org
Freshman debuts in Atlanta eventAlan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gators sophomore Rachael Kramer (right) had a team-high 15 kills in UF’s loss to the Wild-
cats Sunday in the O’Connell Center. “I’ve got to give Kentucky a ton of credit, ” she said. VOLLEYBALL: UK 3, UF 1
SOCCER: AU 1, UF 0 TENNIS
Rose
Crawford
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2017
YOUR CHOICE
• Bacon, Egg & Cheese Biscuit
• Sausage & Egg Biscuit
• County Ham Biscuit
• Steak Biscuit
Combos served with  1 fixin’ & a drink.
LIMITED TIME ONLY
We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!We Serve Breakfast Everyday Starting at 6 a.m.  Proudly Serve breakfast All day!BREAKFAST COMBOS
ALL DAY, EVERY DAY!
3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com3120 SW Archer Rd.     bojangles.com
$4
EACH
T aylour Marks / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive back Joseph Putu looks at the scoreboard during UF's 19-17 loss to T exas A&M on Saturday while fans shine phone ﬂ  ashlights in the stands of The Swamp.
THIS WEEK IN UF SPORTS
MONDA Y
Men's tennis  @ USTA / ITA Regional 
Championship in Atlanta, all day
TUESDA Y
Men's tennis @ USTA / ITA Regional 
Championship in Atlanta, all day
THURSDA Y
Women's tennis @ ITA Southeast Regionals in 
Athens, Georgia, all day
Soccer vs. Kentucky, 6 p.m., SEC Network+