We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaVOLUME 111 ISSUE 85 FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
UF gymnastics travels to 
North Carolina tonight
The Gators are hoping to remain undefeated against the T arheels, pg. 13
Volunteers rebuild home for Gainesville woman 
She was forced out of her dilapidated home, pg. 4
UF professor appointed to Trump committee
He will serve on the National Medal of Science Committee, pg. 3FOLLOW US FOR UPDATESEditorial
Today, the nation’s 45th president will place his hand on the Bible, swear the oath of ofﬁ  ce and assume the presidency. In turn, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, Bo and Sunny Obama will leave the White House. From this day forward, we’ll refer to Barack Obama as our former 
president.
It was an unprecedented election season. Republican can-
didate Donald Trump won the electoral college with 306 votes despite losing the popular vote to Democratic candidate Hill-ary Clinton by 2.9 million votes. He won the presidency de-spite making headlines for demeaning remarks about women and divisive rhetoric against immigrants and Muslims, on top of mocking a disabled reporter.
It’s surreal. And it is not normal.Never before has a president been so poorly prepared for 
the Oval Ofﬁ  ce. And what’s worse, he’s surrounding himself with people who are just as concerning. Former Texas Gov. 
Rick Perry was nominated as secretary of energy despite hav-
ing called for the department’s elimination in the past. Betsy 
DeVos stumbled through her Senate hearing for secretary of education, failing to distinguish proﬁ  ciency from growth. It was a shameful reminder of how easy it is to hand-feed mer-
ited positions to grossly unprepared individuals.
And if there’s one thing many citizens feel right now, it’s 
fear. Fear of a changing America, where Hispanics are expect-
ed to surpass the white majority by 2050. Fear of a president who could pack the Supreme Court with justices who limit our right to gender identity and love. Fear of our loved ones being forced to leave a county they have made their own, simply because of where they were born, who their parents were or what God they pray to. We all seem to fear the next four years.
Fear is dangerous. It can make us impulsive. It can make 
us silent. But it can also raise us up. Today, we’re asking you to embrace fear and create change. This weekend, more than 200,000 are expected to participate in the Women’s March on Washington in protest of incoming President Trump. Thou-sands more are expected to join them at local rallies across the U.S., including one here in Gainesville.
If you feel fear, now is the time to act. Now is the time to 
ﬁ  gure out what values you hold and stand up for them. For our readers in college, whether it be UF or Santa Fe College, you’re probably running into people whose opinions differ from your own. It’s easy to label all who supported Bernie Sanders as socialists and all who voted for Trump as deplo-rables. But before you make judgements about other people, try to learn where they’re coming from.
So in the days, weeks and years going forward, we urge 
you to talk to others, ﬁ  gure out your own values and defend 
them. Hold a sign. March. Call your elected ofﬁ  cials, whose 
numbers we’ve included below. Act in a way so visceral oth-
ers will be forced to hear your voice. Remind us that you de-serve to have your opinion heard. Do not let the cries of others drown out your right to speak.
If you choose not to act, you are letting them win. 
If you choose not to ﬁ  ght, you are forfeiting your rights.
The choice is yours.Stand up for your beliefs 
county ---- should be country?
SEE INAUGURATION,  PAGE 9
On diﬀ  erent sides of history
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Julia Sutton
The UF public relations senior will watch incoming President Donald Trump’s inauguration from the Capi-tol lawn with her father, Robert Sutton, Chairman of the Broward County Republican Executive Committee. Sutton believes those protesting the inauguration are wasting their time, and she doesn’t condone it.Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons
The veteran of the civil rights movement and UF profes-sor will give the keynote speech at Gainesville: City of Re-sistance counter-inauguration protest on the steps of city hall. Simmons believes Donald Trump’s rhetoric is danger-ously regressive and she plans to continuously ﬁ  ght what 
she views as his administration’s hateful policies.  
 By Molly Vossler
Alligator Staff Writer
This morning, Julia Sutton will 
slip on a red skirt speckled with 
white elephants to watch the inau-
guration of the 45th U.S. president.
Sutton will sit on the Capitol 
lawn as incoming President Donald 
Trump is sworn in, an event she’s 
been looking forward to since she 
voted for the real-estate mogul in November. Unlike some of her peers, she is excited to see Trump shake up Washington D.C.
“He’s deﬁ  nitely much different 
than the past Republican candidates we’ve elected,” said the 21-year-old UF public relations senior.
While Sutton watches the in-
coming president take ofﬁ  ce, other Gainesville residents will be watch-ing, too, but not all in admiration. Some will hold signs, parading 
through the streets of D.C. at the Women’s March on Washington, 
while others will express their con-tempt at the new president during protests in Gainesville.
For Sarah Tenbarge, a UF English 
junior, her disdain for Trump and his incoming administration stems from their frequent attacks on immigrants, the LGBTQ+ community, Muslims, 
minority groups and women. On Sat-
urday, she will be one of thousands marching through the streets of the nation’s capital.
“I certainly feel like I’m protesting 
Trump’s inauguration,” the 20-year-old said.
Tembarge will ﬂ  y to North Caro-
lina tonight to meet up with her aunt 
and board a bus to D.C. alongside 
fellow marchers. Although she has no idea what to expect this weekend, and admitted to being a bit nervous, she’s eager to hear others speak out 
against social injustice, she said.
“I’m hoping to get a greater sense of community,” Tenbarge said. “Be-
cause right now, it’s easy to feel re-ally alone in this political climate.”
At 9 p.m. Thursday, Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe issued a state-
ment through his Facebook encour-
aging the protests.
“To all of the GNV women headed 
to D.C.: thank you! I am proud that 
you are representing us by exercising 
your ﬁ  rst amendment rights. I hope the bonds you form last a lifetime and that you bring that passion back to our community to work towards 
positive change. Go get some!”
For Sutton, however, protesting a 
presidency is a waste of time.
“I do understand that everyone 
has a right to say what they want 
and do what they want, but this is an event where everyone needs to get on board and be one for the coun-try,” Sutton said. “Protesting is not 
something that I condone.”Divided nation prepares for 45th pres ident
@FloridaAlligator   @TheAlligator_   @TheAlligatorFlorida elected oﬃ   cials
Sen. Marco Rubio: T allahassee 850-599-9100
Washington D.C. 202-224-3041Sen. Bill Nelson: T allahassee: 850-942-8415Washington D.C. 202-224-5274Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe: 352-334-5000Subscription Rate: Full Year (All Semesters)  $100
The Alligator  ofﬁ  ces are located at 2700 SW 13th St. Classiﬁ  ed advertising can be placed at that 
location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, except for holidays. © Copyright 2017. All 
rights reserved. No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means without the written 
consent of an ofﬁ  cer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student newspaper serving the University of Florida, pub-
lished by a nonproﬁ  t 501 (c)(3) educational organization, Campus Communications Inc., P .O. 
Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-2257. The Alligator  is published Monday through Friday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam periods. During UF summer academic terms The Al-
ligator  is published Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The Alligator is a member of the Newspaper Association of America, National Newspaper As-
sociation, Florida Press Association and Southern University Newspapers.Not ofﬁ  cially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423 VOLUME 111 ISSUE 85
The Alligator strives to be accurate 
and clear in its news reports and editorials. If you ﬁ  nd an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 or email editor@alligator.org. 
Have an event planned?
Add it to  the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
Local Events / News in BriefT oday’s Weather
AMNOONPMNEWSROOM
352-376-4458 •  Fax: 352-376-4467
Editor  Martin Vassolo, mvassolo@alligator.org
Managing Editor / Print  Melissa Gomez, mgomez@alligator.org   
Managing Editor / Online Caitlin Ostroff, costroff@alligator.org
Metro Editor  Catherine Dickson, cdickson@alligator.org
University Editor  Katelyn Newberg, knewberg@alligator.org
Freelance Editor Meryl Kornﬁ  eld, mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org
Opinions Editor  Petrana Radulovic, opinions@alligator.org
 Sports Editor  Ethan Bauer, ebauer@alligator.org  
Assistant Sports Editor   Matt Brannon, mbrannon@alligator.org
alligatorSports.org Editor  Patrick Pinak, ppinak@alligator.org   
Editorial Board  Melissa Gomez, Caitlin Ostroff  
  Petrana Radulovic, Martin Vassolo
Photo Editor Grace King, gking@alligator.org
the Avenue Editor Kirsten Chuba, kchuba@alligator.org
Copy Desk Chief  Amanda Price, Michael Smith, 
  Mary-Lou Watkinson
Copy Editors  David Billig, William Clewis, Mackenzie    
  Duffy, Amy Guzman, Madeline Harlow,   
  David Hoffman, Kaelah Scheff,    
  Alexandria Ng, Elias Selimos
DISPLAY ADVERTISING
352-376-4482 •  800-257-4341 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
 Advertising Director  Shaun O’Connor, 
  soconnor@alligator.org
 Advertising Sales Manager  Joseph Fitzgerald, 
  salesmanager@alligator.org
 Advertising Ofﬁ  ce Manager  Cheryl del Rosario, 
  cdelrosario@alligator.org
 Intern Coordinator  Elaina Silva, intern@alligator.org
 Sales Representatives Kylie Johnson, Hannah Mahdavi,   
  Sydney Pizelman, Ashley Rosser, Eva   
  Sailly, Chris Timson, Nuch Tuntiserira
 Advertising Clerks  Elaina Silva
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
352-373-FIND •  Fax: 352-376-3015
 Classiﬁ  ed Advertising Manager  Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org  
BUSINESS
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
Comptroller  Delia Kradolfer, 
dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper  Cheryl del Rosario, 
cdelrosario@alligator.org
ADMINISTRATION
352-376-4446 •  Fax: 352-376-4556
General Manager  Patricia Carey, tcarey@alligator.org
Assistant General Manager  Shaun O’Connor,
soconnor@alligator.org
 Administrative Manager  Catie Sandlin, csandlin@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant  Lenora McGowan,
  lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus  C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
 IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
 Production Manager  Aubrey Stolzenberg,    
astolzenberg@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager  Christina Cozart, ccozart@alligator.org  
Advertising Production Staff  T aylor Barker, Alexa Kuk
Editorial Production Staff  Megan Ely, Lauren Johnson, 
  Lauren RowlandHIGH  79° LOW  62°
WHAT’S HAPPENING?
Florida Swing Dancing Club
The Florida Swing Dancing Club 
is offering free lessons and danc-es every Monday and Friday. On Friday nights, the organization 
hosts two levels of lessons from 
8 p.m. to 9 p.m. and a social dance from 9 p.m. to midnight at the UF Music Building, Room 121. On Monday nights, the or-ganization hosts two hours of lessons from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and social dancing and prac-tice from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. at 
the Reitz Union Breezeway. For 
more information, find the orga-nization on Facebook.
Now Presenting: GatorNights
Now Presenting: GatorNights is offering a musical-themed event tonight. The event features Musical Karaoke at 10 p.m., 
drawings from a professional 
caricature artist, a Mr. and Mrs. Club Creole Pageant and a Mr. and Mrs. Jamsa Pageant at the Reitz Union. A showing of “Les Miserables” will occur at 8 p.m. and 10:45 p.m. GatorNights is always Friday and always free for UF students with their Gator 
1 Cards. Attendees must be cur-
rent students to participate and are allowed to bring a maximum of one guest to the event.
Florida Museum to host 38th 
Collectors Day on Saturday Collectors from across the re-gion will share their personal 
treasures with Florida Museum 
of Natural History visitors dur-ing the 38th Collectors Day on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. This free event is the mu-seum’s longest-running public program, allowing guests to in-teract with collectors and learn about the context and histori-
cal significance of their collec-
tions. For more information on registration, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/calendar/grid/collectors-day-registration-deadline or call 352-273-2061.
RUB Entertainment Presents: 
Fahim Anwar
Fahim Anwar will be performing 
stand-up comedy in the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Jan. 27 from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. The event is free. Anwar is a come-dian who recently finished sea-son 5 of "Guy Code" for MTV. Currently, Anwar is working on his own one-hour special and 
performs for sold-out comedy 
clubs across the country. Florida Museum welcomes new 
‘Frogs!’ exhibit Jan. 28 Beginning Jan. 28, visitors of the Florida Museum of Natural History will be able to see the 
museum’s new featured exhibit 
“Frogs! A Chorus of Colors.” Guests may view tree frogs, bullfrogs, horned frogs, giant toads and poison dart frogs. The museum will host a pub-lic opening celebration that includes a Froggy 5K on Feb. 11 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. 
The cost is $25 for early regis-
tration through Tuesday or $15 for UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. Late or race-day registration is $30 or $20 for UF students. For more information or to register for the race, visit flmnh.ufl.edu/5K. Admission to “Frogs!” is $8.50 for adults and 
$7.50 for Florida residents and 
seniors, $5 for children aged three to 17 and free to museum members and UF students with a valid Gator 1 Card. 
‘Into the Open: What Animals 
Can Teach Us about Death’On Feb. 1 at 7 p.m. at the 
Millhopper Branch Library, 
Jessica Pierce will speak on how judgments about animal life affect end-of-life care for our animal companions. This event is the fifth in an eight-part speaker series called “Death: Confronting the Great Divide” organized by UF’s Center for 
the Humanities and the Public 
Sphere. For more information, visit humanities.ufl.edu. 
College of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences Career ExpoThe annual College of Agricultural and Life Sciences Career Expo will be from 10 
a.m. to 3 p.m. on Feb. 8 in the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom. Employers representing the food, fiber, natural resources and life sciences sectors will be in attendance. Students can expect to find opportunities for internships and permanent em-ployment as well as represen-
tatives of graduate programs 
and professional schools. All students are encouraged to at-tend. The event is open to UF students and alumni. CALS will host walk-in resume reviews in preparation for the event from 9 a.m. to noon Monday in McCarty Hall D, Room 2025. For 
more information, visit cals.ufl.
edu. 
‘Lights, Camera, Cuba!’ comes 
to University Galleries in Gainesville Cultural institutions are host-ing Bulla Cubana, a Cuban arts and culture festival, from January to March. Cuban mu-ralists, dancers, musicians, authors and academics are among those featured. The 
first event features “Lights, 
Camera, Cuba! Selections from the Efraín Barradas Mexican & Cuban Film Poster Collection” from now until Feb. 10 in the University Gallery and the Gary R. Libby Gallery. All events are free and open to the public. For more information about “Lights, 
Camera, Cuba!,” visit arts.ufl.
edu.
Sex in the Swamp: Condom 
Design Challenge On Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Florida Gym, the Alpha Lambda chapter of Eta Sigma Gamma at UF and the UF Student Health 
Care Center are hosting Sex in 
the Swamp 2017. During the event, Spring Break tips, infor-mation and giveaways, along with a live SEXpert panel, free food and free tank tops (limited quantities available), will be fea-tured. The event will also feature a Condom Design Challenge. 
For more information and to 
register yourself or a team, visit shcc.ufl.edu/2017/01/06/con-dom-design-challenge no later than Jan. 30.
Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club The Talking Gators Toastmasters 
Club meets Tuesdays at 5:45 
p.m. in UF’s Entomology Building, at 1881 Natural Area Dr., Room 1031. Learn about Toastmasters’ program of pub-lic speaking and leadership achievement. For more informa-tion, visit talkinggators.toast-mastersclubs.org or the Talking 
Gators Facebook page.
Got something going on? 
Want to see it in this space? 
Send an email with “What’s Happening” in the subject line to mgomez@alligator.org. To request publication in the next day’s newspaper, please submit 
the event before 5 p.m. Please 
model your submissions af-ter the above events, and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   3 
TURNING THE PAGE
The Alligator Stands Tall
Join former Editors-in-Chief Jason Brown and 
Trey Csar alongside then-Chief News Editor 
Matthew Boedy, Ph.D., for this webinar looking 
back at The Alligator’s fight against the Family Protection Act and how the student newspaper became the sole news organization to challenge the case to the highest court in the land under legal counsel of Thomas Julin, First Amendment attorney and former editor of The Alligator.
- Learn more about events that inspired the 
newsroom to challenge the law and argue its constitutionality.
- Hear firsthand accounts of how staff faced 
threats, vandalism and lost revenue as it continued the battle even after other prominent news organizations dropped out.
- Revisit the newsroom atmosphere and discover 
how these experiences shaped students’ lives before and after graduation.
Wednesday, January 25 at 4  p.m.
freeconferencecall.com/wall/alligatoralumni
Dial-in: (515) 604-9588 Access Code: 815796
Ed Barber
Former General ManagerThomas Julin
First Amendment AttorneyMatthew Boedy
Former Chief News EditorTrey Csar
Former Editor-in-Chief
 By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A UF professor will serve under incoming 
President Donald Trump on the National Med-
al of Science committee.
Pedro Sanchez was appointed by outgoing 
President Barack Obama to the committee, 
which recommends who will receive the Na-
tional Medal of Science, an award that honors achievement in different scientific fields. San-chez, a professor in the Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, said he’s hesitant about how Trump will view the committee’s recom-mendations.
“Talking about science with President Trump is going to be chal-lenging, but we’ll do our best,” he said. “He doesn’t seem to be interested in and respectful of science.”
Though Sanchez said 
he personally doesn’t like Trump, he plans to be 
open-minded and to try to 
work with the president. He 
cannot be removed from the position by the new administration.
Sanchez said he began his three-year term 
on the 12-member committee Jan. 1. Sanchez was notified of the appointment in December after three months of rigorous background checks.
Mark Jamison, a UF business professor and 
director of UF’s Public Utility Research Center, will also play a role in the Trump administra-tion. On Nov. 21, he was appointed as one of two members for Trump’s tech-policy transi-tion team, according to Alligator archives. 
Obama also appointed UF President Kent 
Fuchs to a role that will carry over under the new president. Obama announced his inten-tions to appoint Fuchs as a member of the National Science Board and National Science Foundation in September, according to Alliga-tor archives.
Sanchez has worked to help developing 
countries alleviate poverty by teaching com-munity members how to practice sustainable farming, said his assistant, Maria Ortiz.
“Dr. Sanchez did a tremendous contribu-
tion to the world demonstrating that ‘poor tropical countries’ can be self-sufficient and prosper if the solutions are designed according to their particular environmental and agricul-tural needs,” Ortiz wrote in an email.
While on the committee, Sanchez wants 
to recommend the medal for scientists mak-ing strides in international issues like climate change or cancer research.
“I feel thrilled to have been chosen,” San-
chez said. 
@rellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.org
UF professor, a Trump critic, to serve on his committee
Sanchez
4   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
Max Chesnes / Alligator Staff
DRONE WITH FRIENDS
From right: Hunter Chuchla, a 20-year-old UF applied physiology and kinesiology junior, hovers 
his drone above a group of four students who gathered to watch at the UF architecture building Thursday afternoon. “First I bought the drone, ” Chuchla said, “and then I changed out some of its parts. ”
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
In the days since Gainesville be-
came acquainted with Bernard and 
Louie, two puppies rescued from a South Korean meat farm and trans-ported to the Alachua County Hu-
mane Society, many have fallen in 
love.
The 3- to 4-month-old Jindo-mix 
dogs were rescued in December and 
welcomed to the shelter Monday. 
In the meantime, with the help 
of local media coverage, hundreds 
of calls and messages have poured into the shelter, said Chrissy Sedg-ley, the shelter’s director of opera-tions.
Dozens of visitors have dropped 
by the shelter in hopes of meeting the dogs, and a total of 14 applica-tions have been submitted for their adoption, she said. Applications will be accepted until Monday at noon.
The dogs are lovable, happy and 
soft, Sedgley said. She thinks their playful personality will make them a good fit in any family.
“As soon as they got here, they 
were able to stretch their legs,” she 
said. “They immediately started 
playing and romping around.”
While Sedgley is confident the 
puppies will find a happy home soon, she said she wants to be sure future owners are prepared. 
“Just like with any puppy, 
they’re going to need a lot of atten-tion,” she said.
Gainesville resident Heather 
Hunter said she hopes the dogs will find their way to her home to join her family.
“My kids are both animal lov-
ers,” she said of her children Tra-vis, 3, and Ruby, 2. “Anything that squeaks, crawls or meows — we love them all.”
Sedgley said she’s excited to find 
the dogs homes after all they’ve been through.
“They don’t seem fearful at all,” 
she said. “They don’t seem shy. I think they’re going to be a really good fit for somebody.”After rescue from 
Korean meat farm, puppies to be adopted
SHE MOVED INTO HER 
NEWL Y RENOVATED 
HOUSE LAST WEEK.
By Meryl Kornfield
Alligator Staff Writer
“The porta-potty was my birth-
day present,” Trina Hernandez said, 
barely containing her giddiness.
The 60-year-old Gainesville resi-
dent wasn’t used to having running water. To flush her old toilet, the long-haired, quick-talking brunette would fill up a bucket and pour it down her bowl.
A few years ago, she was forced 
into homelessness after conditions at her house became too expensive to fix: Her floor consisted of a concrete foundation. Rust had worn away her bathtub. Wires hung from a hole in her wall.
She was forced to leave her home 
for a shelter.
But in October, volunteers with 
Rebuilding Together North Central Florida, a nonprofit that renovates unsafe housing, began construction at the home in the 1000 block of NW 55th St.
The organization’s executive di-
rector, R.D. Bonner, said he remem-bered Hernandez’s enthusiasm at the sight of the porta-potty, which would soon be replaced by a func-tional toilet.
“When we first met Trina, she 
was filling a bucket outside, carry-ing it inside and using it to flush the toilet,” he said. “She was so excited when we brought in the porta-potty — imagine when we made her ac-tual toilet functional.”
Last week, Hernandez and her 
dog, Puppy, moved back into the home. By next month, the renova-tions will be complete.
Thomas Eckenrode, the project 
coordinator for Rebuilding Together, said he saw the hazards during in-spections of Hernandez’s home.
“The electrical panel hadn’t been 
updated in probably half a century,” he said. “There was exposed wire everywhere.”
Hernandez said she moved from 
her home to Grace Marketplace, a homeless shelter in Gainesville, a few years ago because she couldn’t afford the cost of renovations. But she was ready to go home. 
Over the summer, Hernandez 
decided to apply to Rebuilding To-gether.
Alachua County Community Sup-
port Services referred Hernandez to the program and she fit the qualifi-cations to become a client, Bonner said. In January alone, 96 people have applied to Rebuilding Together. He predicts 20 to 25 of those homes will get help from the program next year.
Due to shortages in funding and 
volunteers, Rebuilding Together can’t help every person that applies, he said.
Bonner estimates Rebuilding 
Together received $30,000 for the project. He said half of the fund-ing came from a county program that improves housing called SHIP, State Housing Initiative Partnership, and the other half was donated by Lowe’s and Wells Fargo.
Before volunteers could start 
renovating the home, R. Leon Elec-tric Inc and J.W. Freeman Plumbing, LLC won competitive bids to resolve the dangerous electrical and plumb-ing issues, Eckenrode said. Then, volunteers helped repaint and install new flooring, kitchen cabinets and a toilet.
“Everything had to be redone ex-
cept the roof,” he said.
He said Hernandez participated 
in the volunteer days and tried to be part of the renovation process.
“She’s very understanding and so 
positive,” Eckenrode said.
Eckenrode, who organized the 
project’s volunteer days, estimates 85 to 90 volunteers participated. He said groups from Wal-Mart, Lowe’s, Rebuilding Together’s board of di-rectors, Wells Fargo and UF’s chap-ter of the American Society of Civil Engineers volunteered.
Nicole Bohaczyk, vice president 
of the UF group, helped by painting the outside of the house, adding dry-wall in the kitchen and laying down flooring in one of the bedrooms.
She said the other students from 
the group loved working alongside Hernandez.
“I think everyone really enjoyed 
talking to her,” she said. “She kept telling us to take breaks.”
Hernandez said she plans to vol-
unteer with Rebuilding Together once her home is complete.
“I can’t wait until I can go and 
give back at another house,” she said.
 Hernandez said she appreci-
ated the help from volunteers that worked on her home.
“Everyone has just been wonder-
ful and understanding,” she said. “I’m blessed there are truly angels that walk on Earth.”
@merylkornfield
mkornfield@alligator.org
Forced into homelessness, Gainesville woman regains normalcy
Courtesy to the Alligator
Sixty-year-old Trina Hernandez paints during the renovation of her home. Rebuilding T ogether spent about $30,000 on construction.DURING THE CEREMONY, 
A GOLDEN SHOVEL WAS 
USED TO PLANT
 ONE TREE. 
By Romy Ellenbogen
Alligator Staff Writer
A group of about 70 people cel-
ebrated Arbor Day on Thursday by 
planting a ceremonial tree with a golden shovel.
Gainesville celebrated the holiday 
and its 33rd year as a city recognized for being tree-friendly by planting 66 more trees at Evergreen Cemetery, said Anita Spring, the chair of the Arbor Day event.
Gainesville is designated as a Tree 
City USA, a distinction given by the Arbor Day Foundation to cities that meet certain standards of tree friend-
liness, or cities with plans to take 
care of trees, she said. Gainesville is one of the cities that has held the title longest in Florida.
She said Gainesville’s thriving 
tree population beneﬁ  ts the commu-nity.
“We think that provides a large 
number of things to citizens in our 
area besides beauty,” she said.
The annual celebration brought 
together multiple city departments to promote the importance of nature, 
said Bob Woods, the City of Gaines-ville’s communications and market-ing director.
“We have been very fortunate to 
live in a community that respects and understands the value of preserving our environment,” Woods said.
Spring has been involved in plan-
ning Arbor Day events since 1994. At the ceremony, each guest was 
encouraged to use the gold-painted shovel to scoop some of the dirt and help plant the tree, she said. 
“The community really partici-
pates in this,” she said. “Everyone enjoys it.”
@romyellenbogen
rellenbogen@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   5
THEY WANT TO UPLOAD RESO-
LUTIONS TO SG’S WEBSITE THIS 
SPRING.
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
Two friends have spent the past year tak-
ing pictures of more than 3,000 pages of UF Student Government resolutions in an effort to create a database.
When completed, former student senator 
Max Klein and his friend, Keith Saint, will have catalogued 50 years’ worth of SG resolutions as a way to inform others about SG’s history.
“It’s a really important resource for us to 
use,” Klein, 20, said. “I feel like no one knows the history (of SG) at all.” 
The resolutions, proposed by senators to 
share sentiments without mandating action, 
are a way of tracking past Student Senate opin-
ions, the UF political science junior said. The goal is to eventually upload the documents to SG’s website by the end of Spring.
Along with Saint, Klein said he’s spent 
about 70 hours in Smathers Library photo-graphing documents from archives with his Canon Rebel camera.
In September 2015, he posted examples of 
documents to his Facebook page, called UF Student Govtrack Project. In April 2016, he posted a spreadsheet listing about 900 titles of the resolutions he’s collected.
Klein served as a District D senator during 
Summer 2015. In Fall 2015, he switched from Access Party to then-newly formed Impact Party, representing District A as a way “to see student government from both sides,” he said. 
While in Senate, regardless of his party, 
Klein said he was discouraged by the Judiciary Committee when he wanted to draft a resolu-tion about issues beyond the university. 
The committee, which approves proposed 
regulations and bills before they can be voted on in Senate, was reluctant to support contro-versial topics, he said.
Klein once proposed a resolution condemn-
ing states with holidays honoring the Confed-eracy, he said. He said he was told his resolu-tion had to focus on only Florida for it to pass.
After he left Senate, Klein began looking 
through documents and found that past Sen-ates approved contentious legislation on topics like the USSR and LGBTQ+ rights, he said.
“It’s a legacy that we should live up to,” 
Klein said. “It’s not something that should be 
forgotten.”
Klein said he hopes the database will en-
courage students to vote in SG elections.
Precious Ichite, a UF health education and 
behavior junior, said she believes SG is trans-
parent, but a database of documents would make information readily available to students who either don’t know they exist or won’t spend time looking them up.
“We have fast-paced schedules, so we may 
not have time to slow down and look at all of the resources,” the 20-year-old said.
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.orgTwo UF students aim to chronicle 50 years of SG historyHE WAS CARRYING 
A HUNTING RIFLE, A 
BULLET AND THREE 
DEAD SQUIRRELS.
By Meryl Kornﬁ  eld
Alligator Staff Writer
As schoolchildren waited for 
their guardians to pick them up 
Wednesday afternoon, a man walked past Chester Shell El-
ementary School carrying a riﬂ  e, 
a bullet and three dead squirrels.
At about 4:35 p.m., 29-year-old 
Christopher Ryan Starke strolled 
along Southeast 67th Place in 
Hawthorne when calls were made 
reporting that a man was walking near the school with a weapon, according to a police report. He 
was walking 271 feet from the 
school while students were near-
by at an after-school program.
Deputies with the Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Ofﬁ  ce found a man matching the description east 
of the school, and Starke was later 
stopped for a reckless display of 
a ﬁ  rearm, according to the report. 
He was carrying a Rossi 
.22-caliber hunting riﬂ  e in his 
right hand and the squirrels in his 
left hand, according to the report. 
He also had a .22-caliber bullet 
with him.
Starke, a convicted felon, was 
previously arrested by the sher-iff’s ofﬁ  ce and convicted of armed 
robbery and burglary in 2006, ac-
cording to Alachua County Court 
records.
Police arrested Starke on 
charges of carrying a weapon 
near school grounds and posses-
sion of a weapon by a convicted 
felon. Authorities took Starke to Alachua County Jail where he re-mains, as of press time, in lieu of 
a $110,000 bond.
@merylkornﬁ  eld
mkornﬁ  eld@alligator.org ACSO : Man found 
walking near school 
with riﬂ  e, dead squirrels 
Charles Hatcher / Alligator Staff
Selena Patterson, a member of the City of Gainesville Beautiﬁ  cation 
Board, helps her 2-year-old daughter, Scarlet, plant a tree for the City of Gainesville Arbor Day Celebration at the A. Quinn Jones House on Thursday. The Arbor Day celebration had live music, a light lunch and a tree giveaway.
 Gainesville celebrates Arbor DayGainesville resi-
dents plant trees for Arbor DayThe views expressed here are not necessarily those of the Alligator.Column
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITOR
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 150 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/opinions
A Trump presidency is not the end of feminism 
Well, dear reader, today is the day we 
have been insurmountably hoping would never come — Inauguration Day.
For the past 72 days, I have tire-
lessly searched for a glimmer of hope in the alarmingly dim reality of America’s political fu-ture. I think it was around day 15 or so that I found the saving grace I was so desperately hop-ing to discover.
As an aggressively nasty woman, I, like so 
many of my liberal cohorts, was fully prepared to welcome an era of feminism and female empowerment following Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton’s election. As such, I was fully devastated when I woke up Nov. 9 and saw the election results.
However, after about 15 days of licking my wounds and 
surrendering in defeat to the misogynistic miscreant that will soon be leading our nation, I realized abdication of my ethical integrity and acceptance of a desolate fate for the feminist agenda is the absolute last thing this country needs.
As harebrained as it may sound, I’ve come to the re-
alization that Donald Trump’s presidency is not going to hinder the feminist movement. It is going to advance it at the hands of the wildly impassioned — and incredibly nasty — women who are eager to defend it.
The fact that Trump’s policy plans and overall character 
are so far from the feminist agenda is exactly what is going to push it forward. The nasty women of this nation are past their grieving periods and are starting to realize the same thing that I have: This presidency is our call to action.
If Clinton had won the election, so many feminists, in-
cluding myself, would have celebrated for a few days and raved about the monumental victory we had just made, and that would have been the end of it. Sure, we would all have continued to support feminist ideas and to celebrate each piece of our agenda that Clinton pushed forward, but more likely than not, we would have felt no sense of urgency to actively continue our own efforts.
People, in general, become active when they 
sense a problem and when they think there is something they need to change. For a lot of femi-nists, our end-all-be-all was getting a female in the Oval Office. I had some sort of half-baked idea that if we could get a woman in the Oval Of-fice, our job was done and everything would fall into place from there. We’d finally receive equal pay, Planned Parenthood would forever be pro-
tected and judges would start taking rape cases seriously. 
As my far-fetched world of equality slips further away, 
my desire to fight and to defend the feminist agenda only grows stronger. I can see this fire building up in women and men — not only all across America, but all across the world.
Donations to Planned Parenthood have skyrocketed since 
the election. Protests, marches and sit-ins have popped up all over the country. People have utilized social media to get the word out about feminist issues and speak up against Trump’s misanthropic ways. Social media groups like Pant-suit Nation, a group now composed of more than 3 mil-lion people, allow women and men to post their stories and share news of opportunities to further the feminist agenda.
Much to Trump’s dismay, I’m sure his victory in the 
recent presidential election has awoken a feminist revolu-tion in our country. Women, men and even children are already fighting, and they will keep fighting until equality is achieved. 
This is not to say, of course, that a Trump presidency is 
something to look forward to or that if you’re a female, per-son of color or actually anyone other than a white male, you have nothing to worry about — you definitely do. We pretty much all have something to lose from a Trump presidency, but the feminist movement is not going to be stopped.
Abigail Miller is a UF journalism sophomore. Her col-
umn appears on Fridays.Editorial
Darts & Laurels.
We’ll start off with some trivial internet culture stories. Zoo 
Miami humanely euthanized one of their gorillas this week — their 49-year-old matriarch, Josephine, the grandmother of internet-sensation Harambe. Really, 2017? You’re going to hit us with that right off the bat? Please, internet, don’t turn this one into a 6-month-long meme. Thankfully, Josephine was laid to rest peacefully after years of failing health. But we throw a dart at the universe for setting 2017 off with another gorilla death just as we begged it for no more shenanigans.
On a more light-hearted pop culture note, Twitter superstar 
Chrissy Teigen tweeted a picture of her stretch marks Wednes-day, and it instantly rocketed to the top of the internet. Some us-ers thanked her for normalizing a part of human anatomy that’s so often airbrushed away, while others attacked her for, well, we’re not sure for what, but you know how internet trolls are. But here’s a laurel to Teigen for showing us stretch marks are normal, and even Sports Illustrated models have ‘em.
Now, let’s move to a more serious discussion, as the Obama 
administration leaves office and incoming President Donald Trump’s cabinet choices are preparing to be confirmed. For the most part, they are standard picks for their respective positions — some are aligning their views with the future administra-tion’s platform, while others are not. Whether you personally agree with their political alignments is a separate discussion, but at least some of those individuals are qualified for their positions. Unfortunately, the rest of Trump’s picks are argu-ably not qualified, and they appear to completely contradict the purpose of the position they are nominated for, e.g., Secretary of Education nominee Betsy DeVos, who wants to move away from public education and Secretary of Energy nominee Rick Perry, who in 2011 tried to discontinue the Department of En-ergy. So a few heavy-handed darts go to Trump’s unquali-fied cabinet choices. Let’s hope those in the Senate who are qualified will exercise sound judgment.
By now, you’re probably familiar with the protests that have 
been going on across the country as we enter a new presidential term. In a fabulous twist, a group of LGBTQ+ activists held a protest dance party in front of incoming Vice President Mike Pence’s rented house. This so-called “Queer Dance Party at Mike Pence’s House” — the official name on the Facebook event — had more than 200 people in attendance including Pence’s new neighbors from across the street. We bestow a dazzling laurel to the protesters who danced the night away, putting their own spin on our inalienable right to publicly organize.
And finally, we would be remiss if we did not address the 
topic on everyone’s minds today: the inauguration of our 45th president, Donald J. Trump. We bestow a laurel to our new president — but be warned, Mr. President. This laurel is not a trivial piece of decorum. It is not just a prize that one receives on a dreary January morning and then parades around for the next four years. No, this laurel is a carefully handled, heavy crown bearing the fate of more than 300 million people depend-ing on its wearer. Heavy is the head that wears it. Let’s hope you can hold it up.On this January day, perhaps you are huddling by a televi-
sion screen, watching an event in Washington, D.C. Perhaps 
you are protesting by not watching it. Perhaps you’re saying 
that you’re doing the latter, yet peering over your shoulder as 
your roommate watches it on his or her laptop. The nation is abuzz with change right now, so why not turn to something you can depend on? Something like the weekly iteration of ...
Martin Vassolo
EDITORMelissa Gomez
Caitlin Ostroff
MANAGING EDITORSPetrana Radulovic
OPINIONS EDITORAbigail Miller
opinions@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   7
iPhone Screen Repair
5/5c/5s........$45.00  (74.75)
6................$75.00 (103.50)
6+..........$110.00 ($161.00)
352-246-5997
915 NW 13th Street
A lot of knowledge can be packed into 
the tiny text boxes of Twitter — this sentence alone is less than 140 charac-
ters from start to ﬁ  nish. 
The popular social media plat-
form’s length restriction has opened a creative 
window for users to broadcast thoughts in a 
quick sentence or two. But with the presiden-
tial inauguration ahead of us, the black-and-white minutia of the “tweetosphere” is grow-ing increasingly gray. Powerful people are writing some powerful tweets. 
What was once a platform for users to 
dump their feelings onto is quickly becoming a political battleﬁ  eld. Our nation is being shaped by unﬁ  ltered, immediate reaction. When in-
coming President Donald Trump tweets, the 
world reads — and then reacts. 
Regardless of your political stance, the raw 
words coming from the mind of the incoming president are amusing. Never before in history 
has such an inﬂ  uential individual shared his 
ideas on such a simple stage. When you’re pre-paring to lead the free world, there’s evidently no time for editing or reviewing. What the world reads is pure, unadulterated thought vomit.
Finger pointing aside, it is the re-
action to these tweets that’s alarm-ing. A single tweet, a few taps of the keyboard, should not wield the power to make enormous global 
change.
When Trump attacked Lockheed 
Martin on Dec. 12 with a tweet con-
taining only 25 words, the entire company’s shares dropped nearly 2.5 percent. Another 
tweet just 10 days later sent shockwaves of 
worry across the nation with the whispers of the possibility of a nuclear war.
Because Trump has been averse to holding 
routine press conferences — he went months 
without one until snapping the streak last week 
—  media outlets ﬂ  ock to his tweets, often ﬁ  ll-
ing an entire day's news cycle discussing the content of a single post.
Recently, CNN dedicated a story 
to Trump mistakenly tweeting about Ivanka Majic, a digital consultant 
from Britain, instead of his daugh-ter, Ivanka Trump. The story goes on to talk about Majic's newfound 
Twitter followers.
While the tweets of Trump and 
other public ﬁ  gures are a realistic 
glimpse into their basic thought processes, we 
should hardly stress to analyze their meanings. 
Thousands wrongly compete in the race to 
break down the signiﬁ  cance of every word and its repercussions on this country.
What we should instead do is take these 
posts as Twitter intended them to be: brief 
insights on current happenings. With the 
same motives as a heartbroken teenager, an 
important public ﬁ  gure might pick up his or her phone and publish a ﬂ  eeting feeling rather 
than a long-term ideology. 
Don’t read and weep — read and wait. Wait 
to see where a certain mention or thought on Twitter might lead before spiraling into fear. As with every post on social media, take each word with a grain of salt. We live in a world of 
immediate response, but sometimes it’s impor-
tant to take a step back and watch things play out before our very own eyes. 
Untangle yourself from the grip of powerful 
tweets and read through the lens of entertain-
ment. What matters most is not a man’s virtual 
words, but rather his actions and the systems put in place to make them a reality.
I urge you to continue to read all you can 
read from a host of viable sources. Learn from the very sources you disagree with. Use their thoughts and viewpoints to adopt a broader vision of your own. Develop opinions from in-depth reports, interviews and policies and, 
above all else, avoid the trap of tactless tweet-
ing.
Max Chesnes is a UF journalism sopho-
more. His columns appear on Fridays. Untangle yourself from the gripping power of Trump's 140 charactersColumn
Max Chesnes
opinions@alligator.org
“As with every post on social media, take each 
word with a grain of salt.”8   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
By Catherine Dickson
Alligator Staff Writer
By next week, the asbestos in the Reitz 
Union will be gone.
Renovations on the lower level of the stu-
dent union began in October, said Eddie Dan-
iels, executive director of the building. At the 
beginning of renovations, including to the Arts 
& Crafts Center and the Student Government Computer Lab, routine checks found asbestos in the ﬂ  oor and the ceiling. The Computer Lab is open; the Arts & Crafts Center is not.
“With every project we do, we go through 
a process of testing for hazardous materials and determining if they need to be removed,” Daniels said.
He said it wasn’t a surprise that there was 
asbestos in the building because of the mate-rials used in construction during the time it was built.
The removal will cost $25,000, UF spokes-
person Janine Sikes wrote in an email.
The lower level is one of four areas that 
were renovated apart from the $75 million ex-pansion completed last Spring, Daniels said.
The total cost for the lower-level renova-
tions is $885,000, funded with revenues from rents and other business services as well as support from SG, Sikes said.
Daniels said renovations will be completed 
later this semester.
Sarah Nguyen, 18, said she was unaware 
of the asbestos in the building. She thought the hazard would have been removed a long 
time ago.
“Knowing it now, it makes me a little 
scared to go down there. But I’m still gonna 
go down there, it’s just unnerving I guess,” the UF health science freshman said.Asbestos in Reitz to be 
removed by next week
By Paige Fry
Alligator Staff Writer
A single ﬂ  uorescent light in a dark theater 
conveyed a message to the incoming presi-
dent’s agenda: hope.
About 30 people came to the Hippodrome 
State Theatre on Thursday afternoon to par-
ticipate in the nationwide Ghostlight Project, 
a display of community on the eve of the presidential inauguration, said Lauren Warhol Caldwell, the artistic director.
A ghostlight is a single light left on in the-
aters to represent that the stage is always ready for a performance, she said. For the project, the light showed the theater’s accep-tance to people, regardless of background.
Earlier that day, The Hill reported that 
Trump plans to eliminate the National En-dowment for the Arts and National Endow-ment for the Humanities, which fund arts pro-grams in schools.
“We are not against Donald Trump,” 
Caldwell said. “We hope he listens to us.” 
When they ﬁ  lled the theater, Caldwell 
asked everyone to turn on their phone ﬂ  ash-lights to make a beacon around the ghostlight. 
She told the crowd that the theater is a safe 
place. After her speech, she embraced Jessica Hurov, the Hippodrome’s managing director, and broke out in silent tears.
“We are scared,” she said. 
Ariel Reich, a 21-year-old actor and UF 
theatre performance senior, positioned the 
papers everyone wrote around the light for a picture. 
“I think a little bit of light can banish a lot 
of darkness,” she said. 
@paigexfry
pfry@alligator.org  Hippodrome displays unity 
before Trump’s inauguration Sutton, whose father is the chairman of the Bro-
ward County Republican Executive Committee, 
flew to D.C. on Thursday night with her best friend 
to join her family at the inauguration.
She is one of only two conservatives in her 
friend group, and she has felt unfairly attacked by 
Trump opponents in the aftermath of the election, 
she said.
“You guys are literally hating on Trump because 
of how he acts, and how quote-unquote ‘cruel’ he 
is, yet you guys are doing the exact same thing to me,” Sutton said of those who criticize Trump sup-
porters.
Some at UF traveled to D.C. not to protest or 
support the incoming President, but simply to doc-
ument history.
Sixteen students with UF’s Samuel Proctor Oral 
History Program rode in vans for 12 hours to the nation’s capital Wednesday in order to film, broad-
cast and report on the inauguration and Women’s 
March, said Paul Ortiz, the director of the program.
UF’s Center for Gender, Sexualities, and Wom-
en’s Studies Research has collaborated with the program since late November to raise the nearly 
$12,000 needed to send the UF journalism, history, 
political science and gender studies students to D.C.
“The best universities in the country — Stan-
ford, Duke, Columbia — they’re sending their stu-
dents to be in D.C. this weekend. We need to be 
there also,” said Ortiz, a UF history professor. 
The students pushed for the chance to see the 
historic weekend. They taught one another inter-view techniques, how to use video equipment and the history of past inaugurations, said Ortiz, who 
couldn’t join the trip due to scheduling conflicts.
“I wish I could be there,” Ortiz said. “I’m so 
excited for our students, but I have to rely on social 
media just like everyone else.”
UF professor Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons 
won’t be in D.C. this weekend either, but she still plans on protesting, she said. While Trump is be-ing sworn in, she will stand tall on the steps of Gainesville City Hall and speak about staying hope-
ful and taking action during the Trump administra-
tion.
The 72-year-old professor of women and religion, 
Islamic studies and African-American religious tra-
ditions will be the main speaker for Gainesville: 
City of Resistance’s counter inauguration today. 
During the civil rights movement, Simmons 
marched with Martin Luther King Jr. She was im-prisoned, beaten and threatened while fighting 
against Jim Crow laws. 
“What I see (Trump) representing, and many of 
his cabinet selections, is a return to those bad old 
days that I have fought against for 50-plus years,” 
Simmons said. “And I am not going to stand by 
quietly and watch a return to that.”
The battle she first waged more than 50 years 
ago continues as she plans to continuously speak out against discrimination toward African-Ameri-
cans, Latinos, Native Americans and the LGBTQ+ 
community during Trump’s time in office. The best way to resist Trump is to cast an educated vote in 2018, she said. 
“It’s no time to be depressed. It’s no time to feel 
helpless,” Simmons said. “We are not helpless. Hillary Clinton won almost 3 million more votes. We are the majority in the United States — people keep forgetting that.”
@molly_vossler
mvossler@alligator.orgFRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   9
Grace King/ Alligator Staff
Donald Trump pictured during his Oct. 13 campaign rally in Ocala, which drew more than 15,000 
people. 
Credit
Thousands will take part in local marches in conjunction with the Women’s March on Washington. In Florida, 19 marches will take place.
INAUGURATION,  from pg. 1Trump’s presidency will be contested
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Paul Ortiz
The UF professor and director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program raised close to $12,000 to send 16 UF students to document the inaugura-tion. Although Ortiz couldn’t make it to D.C., he’s excited for his students to witness history on their own.
Alan Alvarez / Alligator Staff
Sarah T enbarge
The UF English junior will protest incoming President Donald Trump at the Women’s March on Washington on Saturday. Tenbarge dislikes Trump’s anti-Muslim, anti-woman, anti-LGBTQ+ rhetoric.
“It’s no time to be depressed. It’s no time to feel 
helpless. W e are not helpless.”
Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons
UF professorFRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/classifiedsBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDGet that rent money rolling in. Place an ad 
in the Alligator Classifieds to get your place 
rented out. Call 373-FIND.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$410/BedRoom ● No Deposit! Furnished ● 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-70-1
2 Male Grad students seek one male RM 
who is clean & studious. Windsor Park 3/3, on bus stop, close to UF. Avail 1/15. Pool, hot tub, tennis, gym, $400/mo and 1/3 util. Stephen 407-733-0234.     2-8-17-24-1
Rooms with private baths & walk-in closets. Close to bus stop, UF & Shands. $365/mo + utils per room. Countryside at UF. Free TV, internet, W/D, pool. Call or text 352-215-2204     1-27-17-10-1
Remember to tell them...
"I found it in The Alligator!"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Empty Space? Find your next tenants in the 
Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND to place 
your ad today!
1BR APT $425/mo
Small pet ok. 352-372-1201 or 352-213-3901       4-19-17-70-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 352-215-4990                   12-6-15-167-2
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.TOWNHOUSE FOR RENT 3935 SW 26th Terrace, Unit D. 2BR/1.5BA, W/D hook-ups,  granite countertops in kitchen, tile flrs down -
stairs, fenced backyard. $750/mo, $750 sec dep. Call 352-371-3473, please leave mssg.      1-31-17-19-2
PET’S PARADISE
$390 - $650. No app or pet fee.
1 & 2BR, privacy fenced. SW. 352-331-2099   
1-8-17-20-2
3 Sublease
Don’t get stuck with an extra rent payment. 
Advertise your subleases in the Alligator Classifieds and save yourself some cash. Call 373-FIND.
4 Roommates
I’VE HAD IT WITH YOUR LOUD MUSIC!Is your roommate driving you crazy? Find a replacement in the Alligator Classifieds!
5 Real Estate
Sell your house, condo, acreage, mobile home and much more in the ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIEDS! Reach thousands of possible buyers! Mastercard and Visa accepted over the phone, by fax, email or CHECK OUT PLACING YOUR AD THRU OUR ONLINE AT www.alligator.org. or please call 373-Find (373-3463)
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-19-70-5
6 Furnishings
Got a new couch?. Sell your old one in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND (3463) to place your ad today.BEDROOM SET $300 BRAND NEW5 Piece Bedroom Sets Available in Twin, Full, Queen, & King sizes. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.    4-19-167-6
SECTIONAL SOFA $389NEW in Package w/ warranty. Multiple siz-es, colors, & styles available. Can Deliver. Call 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture       4-19-167-6
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.
 
4-19-167-6
MICROFIBER SOFA & LOVESEAT $400
Brand NEW still packaged w/warranty. Must sell. Can Deliver. 352-377-9846. Gainesville 
Discount Furniture      4-19-167-6
7 Computers
Selling computers, parts, or repair services 
or just looking for that new rig? Look in the Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND for more information.
8 Electronics
Place an ad to sell your old stereo, cell phone, and more in the Electronics Section of the Alligator Classifieds. 373-FIND
9 Bicycles
In the market for a new set of wheels or just looking to add a second to that collection? Want personalized handlebars or a fitted seat? Check in the Alligator Classifieds●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
1-4-16-73-10
 Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925     4-19-73-10
Public Auction Onsite & OnlineSterling Educational MediaThurs, January 26, 10:00 AM5830 NW 163 Street, Miami Lakes, FL33014Book Fulfillment Center consisting of Packaging Equipment: Shrink-wrap ma-chines, Shrink Tunnels, System Packaging Cold Seal Machine, Automatic Sealers, Scanning/Shipping equipment, Conveyor System, Warehouse Equipment, Metal Racking, Pallet Racking, Electric Pickers, Material Handling equipment, Compressors, Generators, Office Furniture, Workstations, IT Equipment, Office Equipment, Computers, Telephone Systems and much more! Over 300+ Lots!
Preview: Day of sale 9am to 10am 
Catalog and photos available atwww.moeckerauctions.com15%-18% BP $100 refundable deposit to register (800) 840-BIDS AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin                              1-20-1-10
SAWMILLS from only $4397.00 -  MAKE & SAVE MONEY with your own bandmill. Cut lumber any dimension. In stock ready to ship! FREE Info/DVD: www.NorwoodSawmills.com 1-800-578-1363 Ext.300N      1-20-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
Alligator Classifieds is the way to get your 2 wheels on the road. Show off your bikes, scooters, and repair services. Call 373-FIND to get your classified in.
4-19-17-70-11★★★ NEW SCOOTERS 4 LESS ★★★
Gainesville’s Scooter Headquarters
1/2 Mile North of UF on 13th!
633 NW 13th Street
336-1271 / NS4L.com
4-19-17-70-11
4-19-17-70-11
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
12 Autos
Unload your lot. Sell your cars through 
Alligator Advertising for cheap. 373-FIND 
or place your ad online at www.alligator.org/classifieds
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ● ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-70-12
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
Sunrise Auto Sales
NO credit check!!Drive home today!!www.sunriseautosale.net352 375 9090                    4-19-70-12
Sunrise Auto RentalEasy to Rent!!!NO credit card required!www.carrentalsunrise.com352-375- 9090                    4-19-70-121For Rent
furnished2For Rent
unfurnished 6 Furnishings 10 For Sale 11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
 1 For Rent: Furnished
 2 For Rent: Unfurnished
 3 Sublease
 4 Roommates
 5 Real Estate 6 Furnishings
 7 Computers
 8 Electronics
 9 Bicycles
 10 For Sale 11 Motorcycles, Mopeds
 12 Autos
 13 Wanted
 14 Help Wanted
 15 Services 16 Health Services
 17 Typing Services
 18 Personals
 19 Connections
 20 Event Notices 21 Entertainment
 22 Tickets
 23 Rides
 24 Pets
 25 Lost & Found
All real estate advertised herein is subject to the Federal Fair Housing Act, which makes it illegal to advertise ‘’any preference, limitation, or discrimination because of color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, or intention to make limitation, or discrimination.’’ We will 
not knowingly accept any advertising for real estate which is in violation of the law. All persons are hereby informed that all dwellings advertised are available on an equal opportunity basis.  •  All employment opportunities advertised herein are subject to the laws which prohibit discrimina -
tion in employment (barring legal exceptions) because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, familial status, age, or any other covered status.  •  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or loss arising from contacts made through the type of advertising that 
is know as “personal” or “connections” whether or not they actually appear under those classifications . We suggest that any reader who responds to that type of advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information.  •  Although this 
newspaper uses great care in accepting or rejecting advertising according to its suitability, we cannot verify that all advertising claims or offers are completely valid in every case and, therefore, cannot assume any responsibility for any injury or loss arising from offers and acceptance of 
offers of goods and/or services through any advertising contained herein.How To Place A Classified Ad:
In Person:
Cash, Check, MC, or Visa
The Alligator Office
2700 SW 13th St.
M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classifieds@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556By Mail:
Call 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
MasterCard, Visa or checks only.
By Phone: (352) 373-FIND
Payment by Visa or MasterCard ONLY. 
M-F, 8am - 4pmWhen Will Your Ad Run?
Ads placed by 4 pm will appear two 
publication days later. Ads may run for any 
length of time and be cancelled at any time. 
Sorry, but there can be no refunds or credits 
for cancelled ads.Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations: Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be given.
Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND with any 
corrections before noon.  THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY.  Corrected ads will be extended one 
day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in 
after the first day will not be further compensated.
Customer error or changes: Changes must be made BEFORE NOON for the next 
day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes. Online:  w/ Visa or MasterCard at www.alligator.org/classifiedFRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   11 
Sun City Auto Sales
Home of $0 down!!NO credit check!!www.sunriseautosale.net352-338- 1999                  4-19-70-12
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
GoAutoBid.comSell or Buy
emailus@goautobid.com              4-19-70-12
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-12
2003 NISSAN MAXIMA
V6, 164k miles. sunroof, new stereo, new 
tires. Well maintained. $3200. 352-359-3499    
1-23-5-12
CARS/TRUCKS WANTED!!!
Sell Your Used or Damaged2000-2016 Vehicle Fast!Running or Not.  Nationwide Free TowingSame Day Pick-Up and Pay AvailableCall 888-689-8647Education & Career Training       1-20-1-12
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk.This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal infor-mation or arranging meetings or investing money.
UF GRAD PAYS MORE
for gold jewelry, scrap gold, Rolex, diamonds, guitars, etc. Top $$$. Get my offer before you sell! Call Jim 376-8090 or 222-80904-19-70-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
352-240-5062 if interested.
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED● EFFECTIVE● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
and soup kitchen located in downtown
Gainesville, and we are looking for help
from volunteers like you.
St. Francis House depends on monetary 
support from individual donors and
community businesses in order to help feed
the homeless and the hungry.
If you are interested in volunteering,
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at (352) 505-3311 ext 4 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks payable to
St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville, FL 32604
www.stfrancishousegnv.org.
CASH FOR CARS & TRUCKSRunning or Not ★ Any Condition
352-771-6191     2-9-17-20-13
14 Help Wanted 
This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to advertis-ing use caution and investigate the sin-cerity of the advertiser before giving out personal information or arranging meet-ings or investing money.
SAY:
"I FOUND IT INTHE ALLIGATOR!"
Live Longer.
Drive Sober.12 Autos 13 Wanted 13 Wanted12   ALLIGATOR    FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
PAID SALES REP
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 15-20 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
What's black and white and read all over??
The Independent florida Alligator!
Be part of the sales team of the
largest college newspaper in the country
by applyintg to be a
ADVERTISING INTERN
If you are a UF or SC student
available to work 10-12 hours a week
this spring, and are eager to gain
valuable sales experience,
stop by the Alligator
2700 SW 13th Street
to fill out an application and
class schedule or email resume to
soconnor@alligator.org
We will contact you for an interview
opportunity to get your career jump-started!
EEO/AA
Students in Accounting, Aviation, Business/
Sales and computer science needed for vari-ous positions. Flexible schedules and com-petitive pay. Join our team! Learn more at www.gleim.com/employment  1-4-16-73-14
GoAutoBid.com, a small start-up company, is looking for a website developer to back-up lead programmer. Must be proficient in PHP, javascript, and jQuery. HTML5 and CSS3 knowledge a bonus. Call 352-375-9090, or  emailus@goautobid.com    4-19-70-14
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f and every other sat). Day and night shifts available. Must own a car. weekly pay $8.50/hr. if interested please call 352-214-0868     1-26-17-15-14
Hiring alarm dispatcher's for weekdays & weekends 2p-10p or 4p-12a. Must be able to pass a background check, have ex-tensive computer and multitasking skills. Applications@cpss.net      2-16-17-30-14AFFORDABLE CAREER TRAINING!ONLINE OR ON CAMPUS.Medical Office, Accounting, IT andAdministrative Certificate Program Choices.
CALL FOR ANSWERS 1-888-535-9909
or CLICK learn.Sctrain.edu      1-20-1-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
6-30-17-173-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
ACUPUNCTURE helps everything!
BC/BS State insurance acceptedMarcywilson.com ½ price forveterans or cancer patientsCall/text 352-284-5937        5-11-17-70-16
Viagra!!52 Pills for Only $99.00Your #1 trusted provider for 10 years.Insured and Guaranteed Delivery.Call Now 1-800-224-0305       1-20-1-16
18 Personals
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ALMIGHTY JEHOVAH GOD,give me Absolute Unwavering, Unmovable, Victorious Faith to Fully Believe On, Trust In The Lord Jesus Christ for Salvation, Eternal Life. www.Christ-is-all.us        1-20-1-19
19 Connections
Want to make a connection?
Place your ad here to look for someone to share a common interest with or for your true love 
20 Events/Notices
IS YOUR BUSINESS, CLUB OR ORGANIZATION HAVING AN EVENT?DO YOU HAVE A SPECIALANNOUNCEMENT? PLACE YOUR AD HERE AND GET IT NOTICED!
How To Fund Your Projects With Bitcoin & Crowdfunding. For More Details Go To ===> www.bitcoinexplosion.info (267) 549-9815     1-23-17-5-20Furry, feathery, scaly...no, not your room-
mate...pets. Find or advertise your pets or 
pet products here in the Pets section of the 
Alligator.
Because Cats
Don't Understand
Abstinence
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Finders Keepers? If you find something, you 
can place a FREE FOUND AD in our lost & found section. Be kind to someone who’s lost what you’ve found. Call 373-FIND.
Designated drivers are the greatestPost Card Marketing System "Secure a second income, not a second job" www.abminfo.com Referred by # 5784 P. Wilson     1-25-17-5-20
21 Entertainment
Get the party started! Place your Entertainment classified today to get people up and about. Call 373-FIND.
Don't forget to tell them:
"I found it in The Alligator!"
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
11-9-167-21
23 Rides
Trying to get to and from somewhere? Want to cut back on that gas bill? Place an ad in the classifieds to find trip arrangements or show off your bus and shuttle service. 373-FINDGRAPHIC DESIGNER - P/T
Local marketing agency looking for a
graphic designer.
Please send resume to
sebastian@dmcreativestudios.com
1-25-10-14
PART TIME MEDICAL OFFICE ASSISTANT Experienced preferred. Multi-tasking & accuracy a must! Email resume toTrc0102@yahoo.com          1-27-17-10-14
Hogan's Great Sandwiches now hiring sand-wich makers/bartenders. No experience necessary. Must have reliable transportation. Apply at 2327 N W 13th street daily between 2:00-5:00pm       1-27-17-7-14
Needed a stable & reliable person long termto sell & set up a wine tasting part time for $10/hr. Hours: Tues 3-4pm, Sat 11-5pm, Sun 12-4pm, Please call Mary for an interview this weekend & next week at 478-550-4140.    1-25-17-5-14
TYPIST / ASSISTANT
Reliable student, 6-10 hrs/wk. Must be accu-
rate typist. Gainesville resident. Leave name 
and number 352-378-9771    1-24-17-3-14
15 Services
Do you have a business that 
provides  a service? Place your ad in the  Services Section of the Alligator Classifieds for as little as $3.00 per day. Call us at 373-FIND.
Affordable Attorney
12 Years Experience Call or Text Sam 24/7 904.600.2683     1-4-16-73-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?Express Training Services now offers a CNA class which can be completed in one week-end.  Perfect for busy college students.   www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   4-19-16-73-15
Horse boarding, $375/mo..  From GV/UF 10 minutes.  Dressage, stadium, x-country, day-time stall, nighttime turnout.  Rider housing available.  Barn Family Program to mitigate board and rent.  Lessons, schooling op-portunities.  For further information, contact Dibbie at Gator Slide Farm, 352-466-3538 or gtrslfrm@aol.com.  Visitors always welcome.    1-31-16-101-15
Need records expunged?Law office in Palm Beach GardensPalm Beach County, FLResponsible LawyerDouglas A. WillisReasonable fee CALL: 800-359-1708     11-21-16-43-15
FLAMING SUBSFresh & Delicious Now Open. 20% Off1122 N Main StGainesville Fl 32601352-376-1210                      1-20-17-1-15
ACROSS
1 Quick
6 Zurich-based
sports org.
10 Dis
13 Metaphorical title
word in a
McCartney-Wonder hit
14 Major
composition
15 Dr Pepper
Museum city
16 Played hooky
from the office?
18 Journalist/author
Larson
19 Telegram period20 Long in the tooth21 Texas-Louisiana
border river
23 “Without 
further __ ... ”
25 Taco toppings26 Was sorry to have
set the alarm?
31 Random selection
32 Give a
halfhearted effort
33 Gratified and
then some
36 Pizzeria staples38 Romantic dining
spot
40 Bush advisor
41 You can skip it43 Piaggio transport45 X or Y preceder
46 Made it through
the Civil War?
49 Lunchbox
container
51 “Wait Wait...
Don’t Tell Me!”
airer
52 Small creek53 Meet at the poker
table
55 Hound sound59 Downwind60 Reached the
2016 Olympicsthe hard way?
63 Joker, for one64 Continental
divide
65 “Buffy” spin-off66 Superhero
symbol
67 They’re fixed
shortly afterbeingintentionallybroken
68 Crystalline stoneDOWN
1 Bench mates?
2 Bump up against3 Little, to Luis4 Rubber stamp
partner
5 Highlight provider6 Barnyard regular7 2001 Apple
debut
8 Lab coat
9 Welcomes
warmly, as a
visitor
10 Ready in a big
way
11 Cupcake cover
12 Uses a fireplace
tool
15 Online workshop
17 The Platters’
genre
22 x or y follower24 Senior, to Junior25 Amulet
26 Emulates
Eminem
27 Meter or liter
28 Revelations29 Plants used to
make tequila
30 Cashed, as a
forged check
34 “... happily __
after”35 Say no to37 Tangled39 Put in one’s two
cents
42 Mrs. Cullen in
StephenieMeyer’s
“Twilight”
44 Venomous snake
47 “I know, right?”48 Sign next to free
samples
49 Hint50 Luau
entertainment
53 Gala giveaways54 “Electric”
swimmers
56 “For that reason
... ”
57 Told a fantastic
story, perhaps
58 North __
61 URL ending
62 Identify on
Facebook
By Debbie Ellerin©2017 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/20/1701/20/17ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:RELEASE DATE– Friday, January 20, 2017
Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
xwordeditor@aol.com
14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted 15 Services 20 Events/Notices 24 PetsFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at @alligatorSports or online atwww.alligator.org/sportsFRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
www.alligator.org/sports
Kunle Fasasi left his home country of Nigeria to run at UF, and he's hoping to make the most of his opportunity this weekend, pg. 16 Florida QB sidelined for spring
Luke Del Rio, who was Florida's original starting quarterback in 2016, will 
miss spring football after undergoing surgery on his throwing shoulder, the 
team announced Thursday. The redshirt junior's absence leaves redshirt freshmen Kyle Trask and Feleipe Franks as UF's spring options under center.By Dylan Dixon
Sports Writer
Delicia Washington’s teammates and 
coaches have recently begun referring to her 
as "WIP," a nickname she originally received from head coach Amanda Butler.
The acronym is short for “work in 
progress,” a cliché phrase frequently used to describe young athletes.
While the nickname might not be extrava-
gant or ﬂ  ashy, it’s a pretty ﬁ  tting representa-tion of Washington’s game, and no one has embraced it more than Washington herself.
“She has owned that completely, loves the 
nickname,” assistant coach Bill Ferrara said. “What she’s done so far as a freshman is phe-nomenal.”
In her ﬁ  rst season at UF, Washington has 
been thrust into the spotlight as a key con-tributor for the Gators, starting 17 of 18 games and averaging 9.8 points. Her 35 total steals is also good for the most among all SEC fresh-men, earning praise and recognition from the rest of the program.
“She’s made a tremendous impact on us,” 
junior forward Haley Lorenzen said. “She’s been a very great asset to this team, and we’re so grateful for her.”
Washington was originally recruited as a 
three-star prospect from Baker County High School and was expected to make most of her contributions off the bench this season.
However, after senior guard Simone West-
brook tore her ACL in August, Washington was suddenly thrown into a starting role and forced to take on a large amount of respon-sibility.
With that responsibility has come an op-
portunity to grow and improve as a basketball player, starting with learning how to properly prepare for game action.
“When she ﬁ  rst got here, she was just this 
unbelievable athletic player that could make plays right away, but she didn’t know how to get ready for a practice or get ready for a game,” Ferrara said. “I think she’s going to have a phenomenal ﬁ  nish to SEC play be-cause she gets that part now.”
Not every part of Washington’s game has 
been ﬂ  awless, however, hence the nickname WIP. Her 57 turnovers and 23 assists gives her the lowest assist-to-turnover ratio among all Florida players at 0.40. Foul trouble has been a concern for the freshman as well.
Washington has committed four fouls in 
six of her last eight games, something she’ll hope to improve on this Sunday when the Gators (9-9, 0-5 SEC) face Georgia (10-8, 2-3 SEC) in Athens.“What I love the most about coaching her 
as her position coach is she’s constantly seek-ing different ways to get better,” Ferrara said. “I don’t want to say she’s a gym rat yet… but she always wants feedback on her game.”
 
@dylanrdixon
ddixon@alligator.org
DELICIA WASHINGTON 
SEASON STATISTICS
• 9.8 points per game
• 5.1 rebounds per game
• 1.9 steals per game
• 45.5 ﬁ  eld goal percentage
• 23.4 minutes per gameBy Lauren Staff
Sports Writer
The Gators entered the 2017 season 
with many unknowns.
How would the team step up and ﬁ  ll  
the huge void left by the four accomplished 
seniors who graduated after last season?
Would the freshman class be able to 
successfully handle the pressure of com-peting at the collegiate level?
And ﬁ  nally, who would emerge as the 
team’s new leader?
Now, two meets and two wins into 
the season, those questions have a clearer answer heading into No. 3 Florida’s meet against North Carolina tonight. In their ﬁ  rst meet at N.C. State, the 
Gators posted a 197.100, the second-highest season-opening team total in the Gators’ 45-year program history.
Last Friday against Kentucky, Florida 
notched a 197.600, its highest ever SEC-opening-meet score.
“The ﬁ  rst two weeks were fantastic,” 
coach Jenny Rowland said. “We went out 
there, we were consistent. The girls looked 
pretty conﬁ  dent. They did everything we asked them to do, they were normal. We 
are still talking about being normal and did 
a great job. ... I couldn’t ask for more right now.”
Junior Kennedy Baker, meanwhile, has 
emerged as the leader for Florida in the all-around, taking home the title in both of the ﬁ  rst two meets after winning the title three times in her ﬁ  rst two years combined.
Her all-around score of 39.575 from the 
meet against the Wildcats on Friday is tied for seventh-highest in the nation.
“It feels really, really good,” Baker said.  
“I think that it has really just built my con-ﬁ  dence up. Obviously the team win is most important, but winning for myself feels re-ally good each meet.”
But freshman Amelia Hundley isn’t too 
far behind her teammate in the event.
In the ﬁ  rst two meets, she has placed 
third in all-around both times and hasn't scored lower than a 9.80 in her ﬁ  rst eight routines.
“Amelia is doing amazing,” Baker said. 
“She’s just gone out and competed really,  New leaders stepping up for UF gymnastics
Grace King / Alligator Staff
Kennedy Baker performs her ﬂ  oor routine on Jan. 13 against Kentucky. She's been Florida's all-around leader this season.
He doesn’t say much.
But what he lacks in volume, he makes up 
for in ability.
He keeps his head down, his eyes on the bas-
ket and — usually — puts the ball in the hole.
KeVaughn Allen has been a mainstay in the scoring 
department for the Florida basketball team this season.
The explosive 6-foot-2 sophomore guard leads the 
No. 19 Gators (14-4, 5-1 SEC) in scoring at 13.2 points per game. In addition, he also leads UF with 35 made three-pointers.
With an ability to slither his way to the basket as well 
as step out for the three ball, Allen has a knack for scor-ing points. 
In bunches.His 21 points under the bright lights of Madison 
Square Garden kept the Gators within striking distance during their battle with then-No. 5 Duke on Dec. 6. 
On Dec. 29, Allen returned to his home state to play 
against Arkansas in the opening of conference play. And despite relentless booing from the 20,355 fans in atten-dance at the infamous Bud Walton Arena, the Little Rock native drilled ﬁ  ve threes and torched the Razorbacks’ de-
fense to the tune of 21 points. 
And who could forget the Tennessee game?
With the Volunteers close to retaking the lead in the 
ﬁ  nal minutes of the game, Allen answered the call, drill-ing a pair of three-pointers to seal the victory for UF, Stay aggressive, 
KeVaughn Allen 
 Despite growing pains, freshman making early impactWOMEN'S BASKETBALLHERE COMES THE BOONE / OPINION
Ray Boone
Twitter: @rboone1994Florida had to replace four seniors
SEE GYMNASTICS,  PAGE 14
SEE COLUMN,  PAGE 14really well. And then off the ﬂ  oor, she is a great 
teammate. She has a lot of energy. She brings a lot of ﬁ  re to this team. And I think that she is doing a great job as a freshman, and we are all really proud of what she is doing.”
And while the team is traveling to Chapel Hill 
on a high note, both the coaches and athletes know they still have a lot to prove.
“I think we are just going to go out, and we 
are going to perform some solid routines,” junior Rachel Slocum said. “I think that we have had a 
really great start to the season, and I can’t wait 
for these next couple meets ahead. But we are just going to stay steady throughout this meet this weekend.”
@lstaff27
lstaff@alligator.org14   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
HARBOR FREI GHT
OFFER V ALID THR OUGH D ECEMB ER 2017
GYMNASTICS,  from pg. 13Slocum: 'W e are going to perform some solid routines'
posting a season-high 23 points in the process.
But since that awe-inspiring performance, 
things have taken a turn for the worst.
Allen scored a combined 16 points in Flor-
ida’s last three games. In those three games, 
he missed all eight of his three-point attempts 
and is 5-for-18 from the ﬁ  eld.
In the Gators’ 57-53 loss to No. 24 South 
Carolina in Columbia on Wednesday night, Allen took three shots in a game that desper-ately needed something similar to a ball actu-ally going through a hoop.
He hit a single free throw — his only point 
of the game. 
Before I continue, I must say there are 
many reasons why Allen’s offense has dete-riorated, and it’s not just from him not taking and making shots. Defenses could be guard-ing him more physically off the ball. There could be double teams. The list goes on.
With that said, Florida is 0-for-3 against 
ranked teams this year (Florida State, now No. 10, was unranked when the two teams 
clashed back in December). For the Gators to 
be a realistic threat to top teams in the post-season, Allen needs to be doing his part.
And that’s scoring the basketball.  Ray Boone is a sports writer. His column 
appears on Fridays. Contact him at rboone@alligator.org or follow him on Twitter @rboone1994.  COLUMN,  from pg. 13
MEET INFORMATION
• What : No. 3 Florida @ North Carolina 
• When : T onight @  7 p.m. 
• How to watch : Broadcasted live on 
FloGymnastics with subscriptionGrace King / Alligator Staff
Amelia Hundley high-ﬁ  ves a teammate during Florida's win over Kentucky. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017   ALLIGATOR   15
By Mark Stine
Sports Writer
 
The UF men’s tennis team 
is heading into the dual season 
ranked No. 11 in the country and 
with high expectations of success.
At first glance, the Gators look 
as if they will feed off the experi-
ence and leadership of upperclass-men such as seniors Elliott Orkin 
and Maxx Lipman and juniors 
Chase Perez-Blanco and Jordan 
Belga.
However, the players with 
the most momentum heading into Saturday’s matchups against Georgia Southern and Kennesaw State are both underclassmen.
Sophomore Alfredo Perez and 
freshman Johannes Ingildsen are a doubles duo that has found success in both singles and doubles play.
The nation’s No. 3 ranked col-
legiate doubles pairing went 8-1 in the Fall. Their only loss came via tiebreak in the second round of the ITA National Indoor Cham-pionships in Flushing, New York, where the pair went on to win the doubles consolation title.
For Ingildsen, Saturday will 
be his first match of team play as well as his first match at the Ring Tennis Complex.
Over the course of the Fall sea-
son, Ingildsen posted an impres-sive 12-4 record in singles play and a 12-2 record in doubles.
And despite his immediate suc-
cess, coach Bryan Shelton knows that a player’s first team match can cause some nerves.
“It’ll be good to see him out 
there and see him try to shake off some of those early season jitters and really start focusing on what he needs to do to be effective out there on the court,” Shelton said. “I think the quicker he can hit his stride out there and relax and really just enjoy battling, the better we’ll all be.”
However, the opposite will be 
expected of Perez.Despite only being a sophomore, 
Perez has already experienced heavy success as a Gator and has garnered high expectations for 2017.
“I think that Alfredo has really 
established himself as one of the top collegiate players in the coun-try in both singles and doubles,” said Shelton. “For him to be one of the main leaders of this team in that regard, it’ll be important for us as a team.”Perez holds a 20-5 (12-2 in the 
SEC) singles record in dual play and 43-13 overall singles record as a Gator. His doubles record in dual play is impressive as well at 14-4 (8-3 in the SEC).
And the Gators will need Perez 
as a leader this season when they face top-10 teams such as No. 1 Virginia, No. 3 Ohio State and No. 6 Georgia.
@mstinejr
mstine@alligator.orgGators underclassmen ready to impress in Spring openerMEN’S TENNIS
By Sean Denison
Sports Writer
Florida’s men’s swimming and diving 
team fell nine points short against Auburn 
a season ago. At the time, coach Gregg 
Troy said that “too many little mistakes” 
accumulated, costing his men’s team the victory. 
This season, the men’s team is looking 
for revenge. 
Saturday, it    — along with the women’s 
team — will be tested against a talented 
Auburn Tigers squad.
Fresh off a loss to the No. 2 Texas Long-
horns last week, the Tigers will also look to avenge their most recent defeat.
Released on Wednesday, the CSCAA/
TYR poll had both the Gators men’s and 
women’s swim teams remain inside the top 
25 at No. 10 and No. 20, respectively. But the Tigers enter this weekend’s competi-tion ranked higher than the Gators, with the men’s team at No. 6 and the women’s 
team at No. 11.
Auburn’s Julie Meynen, who was 
named the SEC Female Swimmer of the 
Week, poses a threat to the Gators wom-en’s team. Last week in Auburn’s loss to Texas, Meynen won the 50 free in 22.75 seconds, barely out-touching her Long-
horns opponent Rebecca Millard by .01 
seconds. She also won the 100 free in 49.89 seconds, out-touching second-place by .09 seconds. Meynen’s victory in the 50 free 
was her fourth of the year.
The Gators men’s team 
will also have its hands 
full this Saturday in Au-burn, Alabama.
Auburn standouts Pe-
ter Holo and Zach Apple had strong performances 
against one of the best 
teams in the nation last 
week in Texas. Holo, one of Auburn’s 
strongest swimmers, won both the 50 free and 100 free, beating out his teammate, Apple, in both events.
The Gators, who haven’t had a meet 
in two weeks, will look to use their fresh arms and legs as an advantage and hope rust hasn’t settled.
@seandenison
sdenison@alligator.orgFlorida swimming looks to carry momentum to AuburnSWIMMING
Meynen
2016 FALL TOURNAMENT RECORDS FOR INGILDSEN AND PEREZ
PLAYER (HEIGHT, WEIGHT)
Johannes Ingildsen (6-4, 170)
Alfredo Perez (6-3, 170)TOURNAMENT SINGLES RECORD
12-4
7-3TOURNAMENT DOUBLES RECORD
12-2
8-1Alligator File Photo
Alfredo Perez returns a ball during Florida’s 6-1 win over Troy on Jan. 17, 2016. 
Alligator File Photo
Coach Bryan Shelton (right) congratulates McClain Kessler in UF’s 2016 win over Troy.
Alligator File Photo
Gregg Troy looks on during UF’s meet against Auburn on Jan. 23, 2016, in Gainesville.
16   ALLIGATOR   FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 2017
By Daniel Smithson 
Sports Writer 
Kunle Fasasi knew if he was to progress in 
his sport, he would have to leave his home in 
Nigeria and become a student-athlete in the United States. 
Fasasi, a sophomore sprinter at UF, said 
when he came back from the African Junior Athletics Championships in 2015 — where he earned a bronze medal as a part of Nigeria’s 4x400 team — he realized that he needed bet-ter facilities and support to take his ability to the next level. 
While he had only begun training for 
competitive sprinting two years earlier, Fasasi said he was living in a country that wasn’t interested in track and ﬁ  eld. 
“Where I came from, it’s not like a really 
sports-promoted environment,” he said. “It’s more like just academics, and you just go about your everyday life.”
As a result, he decided to come to the U.S. 
to speak with recruiters. Coaches from Clem-son, LSU and a few others showed interest in Fasasi, but he said when he got a chance to come to UF, he knew becoming a Gator would give him the best opportunity to improve in his main event — the 400-meters. 
Fasasi made an immediate impact as a 
freshman in 2016. He helped the UF men’s 4x400 relay team to a conference title at the SEC Indoor Championships and to runner-up ﬁ  nishes at both the NCAA Indoor and Outdoor championships. The runner-up ﬁ  nish at the NCAA Outdoor Championship helped Florida win its third NCAA Outdoor Championship since 2012. 
The 20-year-old, who traveled almost 6,000 
miles to go to Florida, said he feels blessed to be there and knows how far he has progressed. However, Fasasi said he doesn’t pay attention to the fact he came from Nigeria anymore. 
“That’s a part of my history, but I’m here 
now,” he said. “I train every day like Ameri-cans and Jamaicans… like the top athletes in the county. I have the facilities available to me to be one of the best athletes.” 
He will see how well the Florida facilities 
and coaches have prepared him this weekend when the Florida track and ﬁ  eld team com-petes at the Hokie Invitational in Blacksburg, Virginia. 
Fasasi, a two-time USTFCCCA Outdoor All-
American in 2016, is scheduled to compete in the men’s 400-meters — his ﬁ  rst 400m race of the season — and will serve as the anchor of the men’s 400-meter relay team. He said he be-lieves he has put in his best each day at prac-tice, which has resulted in his coach trusting in him to be the anchor. 
“It’s an honor, deﬁ  nitely,” Fasasi said. 
At the Hokie Invitational, 
Florida track and ﬁ  eld coach 
Mike Holloway wants Fasasi and others competing to “run a little bit faster” than they did at their meet at Clemson on Jan. 7. 
Holloway said he’s not 
looking for the Gators to be 
their best this weekend. He said he wants the team to be its best in ﬁ  ve weeks at the SEC In-door Championships and “their absolute best” two weeks later at the NCAA Indoor Champi-onships.
“We’re just trying to get better,” said Hol-
loway. “At this time of year, it’s all about pro-gression. It’s all about being patient and just trying to get a little bit better each week.” 
As for Fasasi, as long as his coaches are 
happy with his performance, he said he’ll have no complaints on the way home. 
“I take each day as it comes at practice — 
do what you have to do,” he said. “If you put in your best every day, then it accumulates into a good Fall session or a good season.”
@DanielTSmithson
dsmithson@alligator.org
Nigerian sprinter came to UF searching for opportuni  ties
Courtesy of UAA Communications
Kunle Fasasi gestures during the 2016 NCAA Outdoor Championships in Eugene, Or-egon. Fasasi helped UF capture the title as a member of the second-place 4x400 squad. 
Holloway
